Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2024_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan In Talks On Deal For Apple Credit Card ................................................................................................. 2
          Big Banks To Limit Hours For Young Staffers --- JPMorgan confines weekly hours to 80; Bank of America
          revamps timekeeping ............................................................................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
          Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards......................................................................................................... 6
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganInTalksOnDealForAppleCreditCard                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan In Talks On Deal For Apple Credit Card                         
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Alexander Saeedy                             
          785 words                                                               
          18 September 2024                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase is talking with Apple about taking over the tech company's credit-card program.
          Discussions started earlier this year and have advanced in recent weeks, but a deal could still be months
          away, according to people familiar with the matter. It isn't guaranteed a deal will come together, given key
          details, including the price, are still to be negotiated.               
          Apple and Goldman Sachs, the current issuer of the card, decided to part ways last year on their partnership,
          which includes credit cards and savings accounts.                       
          Since then, Apple has spoken with several potential suitors, including Synchrony Financial and Capital One,
          to gauge their interest in taking over the credit-card program, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Goldman spoke with American Express last year, The Wall Street Journal reported at the time.
          A deal between JPMorgan and Apple would further tie together the U.S.'s biggest bank and one of the largest
          technology companies in the world. JPMorgan already offers its Chase customers deals on Apple products
          and pays the company whenever one of its millions of card customers uses Apple Pay. Landing the deal
          would expand Chase's card business -- already the biggest in the country -- while bringing along a loyal base
          of Apple customers to whom it can pitch more financial products. Apple, meanwhile, needs to find a new
          home for its credit card, which has more than 12 million users, after Goldman decided to abandon its push
          into consumer finance.                                                  
          Whenever a credit-card partnership changes hands, the bank offloading the program and the bank seeking to
          take it on generally have to agree to a transaction price for the existing card balances. With the Apple card
          program, Goldman holds the balances that will have to be sold. But JPMorgan and Apple also have to agree
          on terms and conditions, including the rewards program, offered to the consumers.
          The team at JPMorgan negotiating the deal wants to pay less than the full face value of the roughly $17
          billion in outstanding balances in the Apple credit-card program, the people said. Credit-card portfolios often
          sell at par or for a premium to the total loans, while accounts that have high delinquencies or some other flaw
          can sell at a loss.                                                     
          Apple's current program has both subprime exposure and terms associated with it that could be costly to take
          on for any issuer.                                                      
          Allison Beer, chief executive of the credit-card and connected commerce business at Chase, has been
          leading the bank's efforts to put a value on the Apple program over the past few months, people familiar with
          the matter said. Senior executives at JPMorgan, including CEO Jamie Dimon, have been briefed on the
          continuing negotiations, they said.                                     
          Dimon has said tech companies are increasingly becoming competitors to his business, forcing the bank to
          stay nimble and consider new partnerships.                              
                                                                                  
          "The banking system is not static," Dimon wrote in his letter to shareholders this year. "There are startup
          banks, mergers, successful upstarts and fintech banks, and even Apple, which effectively acts as a bank."
          (Apple works with many banks on Apple Pay and other financial services that it offers to consumers.)
          JPMorgan also wants to do away with key components of the card program, including Apple's requirement
          that all cardholders receive their statement at the beginning of the month, the people said. This unusual billing
          structure created customer-service issues for Goldman and, in turn, contributed to regulatory scrutiny of the
          bank's consumer-lending business.                                       
          Goldman tried more than once to persuade Apple to change the billing date, according to people familiar with
          the matter. Apple has signaled that it is open to making this change for JPMorgan.
          Page 2 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman is actively dealing with several challenges as it works to exit from the consumer sector, including
          limiting its losses.                                                    
          Last week, it disclosed that it expects to incur a roughly $400 million pretax hit on the eventual sale of its
          General Motors' credit-card business and a smaller, unrelated business. Barclays is negotiating a deal to buy
          the GM program, but the British bank has been unwilling to pay the price Goldman originally expected, in
          large part because of losses from highly delinquent borrowers, the Journal reported last week.
          Goldman could be facing a bigger loss when it sells the Apple credit-card program to a new issuer.
                                                                                  
          The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has also been investigating Goldman's credit-card practices. The
          probe, which Goldman disclosed in 2022, is focused on credit-card "account management practices,"
          according to the bank, including how Goldman resolves billing errors and refunds cardholders.
          Document J000000020240918ek9i0000m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BigBanksToLimitHoursForYoungStaffers---JPMorganconfinesweeklyhoursto80;BankofAmericarevampstimekeeping
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Big Banks To Limit Hours For Young Staffers --- JPMorgan confines weekly hours to 80; Bank of
          America revamps timekeeping                                             
          By Alexander Saeedy                                                     
          853 words                                                               
          13 September 2024                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America plan to limit and more closely track young bankers' hours following a
          Wall Street Journal investigation that detailed a dangerous culture of overwork on Wall Street.
          JPMorgan will now cap junior investment bankers' hours at 80 a week in most cases, people familiar with the
          matter said. Meanwhile, Bank of America is implementing a new timekeeping tool that requires junior bankers
          to go into more detail about how their time is spent, other people familiar with the matter said.
          The changes come after the Journal investigation, based on conversations with more than three dozen
          current and former bankers, revealed that junior bankers at Bank of America were routinely instructed to lie
          about their hours to avoid exceeding hourly limits.                     
          The question of how much to work junior employees, whose entry-level salaries can reach $200,000, has
          divided Wall Street for decades. Each year, thousands of young people start entry-level jobs in investment
          banking, attracted by the industry's reputation for turning hard workers into millionaires. But many of them
          said consistent bouts of working long hours are not only mentally grueling but also hazardous to their health.
          The death of a 35-year-old Bank of America associate who had been working 100-hour weeks led to an
          outcry in the industry about employee protections being ignored. Leo Lukenas III had been working on a team
          completing a $2 billion deal. An autopsy found he died of a blood clot that formed in a coronary artery.
          The weekly cap on hours at JPMorgan, a first for the bank, is the same as the New York state limit for hours
          of medical residents. The bank plans to make exceptions in certain cases, such as a live deal.
          Young bankers at JPMorgan already have a protected window from 6 p.m. Friday to noon Saturday and a
          guarantee of one full weekend off every three months. The bank, like most of its peers, has long monitored
          bankers' hours through self-reported time sheets. Young bankers have been known to put in 120 hours a
          week or more in the thick of a time-sensitive project.                  
          JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said in May the bank was asking "what can we learn from"
          Lukenas's death. Senior bankers have been communicating the new guideline to staff in recent weeks, some
          of the people familiar with the matter said.                            
          Bank of America had already capped young bankers' hours, but the Journal found that the guidelines were
          routinely violated and in some cases bosses told direct reports to lie about how much they were working.
          Shortly after the Journal's investigation was published, the bank told employees to alert superiors or the
          human-resources department if they were being pressured to lie about their hours, the Journal reported at the
          time.                                                                   
          In recent days, Bank of America unveiled a new tool in the company's timekeeping software that requires
          U.S.-based junior investment bankers to log their hours daily rather than weekly, people familiar with the
          matter said. They also will be required to detail which deals they are working on when, and which senior
          bankers are overseeing the assignments, the people said. Junior staff also can gauge how much capacity
          they have for more work on a scale from 1 to 4.                         
          The new reporting tool will go live next week, the people said. It was being developed before Lukenas's
          death.                                                                  
          "We successfully piloted this improved technology platform earlier this year to help our team more efficiently
          serve our investment banking clients," a spokesman for the bank said.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The death over a decade ago of a Bank of America intern in London who had logged long hours at the office
          prompted some soul-searching in the industry. But enforcement of protective guidelines put in place by many
          banks has been inconsistent over the years.                             
          At Goldman Sachs, junior bankers famously protested their working conditions in 2021 when the bank's deal
          business was booming. A person close to the bank said Goldman doesn't plan to change its policies in the
          near term but will continue to keep an eye on juniors' hours.           
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Protections for Most Junior                                             
          Bankers at Big Wall Street Banks                                        
                                                                                  
          Bank of America                                                         
          -- Human resources is flagged when hours worked exceed 80 a week, and intervenes after prolonged periods
          above that limit to mandate time off.                                   
                                                                                  
          -- Protected weekend day of no work, with no specific time frame.       
          JPMorgan Chase                                                          
                                                                                  
          -- 80-hour weekly cap on hours with exceptions for certain circumstances, such as a live deal.
          -- "Pencils down" period between 6 p.m. Friday and noon Saturday, with exceptions.
                                                                                  
          -- In the U.S., one protected full weekend off every three months, plus protected holidays with guaranteed
          time off.                                                               
          Goldman Sachs                                                           
                                                                                  
          -- No formal cap on hours worked.                                       
          -- "Protected Saturday" of no work between 9 p.m. Friday and 9 a.m. Sunday, with certain exceptions.
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley                                                          
          -- No formal cap on hours worked.                                       
                                                                                  
          -- No protected weekend time off.                                       
          Document J000000020240913ek9d00014                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ChaseWillBar'PayLater'LoansonItsCards                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          YOUR MONEY ADVISER                                                      
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards                           
          By Ann Carrns                                                           
          1,135 words                                                             
          27 July 2024                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          5                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Financial regulators and consumer advocates frown upon using credit cards to pay off installment loans
          because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into debt.
          JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest credit card issuer, will bar customers from using its credit cards to
          repay increasingly popular ''buy now, pay later'' installment loans.    
          Chase said in an emailed statement that buy now, pay later installment loans ''are a form of credit'' and that
          the bank did ''not generally allow customers to pay for credit products'' with their Chase credit cards.
          Chase has been alerting customers about the change, which takes effect on Oct. 10, and telling them to link a
          new form of payment to the pay later accounts to avoid missed payments and possible late fees. The bank
          declined to say what proportion of its cardholders use third-party pay-later services like Affirm, Afterpay,
          Klarna, PayPal and Sezzle.                                              
          Chase is not the first credit card issuer to make the move. Capital One, the fourth-largest card issuer, barred
          use of its credit cards for pay later loans in late 2020. In an emailed statement, Sarah Strauss, head of
          customer services and strategy at Capital One, said the bank ''encourages its customers to make responsible
          decisions when it comes to debt repayment.'' She added, ''Our longstanding policy is that we do not allow
          customers to pay other forms of debt on Capital One credit cards, including buy now pay later loans.''
          The change at Chase follows the announcement by a federal consumer watchdog agency to regulate the buy
          now, pay later loans as credit cards. It also comes as delinquencies on traditional credit cards are rising,
          causing banks to be more cautious even as they face competition from alternative pay-later lenders.
          Pay later loans, a modern version of layaway plans, are commonly called ''pay in four'' loans because they
          allow shoppers to pay for purchases in four payments, usually over six weeks. Details vary by company, but
          users typically owe no fees or interest if they make their payments on time. (Some pay later lenders may
          charge hefty late fees for missed payments.)                            
          The services are offered online during checkout, as well as in some stores or via mobile apps. Shoppers can
          get quick approval with a cursory credit check. (Some pay later providers also offer more traditional,
          longer-term installment loans that charge interest.)                    
          To participate, shoppers link their pay later account to a payment method, like a debit card, bank account or
          credit card. Payments are usually deducted automatically. In October, just over 9 percent of consumers said
          they had recently used a pay later loan. While that proportion was still relatively low, it was up roughly 40
          percent from two years earlier, according to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
          The practice of using credit cards to pay off the short-term installment loans is frowned upon, both by financial
          regulators and by consumer advocates, because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into
          debt. Shifting the required payments to a credit card means users can end up paying double-digit interest if
          they carry a balance on their credit card instead of paying it in full monthly. (The average interest rate on
          credit cards is around 22 percent.)                                     
          ''It makes no sense to use a credit card to service a buy now, pay later loan,'' said Lauren Saunders,
          associate director of the National Consumer Law Center. ''It defeats the purpose of the loan.'' If users want to
          put as many purchases as possible on a credit card, to earn points or rewards, Ms. Saunders said, they can
          also earn them by paying with the card directly rather than by using a pay later loan first.
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
