                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bond Buyers Focus on Shortages............................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BondBuyersFocusonShortages                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bond Buyers Focus on Shortages                                          
          By Julia-Ambra Verlaine                                                 
          491 words                                                               
          27 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Labor shortages and supply-chain disruptions have become make-or-break factors for some investors
          weighing bets on corporate debt.                                        
          Tom Murphy, portfolio manager and head of global investment-grade credit at Columbia Threadneedle, said
          the asset manager is placing companies in two buckets: those that can offset increased wages, bottlenecks
          and shortages with higher prices, and those that can't without losing business. That has him avoiding
          packaged-goods makers and department stores.                            
          "There is a labor shortage and companies are now paying more for wages. So we think about investing from
          a margin standpoint as opposed to 'Is there inflation, yes or no,' " he said. "The wage piece is a big part of it."
          Debt investors tend to have a different perspective on businesses than stock investors. They typically care
          more about whether a business will generate enough cash to make its interest and principal payments than
          they do about its growth potential. That is because their returns are more or less capped, even if the business
          keeps expanding or increasing its profit, but they can still lose money if the business fails.
          Rick Rieder, head of fixed income at BlackRock Inc., the world's largest asset manager, said labor and supply
          dynamics are now the biggest risks on his radar before selecting which companies to invest in or not. Recent
          reports from FedEx Corp. have changed his more moderate view on inflation.
          On Sept. 21, FedEx cut its financial outlook, saying labor shortages and supply-chain disruptions lifted
          expenses and slowed demand for shipping in the latest quarter. The delivery company said it is raising wages
          to attract more workers and announced shipping rates would go up an average of 5.9% next year across
          most of its services, garnering attention from Wall Street.             
          "My opinion is evolving. I was pretty much in the camp that most inflation is transitory except for shelter and
          still believe that on the major reopening shocks," said Mr. Rieder. "But now supply-chain disruptions, labor
          issues, input costs and wages are slowing the economy, not demand."     
          Swings in the labor market and the pandemic's complications have made analyzing broader trends difficult,
          muddling data, some analysts said. Changes in payrolls, a Labor Department metric Wall Street uses to
          predict hiring trends, have been erratic, compounding uncertainty.      
          Hiring slowed sharply in August, and while U.S. employment has recovered since last April when the
          pandemic shut down businesses across the country, it remains below pre-Covid levels.
                                                                                  
          That leaves some investors looking at smaller scale. Joseph Lind, senior portfolio manager at Neuberger
          Berman Group, said a group of 25 internal analysts put together a survey of around 100 companies in June
          and July to compile forecasts around costs and margins.                 
          Mr. Lind said price increases in commodities are attractive to bond investors because they strengthen
          balance sheets and can prompt upgrades by rating agencies.              
          Document J000000020210927eh9r0001v                                      
                                                                                  
          