                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Top Ranks Overhauled At Bank of America .................................................................................. 2
          Executive Jobs Change Hands As New Guard Climbs Ladder................................................................................ 3
                                                                                  
          Seeking Not Just a Raise, but a Career ................................................................................................................... 5
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming spending boom,
          bankers say .............................................................................................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
          Despite Good Pay, High Finance Loses Its Luster................................................................................................. 10
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TopRanksOverhauledAtBankofAmerica                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Top Ranks Overhauled At Bank of America                    
          By Ben Eisen                                                            
          438 words                                                               
          11 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Bank of America Corp. said Friday it is shaking up its top leadership team, installing new finance, technology
          and legal chiefs and adding three women to its senior ranks.            
          The moves amount to the biggest overhaul of senior management in more than a decade, and they make
          room for a fresh batch of leaders. Two longtime executives announced their retirements last month, and the
          bank said Friday more executives will move into new roles or retire.    
          Chief Executive Brian Moynihan, who has spent more than a decade at the helm, informed the board he
          would like to continue in the top job for years to come, he said in a statement. Still, he has been pressured to
          elevate rising talent on a leadership team that has been remarkably stable since the bank emerged from the
          financial crisis years ago.                                             
          Mr. Moynihan assembled a group of senior leaders to carry the bank through the last crisis, when financial
          firms were in the crosshairs of regulators, investors and the public. But the pandemic-induced economic
          collapse showed that Bank of America and its peers are far sturdier now. In recent years, banks have been
          posting record earnings.                                                
          That has given a number of big banks a chance to test out new leadership. JPMorgan Chase & Co. put two
          CEO contenders in charge of its consumer operation in May. Morgan Stanley set up a four-way race for the
          top spot in May. Citigroup Inc.'s new CEO took over earlier this year.  
          At Bank of America, Alastair Borthwick, who most recently ran commercial banking, will become chief
          financial officer. He will replace Paul Donofrio, who will focus on sustainable finance.
          Aditya Bhasin was named chief technology and information officer, and Tom Scrivener will oversee
          operations. The two collectively fill the position held by Cathy Bessant, who will be a vice chair of global
          strategy, based in Europe.                                              
          Lauren Mogensen will become general counsel, replacing David Leitch, who is retiring. Ms. Mogensen
          previously oversaw compliance and operational risk.                     
                                                                                  
          Holly O'Neill will run retail banking, and Wendy Stewart will oversee commercial banking.
          D. Steve Boland, who previously oversaw retail banking and consumer lending, will be chief administrative
          officer. He replaces Andrea Smith, who will retire at the end of the year.
                                                                                  
          Other longtime leaders will stay in place with the same or additional responsibilities. Andy Sieg remains
          president of Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. Jim DeMare continues to run trading, and Matthew Koder
          stays atop the investment bank. Dean Athanasia, the president of consumer and small business banking, will
          also oversee commercial and business banking.                           
          Document J000000020210911eh9b0002q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ExecutiveJobsChangeHandsAsNewGuardClimbsLadder                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Executive Jobs Change Hands As New Guard Climbs Ladder                  
          By Lananh Nguyen                                                        
          691 words                                                               
          11 September 2021                                                       
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          The nation's second-largest bank promoted several executives, although it's unlikely that any of them will
          replace Brian Moynihan, the chief executive, anytime soon.              
          Bank of America made sweeping changes to the company's leadership Friday that elevated several
          executives, including three women, to senior jobs and all but guaranteed that Brian Moynihan, the chief
          executive, would remain at the helm of the nation's second-largest bank for years to come.
          The company promoted Alastair Borthwick, its current head of commercial banking in New York, to chief
          financial officer. It also gave more responsibilities to Dean Athanasia, who runs the consumer-banking
          division from Boston. Lauren Mogensen was elevated to general counsel.  
          Mr. Moynihan is 61, and the race to succeed him is likely to be a long one. Senior executives being groomed
          for top jobs typically need several years of experience helping to oversee all aspects of a company before
          they are deemed eligible to take the helm.                              
          Mr. Moynihan signaled his intention to stick around: In a letter to staff, he said the new cohort of leaders will
          help him run the bank in accordance with a growth strategy he put in place in 2010 -- when he took the chief
          executive job -- ''through its second decade, with me and with all of you.''
          Mike Mayo, a banking analyst at Wells Fargo, said the changes were welcome, although given Mr.
          Moynihan's plans, ''this might go down as one of the longest bake-offs to be a C.E.O.'' Mr. Mayo said that the
          ''number of chefs in the kitchen at the top'' could create issues, but added that it was ''an opportunity to see
          the ability of the top executives to play well with others.''           
          Succession at Wall Street's biggest banks is being followed closely as a generation of chief executives --
          some of whom have been in their jobs since before the 2008 financial crisis, or shortly after -- approaches
          retirement age. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is 65 and has been in the role since
          2005. JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley have elevated younger executives, prompting more talk of succession.
          Jane Fraser took over as chief executive of Citigroup from Michael Corbat this year, becoming the first
          woman to run an American mega bank.                                     
          The reshuffle at Bank of America comes after key managers who helped steer the firm out of the financial
          crisis decided to retire or move on to jobs that were less focused on day-to-day operations. Anne Finucane,
          the bank's vice chair and one of Wall Street's most powerful women, and Thomas K. Montag, its
          hard-charging chief operating officer, are among those who will retire. 
          Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., was vilified for its role in the mortgage meltdown and paid $76.1
          billion in fines in the decade after the crash, the most among the nation's biggest banks. Mr. Moynihan took
          charge in 2010, restoring profits and leading efforts to rebuild its reputation. During his nearly 12-year tenure,
          Bank of America's stock has risen 165 percent. Mr. Moynihan once joked at a university event that his
          doubters, who said he wouldn't last as the chief executive, should have bought a lot of the company's stock.
          Mr. Mayo admitted he had been one of the naysayers. ''A little less than a decade ago, I thought that Brian
          Moynihan should be fired as C.E.O., but now I think he's one of the best,'' he said.
          Some of the changes were immediate, while others will take place later this year. Among the other moves: D.
          Steve Boland, based in Charlotte, was promoted to chief administrative officer, and Aditya Bhasin was
          appointed chief technology and information officer. Wendy Stewart, who was picked to run commercial
          banking, and Holly O'Neill, who will lead retail banking, will report to Mr. Athanasia. The heads of the
          investment-banking and trading divisions, as well as wealth management, will stay in place.
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Brian Moynihan                                                          
          Document NYTF000020210911eh9b0003f                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SeekingNotJustaRaise,butaCareer                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Seeking Not Just a Raise, but a Career                                  
          By Steve Lohr                                                           
          1,669 words                                                             
          20 August 2021                                                          
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          More low-wage employees want opportunities to grow. Big companies are making more promises to help
          them.                                                                   
          Mark Wray was working at the concession stand of a movie theater when the pandemic lockdowns hit last
          year. The movie theater shut down, and he lost his job.                 
          But instead of looking for another low-wage job, Mr. Wray sought a different path. He found a program
          teaching basic technology and business skills, completed it and landed a job at a fast-growing online
          mortgage lender. He started in March, working in customer service and tech support. He makes about
          $55,000 a year, compared with $17,000 at the movie theater.             
          ''The pandemic, weirdly, was an opportunity,'' said Mr. Wray, 25, who is a high school graduate and lives in
          Charlotte, N.C. ''And this job is a huge steppingstone for me.''        
          People returning to the work force after the pandemic are expecting more from their employers, pushing
          companies to raise pay, give bonuses and improve health care and tuition plans. Paychecks are getting
          bigger. Wages rose strongly in July, up 4 percent from a year earlier, according to the Labor Department. For
          workers in leisure and hospitality businesses, pay increased nearly 10 percent.
          Yet many workers are also seeking something else: a career path, not a dead-end job.
                                                                                  
          In recent months, companies have struggled to fill jobs for tasks like waiting on tables, stocking shelves or
          flipping burgers. Nearly 40 percent of former workers in the nation's hospitality industry say they do not plan
          to go back to jobs in hotels, restaurants or bars, according to a survey by Joblist, an employment search
          engine.                                                                 
          For many workers, the issue is less about bargaining for more money in a tight labor market than about
          finding a job with a brighter future.                                   
          ''People in lower-wage work are saying, 'I'm going to pivot to something better,''' said Stuart Andreason,
          director of the Center for Workforce and Economic Opportunity at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
                                                                                  
          Their demands are already reshaping corporate policies. Major employers of lower-wage hourly workers
          including Walmart, Chipotle and Amazon have announced improvements to their tuition and training
          programs. Even Amazon, which has huge turnover among workers in its warehouses, has started to talk
          more about helping improve its employees' long-term prospects.          
          Some companies are featuring their newfound or heightened commitment to worker development to lure job
          applicants. Employer job postings for positions that do not require four-year degrees included the term
          ''career advancement'' 35 percent more often from March through July than in the same span two years ago,
          according to Emsi Burning Glass, a labor-market analytics firm. ''Training'' was mentioned 32 percent more
          often.                                                                  
          The new emphasis, if lasting and widespread, would be a significant change in corporate behavior.
          Companies have often regarded workers -- except those at the top -- as a cost to be cut instead of an asset
          that would become increasingly valuable with investment. Training programs were trimmed and career
          ladders lowered.                                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          One measure of the higher aspirations of workers is the surge in interest and applications reported by major
          nonprofit organizations, like Year Up, Per Scholas and NPower, with decades of experience training and
          finding good jobs, mainly for underrepresented groups. They are all expanding.
          Mr. Wray is a graduate of Merit America, a newer nonprofit that started in 2018. This year, Merit America is
          on track to reach more than 1,400 students, up from about 500 last year.
          How large the opportunity will be for the striving workers, experts say, may depend on overhauling the hiring
          and promotion practices of corporate America. For example, companies have long used the requirement of a
          four-year college degree as a blunt screening tool for many good-paying jobs. Yet about two-thirds of
          American workers do not have four-year degrees -- and nearly 80 percent of Latino and almost 70 percent of
          Black workers do not.                                                   
          The college-degree filter, workplace experts say, is not a good predictor of success for many jobs.
                                                                                  
          That view has gained far more attention and support in the wake of the calls for social and racial justice after
          the murder of George Floyd last year. Hundreds of companies have pledged to diversify their work forces.
          Whether those pronouncements and commitments will be followed by action remains to be seen.
          But people who have worked in the field of work force development for decades say they see evidence of
          genuine change. In the past, companies often blamed the education system for failing to produce enough
          qualified people of color to hire, said Elyse Rosenblum, founder and managing director of Grads of Life, which
          advises businesses on inclusive hiring practices.                       
          ''But now, companies are increasingly looking internally and taking ownership of this challenge,'' Ms.
          Rosenblum said. ''That's a completely different posture.''              
          The support of business leaders who control budgets and hiring decisions, experts say, is vital.
                                                                                  
          At Bank of America, one executive in that role is David Reilly, who manages technology for its banking and
          markets operations worldwide. Mr. Reilly grew up in London's East End, did not go to college and got his start
          in technology working the night shift in a London computer center, loading data-storage disks and cleaning
          the printer.                                                            
          He showed an aptitude for the work, and one promotion followed another, leading to senior posts at Goldman
          Sachs, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley. He joined Bank of America a decade ago.
          His career, Mr. Reilly said, was ''blessed by people willing to give me a chance.''
                                                                                  
          At Bank of America, Mr. Reilly has helped champion the effort to develop upwardly mobile career paths. Bank
          workers volunteer thousands of hours a year to give talks and mentor recruits without college degrees. The
          effort also involves regular talks with managers about next steps in a career.
          Since 2018, through recruiting partnerships with nonprofits like NPower and Year Up, as well as community
          colleges, the bank has hired more than 10,000 workers from low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.
          Carolina Ferreira had low-paying jobs as a restaurant hostess and as a preschool teacher's assistant before
          she took a four-month program at NPower in basic technology skills. It was enough to land a tech-support
          internship at Bank of America in 2017.                                  
          The internship was followed by a contract job and then a full-time position. She is now a technical support
          analyst on the commodities trading desk, and makes more than $80,000 a year. ''I'm still pretty junior, but this
          has been a big leap for me,'' said Ms. Ferreira, 26, who lives in Queens.
                                                                                  
          Bank of America has close ties with training programs that focus on developing the potential of people like
          Ashantee Franklin.                                                      
          Ms. Franklin, 24, lost her job at a dog day care and walking service after Covid-19 hit last year. She decided
          to make the setback an opportunity, applied to the NPower program and completed the four-month course.
          The dog care service had reopened and Ms. Franklin was back walking dogs when an NPower job-placement
          coordinator called about an opening in an entry-level program at Bank of America. She applied, did well in
          interviews and was accepted. ''I decided my time as a dog handler would come to an end,'' she said.
          Ms. Franklin, who lives in Brooklyn, started her contract job at Bank of America in June as a technology
          business analyst. Her starting salary is about double what she made in past years, which was less than
          $20,000.                                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Fostering upward mobility in corporate America is the goal of OneTen, a coalition of companies committed to
          hiring or promoting one million Black Americans to family-sustaining jobs over the next decade.
          The coalition began in December with three dozen companies and has grown to 54. They are major
          employers, including Accenture, AT&T, American Express, Bank of America, Cisco, Cleveland Clinic, Delta
          Air Lines, IBM, Merck, Target, Verizon and Walmart.                     
          OneTen sees its role as orchestrating the various players in the labor market, sharing best practices and
          measuring outcomes. It is promoting hiring based on skills instead of degrees. The group is also endorsing
          training programs, based on rates of completion and job placement. Two dozen have been approved so far.
          Digital skills are increasingly an important tool across the spectrum of occupations and career paths in
          business -- jobs in sales, marketing, customer service and operations.  
                                                                                  
          Mr. Wray, who works for Better, an online mortgage lender, is an example. In the Merit America program, he
          earned a certificate in tech support. But his current role at Better is really customer service, helping potential
          borrowers navigate the online forms, communicating via live chat.       
          The goal of the technical training at Merit America, Mr. Wray said, was ''to learn enough so you could learn on
          the job.''                                                              
          At Better, his next career steps could be to become a loan consultant, a loan processor or, on a technical
          track, perhaps a network administrator.                                 
                                                                                  
          One thing he is learning about is mortgage loans -- how they work and the many options. ''It's fascinating,''
          Mr. Wray said. ''And now I'm actually on track to afford a house at some point, which I wasn't before.''
          Ashantee Franklin, 24, after being accepted as a business analyst in an entry-level program at Bank of
          America, where she doubled her old salary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDSAY PERRYMAN FOR THE NEW
          YORK TIMES); Mark Wray, 25, who enrolled in a training program after losing his job at a movie theater
          concessions stand. Now he makes $55,000 a year at an online mortgage lender. (B1); Mark Wray at home in
          Charlotte, N.C. He is a graduate of Merit America, a nonprofit that is on track to reach more than 1,400
          students this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALYCEE BYRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)
          Document NYTF000020210820eh8k00032                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessPilesUpRecordUnusedCredit---Increasedcorporatedemandcouldhintatacomingspendingboom,bankerssay
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming
          spending boom, bankers say                                              
          By David Benoit                                                         
          760 words                                                               
          5 August 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Businesses are sitting on record amounts of unused credit from U.S. banks, another quirk in the economic
          recovery that bankers have said could help unleash pent-up spending in the coming months.
          Bank executives said their business clients have in recent months ramped up requests for credit lines that
          can be drawn quickly for spending on inventory, labor or expansions.    
          Companies aren't actually drawing the money into their bank accounts just yet. Businesses are already
          stuffed with cash, and supply-chain issues and labor shortages have crimped their ability to spend it. Those
          unexpected conditions are acting like kinks in the economy's attempts to restart from the dramatic braking in
          2020.                                                                   
          But bankers said the activity in recent months is evidence that businesses are planning to turn on the
          spending spigot. That could help the economy shoot higher.              
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., the two biggest banks in the U.S., at the end of June
          together had nearly $1 trillion in unused commitments to lend to corporate clients. That is up 20% from a year
          ago and a quarterly record at both banks.                               
          "This virtuous circle of hiring workers and meeting customer spending will help drive the economy, and
          hopefully will result in more line usage on our loans," Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan told
          analysts last month.                                                    
          For large banks with a bigger concentration on commercial lending, there has been an average 21% increase
          in unused commercial and industrial credit compared with the prior year, according to a review of available
          filings by Janney Montgomery Scott analysts.                            
                                                                                  
          The Federal Reserve's survey of senior loan officers in July reported that banks were getting more inquiries
          from commercial and industrial borrowers about both new and increased credit lines. The banks also said
          they had loosened their restrictions on the maximum size of the lines.  
          Bank executives said the demand is coming from companies in healthcare, industrial products, food products
          and wholesale supply. They said companies appear to be arming up in hopes they can build back inventory
          quickly if their supply chains can deliver the products they need.      
          For instance, auto dealers starved of inventory are sitting on large unused credit lines, executives at several
          banks said.                                                             
          Bankers view the untapped credit as a sign that their corporate clients are optimistic about the economy's
          trajectory.                                                             
                                                                                  
          In a June survey of commercial-banking clients, JPMorgan found business confidence at its highest level in
          the survey's 11-year history. About 46% of the businesses surveyed said they expect to increase capital
          spending and 38% said they would need to increase their credit, a sharp rise over the past two years.
          "I've never seen anything quite like it," said Jim Glassman, the head economist at JPMorgan's commercial
          bank. He said businesses are planning ambitious spending projects, especially on automation and
          technology.                                                             
          For banks, the unused credit isn't particularly helpful because they can't charge interest on the money until it
          is drawn. With bond markets surging, cash aplenty and interest rates near zero, banks have struggled to
          increase loans and lending profits. That has become a focal point for investors wondering if bank stocks can
          keep rising.                                                            
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The credit lines are something of a green shoot that would typically lead to higher borrowing in the coming
          months, executives said.                                                
          "The good news inside all that is we're actually winning a lot of clients and we're extending facilities at a pace
          beyond where we've been for a bunch of years," PNC Financial Services Group Inc.'s CEO William Demchak
          said on a conference call with analysts. "The problem is they're just not drawing."
          It is still unclear how much of the unused credit will turn into spending. In March 2020, when much of the U.S.
          shut down to slow the spread of Covid-19, businesses raced to draw down their credit lines in an effort to
          stockpile cash. They have continued to add cash in the months since.    
          The lingering memory of the shutdowns might spur businesses to keep their powder dry for some time,
          especially during a surge of new infections from the highly contagious Delta variant.
                                                                                  
          "It may be an evolution," said Christopher Marinac, a bank analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott. "Some of
          this may be building a better toolbox because what we learned from Covid is we have to be prepared."
          Document J000000020210805eh850001q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          DespiteGoodPay,HighFinanceLosesItsLuster                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Despite Good Pay, High Finance Loses Its Luster                         
          By Kate Kelly and Lananh Nguyen                                         
          1,940 words                                                             
          26 July 2021                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          As young professionals re-examine their work-life balance, investment banking is becoming a less popular
          choice despite the money.                                               
          When Vince Iyoriobhe joined Bank of America's investment banking division as a rookie analyst in 2017, he
          planned to stick around just long enough to get the experience needed to pursue his dream career in another
          corner of finance entirely -- private equity.                           
          ''I knew banking was going to be tough,'' Mr. Iyoriobhe, 26, said. But his attitude was: ''I'm going to do it for
          two years and then go on to something else.''                           
          The lure of investment banking is fading for the youngest members of the work force.
                                                                                  
          For decades, investment banking -- the job of advising big companies on their most pressing needs -- was
          one of Wall Street's most prestigious careers, glorified in 1980s best sellers by writers like Tom Wolfe and
          Michael Lewis. Thousands of young hopefuls applied every year for a chance to start careers at Goldman
          Sachs, JPMorgan, Salomon Brothers and other banks as analysts -- entry-level positions that taught aspiring
          financiers how to build financial models and evaluate businesses.       
          They embraced the long hours and grunt work in exchange for the prestige of jobs that eventually paid
          millions. In turn, each analyst class provided banks with a reliable pipeline of talent.
          But new college graduates are increasingly unwilling to put themselves through the strenuous two-year
          analyst program, despite starting pay that can reach $160,000. That's especially so as careers in technology
          and other parts of the finance world promise better hours and more flexibility. The pandemic, which forced
          many to reassess their work-life balance, has only underscored that thinking. Others, like Mr. Iyoriobhe -- who
          put in 90-hour weeks at Bank of America, sometimes going home only to shower -- are willing to do it for the
          minimum time necessary to put it on their résumés. He now works at a private equity firm.
          ''It's kind of like going through boot camp,'' said Ben Chon, a 27-year-old entrepreneur whose YouTube video
          about leaving his job as a health care banker in JPMorgan Chase's San Francisco office, posted in February,
          has garnered more than 100,000 views.                                   
          Mr. Chon said he appreciated all that he had learned as an analyst, but added: ''You don't have control of
          your lifestyle, and you're working even when you don't want to.''       
          The number of applicants to banking analyst programs is hard to track, but business school data, which
          captures a slightly older cohort of potential financiers, shows a broad decline in interest in investment
          banking. Last year, the five top-ranked U.S. business schools sent, on average, 7 percent of graduates from
          their master's of business administration programs into full-time investment banking roles, down from 9
          percent in 2016. The decline was pronounced at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, where
          bankers were 12 percent of the M.B.A. cohort in 2020, compared with more than a fifth of the class a decade
          earlier. Harvard sent just 3 percent of its 2020 class.                 
          In a recent Instagram survey on the page ''Millennial Career Polls,'' conducted by a former investment banker
          who wants to start a platform to help young professionals navigate their careers, 79 percent of the 139
          respondents said they thought banking would be a less desired career in the future than when they had
          joined it. And in February, 13 analysts at Goldman showed their superiors a PowerPoint presentation
          describing brutally long hours and their declining health.              
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ''The sleep deprivation, the treatment by senior bankers, the mental and physical stress ... I've been through
          foster care and this is arguably worse,'' one of the unnamed analysts surveyed in the presentation said.
          ''The industry is not as attractive'' as it once was, said Rob Dicks, a consultant at Accenture who specializes
          in recruiting in financial services. ''Employees want a hybrid model, and the banks are saying no,'' he said,
          referring to a combination of in-person and remote work. ''The message is: 'The bank knows best, we have a
          model for doing this, and you will conform to that model.'''            
          A Culture of Overwork                                                   
                                                                                  
          Although top executives of the biggest banks have recently talked tough about the need for employees to
          return to the office, many are paying heed to the complaints of their youngest workers. Goldman's chief
          executive, David Solomon, said in an earnings call this month that his firm would pay more competitively and
          enhance rewards for performance. Goldman is also enforcing its no-work-on-Saturday rule. JPMorgan is
          rolling out technology to automate some aspects of analysts' work, and recently hired more than 200
          additional junior bankers to ease the pressure in a particularly busy year.
          A first-year investment banking analyst in New York can make as much as $160,000 in a year, including a
          bonus, according to estimates from Wall Street Prep, a company that helps aspiring bankers train for the
          industry. But several firms, including Citigroup, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Barclays, have raised the
          salaries of junior bankers. Credit Suisse paid what it described internally as ''lifestyle bonuses'' of $20,000 to
          younger bankers.                                                        
          Jefferies, another investment bank, even offered Peloton bikes, Apple Watches and other perquisites to thank
          more than 1,100 of its analysts and associates -- the next rank up -- for working hard during the pandemic.
          Jefferies employees ''have gotten us through the hardest period we have experienced in our careers,'' Rich
          Handler, the bank's chief executive, and Brian Friedman, its president, wrote in a July 1 letter to staff and
          clients.                                                                
          Still, banks tend to hew to a work culture fetishized in the 1980s, when Mr. Wolfe's ''The Bonfire of the
          Vanities'' memorialized Wall Street as the home of ''masters of the universe.'' Young analysts worked around
          the clock, picked up coffee and food orders for the team, endured mindless tasks like filing trade tickets, and
          were subjected to pranks and verbal abuse. In exchange, they gained a foothold in one of the most lucrative
          careers available, when new products like bonds backed by mortgages and corporate mergers and
          acquisitions were creating vast profits.                                
          Some of today's heaviest hitters in banking got their start in that heyday, including John Waldron, the
          president of Goldman Sachs; Sharon Yeshaya, Morgan Stanley's new chief financial officer; and Carlos
          Hernandez, executive chair of investment and corporate banking at JPMorgan.
          Banks lost much of their allure after the 2008 financial crisis, just as Silicon Valley was taking off, and private
          equity firms morphed from small partnerships to asset management behemoths. The newer career options
          promised potentially quicker and bigger payouts, better hours, lofty corporate missions and perks like taking
          pets to the office. To young graduates, banking analyst roles appeared too grinding to be worth the effort, at
          least over the long term.                                               
          In recent years, recruiters for giant private equity firms like Carlyle and Blackstone, which manage billions of
          dollars for clients and also buy up companies, began wooing analysts even before they started their jobs.
          Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, said that wasn't necessarily a bad thing. ''They're
          very talented kids, especially around the investment banking arena,'' he told Bloomberg TV this month. ''And
          there's a lot of offers from private equity and other things that we're training them for our clients, and that's
          OK, too.''                                                              
          And there's the pull of Silicon Valley.                                 
          ''The technology sector has just completely changed the game,'' said Jamie Lee, 37, who worked in banking
          before starting a venture-capital firm this year. ''The opportunity cost is simply too high to be sticking around
          in a job where you're not getting the treatment that you want.''        
          Mr. Lee's father, the JPMorgan banker Jimmy Lee, was for decades one of the best-known players in his
          field, advising companies like Facebook and General Motors before he died in 2015. But when the younger
          Mr. Lee was finishing college in the mid-2000s, his father urged him to avoid the analyst programs.
          ''He said, 'Honestly, J, the way that I've seen that we work these kids, I'm not sure that I want that for you,'''
          Mr. Lee recalled.                                                       
          It's Not All About the Money                                            
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          More compensation may not be enough for lots of young workers, for whom the pandemic only highlighted
          the less palatable aspects of investment banking -- even as other careers dangled more appealing
          work-from-home policies.                                                
          Armen Panossian, a rising senior at Rutgers University, is interning in the logistics division of the energy
          company BP and hoping to land a similar full-time role after college. He said the pandemic was part of his
          motivation for pursuing a more 9-to-5 job rooted in finance.            
          ''I think a lot of people rediscovered the importance of mental health,'' Mr. Panossian, 21, said.
                                                                                  
          Eden Luvishis, a 20-year-old student of finance, computer science and math at the Stevens Institute of
          Technology in Hoboken, N.J., wants to work in fintech but would consider becoming an engineer at a major
          bank -- a career that could marry her interest in finance with a more predictable way of working.
          ''I was never so interested in traditional banking jobs,'' she said. ''For me it was always more of the quant
          side,'' meaning roles involving quantitative analysis. ''I really love math.''
          Before graduating from Mount Holyoke College in 2016, Areeba Kamal worked for a summer as a trading
          intern handling complex bond products at Bank of America's Midtown Manhattan tower. She arrived around
          8:30 a.m. and often stayed until 10:30 p.m., trying to learn the intricacies of her product. She sent money to
          her family in Pakistan.                                                 
          ''If you're an international student, early on you realize your two options are finance and tech,'' said Ms.
          Kamal, 29, noting that those fields offer the most pay and help with work visas.
                                                                                  
          But after that summer in finance, she gravitated toward tech. ''I don't want to work 14 to 15 hours a day on
          something I don't care about because it pays a ridiculous amount of money,'' Ms. Kamal said. She now works
          for Apple.                                                              
          Still, not everyone is down on banking. Herby Dieujuste, 25, who worked one summer for JPMorgan's private
          bank and did a stint as a TD Bank teller, is studying for one of the required licenses for starting bankers while
          interviewing for investment banking positions. A longtime basketball player, he said it was unsurprising that
          the banking industry would treat its rookies as dismissively as a sports team might -- until they proved
          themselves.                                                             
          ''I want to be somewhere where I know I can be for a decade or two, and I always saw finance as that kind of
          industry,'' he said.                                                    
          Vince Iyoriobhe put in 90-hour weeks for an analyst program at Bank of America to land a job in private
          equity. ''I knew banking was going to be tough,'' he said. But he aimed ''to do it for two years and then go on
          to something else.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY AN RONG XU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Eden Luvishis,
          left, said she was interested in finance but not ''traditional banking jobs.'' Herby Dieujuste is still aiming for a
          job in investment banking. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEENAH MOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ELIANEL
          CLINTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)                                    
          Document NYTF000020210727eh7q0000g                                      
          