                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S. IPOs Modernize On Digital Platform ................................................................................................................ 2
          JPMorgan to Acquire Owner Of Zagat Restaurant Guide ........................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- JPMorgan Wins Control Of China Unit ........................................................................................... 5
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming spending boom,
          bankers say .............................................................................................................................................................. 6
                                                                                  
          Barclays Overtakes Credit Suisse With Investment Bank........................................................................................ 8
          Dow, S&P, Nasdaq Notch Records........................................................................................................................ 10
                                                                                  
          FICO Sees Its Hold On Credit Slipping .................................................................................................................. 12
          Wall Street's New Rivalry: Who Can See the Most People in Person --- Dealmakers get back on the road, and
          JPMorgan awards points for meetings ................................................................................................................... 14
                                                                                  
          Wall Street Split on Forcing Bankers to Return to Office ....................................................................................... 16
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S.IPOsModernizeOnDigitalPlatform                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S. IPOs Modernize On Digital Platform                                 
          By Corrie Driebusch                                                     
          676 words                                                               
          24 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A new technology platform backed by the biggest U.S. banks and money managers is aiming to bring the
          IPO market into the 21st century.                                       
          The syndicate desk -- a longtime fixture at banks across Wall Street where IPOs and other large stock sales
          are priced and allocated to investors -- has long clung to traditional ways of doing business like phone orders
          and scribbled pieces of paper, even as other businesses go digital.     
          Capital Markets Gateway LLC has set out to change that. Backed by Franklin Templeton, Fidelity
          Investments, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, among others, CMG
          was launched in 2017 by former bankers at Robert W. Baird & Co.         
          Its platform currently provides data and analytics on follow-on stock sales, block trades and initial public
          offerings, as well as a list of who the underwriters are for each offering. Later this year, the firm plans to
          expand its offering to enable investors to place orders for IPOs and other equity-capital-markets deals on the
          computer rather than doing so verbally over the phone, according to Chief Executive and co-founder Greg
          Ingram, who previously ran ECM at Baird.                                
          When the system is up and running, buy-side firms -- of which nearly 100 are signed up -- will be able to see
          what deals are pricing when, what the terms are and digitally enter their orders with lead bankers, so long as
          they have an existing relationship with them.                           
          Once IPOs and other offerings are priced, instead of waiting until the following morning to learn via a phone
          call if they received any allocation, fund managers can find out electronically that same evening. They also
          can see over the platform a breakdown of the commissions owed.          
          (Over the last year or so, Goldman, Morgan Stanley and others have launched their own direct-order entry
          systems to facilitate some IPOs, but they are bank-specific.)           
          Whether the new platform works and -- perhaps a bigger if -- whether IPO-market players ultimately prove
          willing to change the way they have done business for years, remains to be seen.
                                                                                  
          But everyone agrees, the system is ripe for improvement.                
          Ben Batory, head of Franklin Equity Group Trading at Franklin Templeton, said for decades he and his team
          have kept track of how many shares they asked for in IPOs -- as well as how many they received and at what
          price -- on loose sheets of paper.                                      
          He and his counterparts at other firms talk of calling multiple bankers on a deal to make sure their orders are
          recorded correctly. And then they wait.                                 
                                                                                  
          The morning after an IPO prices, a banker calls them, tells them how many shares they got, at what price,
          and what percentage of fees they owe to each of the dozen or so underwriters. It is up to Mr. Batory, or
          someone in his shoes, to keep track of it all.                          
          "All these things are ripe for error," he said. "There can be five deals a day, and you need to get the amount
          right, get the commission right, and it's all chicken scratch on a piece of paper on my desk. It's incredibly
          challenging."                                                           
          This year -- the busiest ever for U.S.-listed IPOs and equity capital markets as a whole -- has put the problem
          in sharp relief. Traditional U.S.-listed IPOs, not including special-purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs,
          have raised roughly $110 billion, surpassing every other full year in Dealogic's records, while more than $480
          billion has changed hands in ECM deals.                                 
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          About 20 IPOs a week have priced on average; some weeks that number has surpassed 40.
          "It used to be that fund managers looked at IPOs and follow-ons," said Michael Wilcox, another CMG
          co-founder who hails from Baird. "Now they are looking at IPOs, follow-ons, PIPEs [private investment in
          public equity], SPACs and crossover investments. The only way to truly be able to focus on the investment
          decision is to utilize technology."                                     
          Document J000000020210924eh9o0003x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgantoAcquireOwnerOfZagatRestaurantGuide                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan to Acquire Owner Of Zagat Restaurant Guide                     
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Benjamin Mullin                              
          328 words                                                               
          10 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          America's biggest bank is buying the company behind the Zagat brand.    
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. said on Thursday that it has reached a deal to acquire the Infatuation, which owns
          websites and apps that guide diners to eat like locals in cities around the world.
          The company also hosts a biannual food festival, Eeeeeatscon, where restaurants serve food in a stadium
          while musicians and speakers entertain attendees.                       
          JPMorgan is buying all of the Infatuation's business, including the decadesold restaurant brand Zagat.
                                                                                  
          The Infatuation purchased Zagat from Alphabet Inc.'s Google for an undisclosed amount in 2018, the same
          year it raised $30 million from WndrCo, a technology and media investment firm co-founded by Hollywood
          mogul Jeffrey Katzenberg.                                               
          Banks don't usually buy media companies. But JPMorgan has made a push to attract big spenders who like
          to travel and dine out, particularly through credit-card rewards. Last year, the bank rolled out Chase Dining in
          its Ultimate Rewards portal, which gives certain cardholders access to hard-to-get dining reservations and
          other perks.                                                            
          Sapphire Reserve and Preferred cardholders get access to virtual events with chefs, mixologists and
          restaurateurs.                                                          
          Founded in 2009 by record executives Chris Stang and Andrew Steinthal, the Infatuation has grown from a
          scrappy review site known for its branded Instagram hashtag ("#Eeeeeats") to a global taste maker in the
          world of cuisine.                                                       
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan plans to give some of its customers, including credit-card holders, special access to the
          Infatuation's curated experiences, like Eeeeeatscon, and to certain content on its website.
          Mr. Stang will continue to run the business, which will operate as a separate brand within the bank.
          The Infatuation doesn't disclose its finances, including whether it is profitable.
                                                                                  
          The company was exploring options including raising funds in recent months, according to a person familiar
          with the matter, and ultimately opted for an outright sale of the business.
          Document J000000020210910eh9a0002x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---JPMorganWinsControlOfChinaUnit                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- JPMorgan Wins Control Of China Unit                        
          By James T. Areddy                                                      
          119 words                                                               
          7 August 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Friday it was granted permission to take full control of a securities business in
          China, a first for an international firm and a continuation of financial-market liberalization by Beijing at a time
          of waning confidence in its markets.                                    
          After years of slow-walking promises to allow access to its financial markets by Wall Street giants, China has
          loosened rules to give firms more opportunity to trade securities in the country and build investor bases.
          The fresh market access also follows a slump in foreign investor sentiment about China's financial markets,
          following regulatory pressure from Beijing on various sectors including technology and education.
          Document J000000020210807eh870003x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessPilesUpRecordUnusedCredit---Increasedcorporatedemandcouldhintatacomingspendingboom,bankerssay
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming
          spending boom, bankers say                                              
          By David Benoit                                                         
          760 words                                                               
          5 August 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Businesses are sitting on record amounts of unused credit from U.S. banks, another quirk in the economic
          recovery that bankers have said could help unleash pent-up spending in the coming months.
          Bank executives said their business clients have in recent months ramped up requests for credit lines that
          can be drawn quickly for spending on inventory, labor or expansions.    
          Companies aren't actually drawing the money into their bank accounts just yet. Businesses are already
          stuffed with cash, and supply-chain issues and labor shortages have crimped their ability to spend it. Those
          unexpected conditions are acting like kinks in the economy's attempts to restart from the dramatic braking in
          2020.                                                                   
          But bankers said the activity in recent months is evidence that businesses are planning to turn on the
          spending spigot. That could help the economy shoot higher.              
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., the two biggest banks in the U.S., at the end of June
          together had nearly $1 trillion in unused commitments to lend to corporate clients. That is up 20% from a year
          ago and a quarterly record at both banks.                               
          "This virtuous circle of hiring workers and meeting customer spending will help drive the economy, and
          hopefully will result in more line usage on our loans," Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan told
          analysts last month.                                                    
          For large banks with a bigger concentration on commercial lending, there has been an average 21% increase
          in unused commercial and industrial credit compared with the prior year, according to a review of available
          filings by Janney Montgomery Scott analysts.                            
                                                                                  
          The Federal Reserve's survey of senior loan officers in July reported that banks were getting more inquiries
          from commercial and industrial borrowers about both new and increased credit lines. The banks also said
          they had loosened their restrictions on the maximum size of the lines.  
          Bank executives said the demand is coming from companies in healthcare, industrial products, food products
          and wholesale supply. They said companies appear to be arming up in hopes they can build back inventory
          quickly if their supply chains can deliver the products they need.      
          For instance, auto dealers starved of inventory are sitting on large unused credit lines, executives at several
          banks said.                                                             
          Bankers view the untapped credit as a sign that their corporate clients are optimistic about the economy's
          trajectory.                                                             
                                                                                  
          In a June survey of commercial-banking clients, JPMorgan found business confidence at its highest level in
          the survey's 11-year history. About 46% of the businesses surveyed said they expect to increase capital
          spending and 38% said they would need to increase their credit, a sharp rise over the past two years.
          "I've never seen anything quite like it," said Jim Glassman, the head economist at JPMorgan's commercial
          bank. He said businesses are planning ambitious spending projects, especially on automation and
          technology.                                                             
          For banks, the unused credit isn't particularly helpful because they can't charge interest on the money until it
          is drawn. With bond markets surging, cash aplenty and interest rates near zero, banks have struggled to
          increase loans and lending profits. That has become a focal point for investors wondering if bank stocks can
          keep rising.                                                            
          Page 6 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The credit lines are something of a green shoot that would typically lead to higher borrowing in the coming
          months, executives said.                                                
          "The good news inside all that is we're actually winning a lot of clients and we're extending facilities at a pace
          beyond where we've been for a bunch of years," PNC Financial Services Group Inc.'s CEO William Demchak
          said on a conference call with analysts. "The problem is they're just not drawing."
          It is still unclear how much of the unused credit will turn into spending. In March 2020, when much of the U.S.
          shut down to slow the spread of Covid-19, businesses raced to draw down their credit lines in an effort to
          stockpile cash. They have continued to add cash in the months since.    
          The lingering memory of the shutdowns might spur businesses to keep their powder dry for some time,
          especially during a surge of new infections from the highly contagious Delta variant.
                                                                                  
          "It may be an evolution," said Christopher Marinac, a bank analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott. "Some of
          this may be building a better toolbox because what we learned from Covid is we have to be prepared."
          Document J000000020210805eh850001q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BarclaysOvertakesCreditSuisseWithInvestmentBank                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Barclays Overtakes Credit Suisse With Investment Bank                   
          By Simon Clark                                                          
          815 words                                                               
          27 July 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Barclays PLC recently overtook Credit Suisse Group AG in investment banking revenue, a sign that the U.K.
          bank's long, frustrated push to be a major player is making progress thanks in part to the troubles of its Swiss
          rival.                                                                  
          The London-based bank vaulted past its Zurich-based counterpart to be the largest investment bank outside
          the U.S. in the second quarter of this year with $1.26 billion of investment banking revenue, representing a
          4.1% market share, according to Dealogic. JPMorgan Chase & Co. was the top investment bank during the
          quarter with $3.15 billion of revenue, a 10.1% market share.            
          Inside Barclays, executives say the collapses of key Credit Suisse clients Archegos Capital Management and
          Greensill Capital have disrupted the investment banking landscape. This has created a rare opportunity for
          Barclays to grab market share in the business of advising on takeovers and arranging debt and equity sales
          for global companies.                                                   
          A Credit Suisse spokesman declined to comment.                          
          Barclays has gone after its wounded competitor. It recruited several bankers from Credit Suisse, including
          Tim Devine to advise financial companies, Eric Federman to advise technology and media companies, Ihsan
          Essaid to co-head mergers and acquisitions advice in the Americas, and Kamal Ahmed to advise
          semiconductor companies.                                                
          Barclays' Chief Executive Jes Staley has long pushed to grow the U.K. lender's investment banking arm. The
          American former JPMorgan executive has argued that having an investment bank acts as a counterweight to
          its steadier U.K. consumer bank, envisioning a smaller, British-based version of his old employer.
          That push has gained momentum during the pandemic. Investment banking revenue boomed. Mr. Staley got
          another shot in the arm when activist investor Sherborne Investors said it sold its entire 6% stake in Barclays,
          giving up on a yearslong activist campaign to have him focus more on the U.K. consumer bank.
          The British lender's investment bankers talk about their ambition of making Barclays a top-five player globally
          and the dominant non-U.S.-domiciled investment bank. The top-five investment banks are all based in the
          U.S. Breaking into the elite group would require Barclays to oust Citigroup Inc. from fifth position.
          Barclays' strategy is to boost revenue in mergers and acquisitions and equity capital markets, or helping
          companies issue new shares. Both areas have been strengths of Credit Suisse.
                                                                                  
          Barclays recently promoted New York-based bankers John Miller and Jean-Francois Astier to lead a new
          management team for the investment bank, a signal of the bank's intent to grow. The new team will
          implement the expansion strategy, Paul Compton, a member of the bank's executive committee, said last
          week.                                                                   
          The latest progress report card comes Wednesday, when Barclays announces its results for the second
          quarter.                                                                
          An example of its investment banking wins: Barclays advised and arranged financing for a group of
          private-equity firms that agreed to buy medical-supply company Medline Industries Inc. for more than $30
          billion, in one of the largest leveraged buyouts since the financial crisis.
          Barclays has struggled in previous attempts to get its investment bank into the top tier. It took over the U.S.
          business of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 and tried to create a global footprint, only to scale back
          sharply earlier this decade.                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Mr. Staley, who joined the bank in 2015, reversed efforts by his predecessor to cut back the investment bank.
          One of his bankers described him in a recent interview as riding in on a white horse to save the operation.
          But the profits flowing into the investment bank aren't encouraging investors to flock to Barclays shares.
          Barclays is worth about 0.53 times its book value, less than the 0.72 times book value at which British
          retail-banking rival Lloyds Banking Group PLC trades.                   
          There is concern that increasing pay will push up costs at the investment bank, according to Christopher
          Cant, an analyst at Autonomous Research, a unit of AllianceBernstein.   
                                                                                  
          "The question now for Barclays is: How low can they hold the cost-to-income ratio for that division?" Mr. Cant
          said. "The revenue performance has been very good, but how much of that are they going to bleed away?"
          Past forays into investment banking have ended in failure at other lenders. It is a notoriously volatile
          business, booming when times are good, as they are now. But revenue can evaporate quickly, while costs
          stay high.                                                              
          A senior banker at Barclays said that the bank can't afford to slip up. European competitors including
          Deutsche Bank AG and UBS Group AG have scaled back investment banking operations in recent years in
          the wake of billions of dollars of losses.                              
          The bank is also rebuilding its presence in Asia, where Barclays reduced its presence drastically before Mr.
          Staley took charge.                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210727eh7r0000s                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Dow,S&P,NasdaqNotchRecords                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Monday's Markets                                                        
          Dow, S&P, Nasdaq Notch Records                                          
          By Caitlin Ostroff and Paul Vigna                                       
          610 words                                                               
          27 July 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Stocks rose slightly to set records ahead of a busy week of earnings from technology companies.
          The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 82.76 points, or 0.2%, to 35144.31, after the blue-chip index on
          Friday closed above the 35000 milestone for the first time. The S&P 500 rose 10.51 points, or 0.2%, to
          4422.30, and the Nasdaq Composite added 3.72 points, or less than 0.1%, to 14840.71. All three indexes set
          records for the second consecutive session.                             
          Investors are awaiting earnings from a flurry of American companies, including large technology firms, this
          week will indicate how large businesses are weathering the pandemic and a recent uptick in inflation.
          Electric-car maker Tesla reported record earnings after the closing bell. Apple, Amazon.com and Google
          parent Alphabet are on deck later this week. All four stocks traded modestly higher.
          This week is really where we enter crunchtime for earnings," said Hugh Gimber, a strategist at J.P. Morgan
          Asset Management. "With tech names reporting, the bar is high."         
          Rising concerns over the Delta variant of Covid-19 and worries over economic growth are likely to challenge
          the pace at which the U.S. stock market will rise in the coming weeks, some investors say. Money managers
          also are awaiting guidance from the Federal Reserve this week, including policy makers' outlook on inflation
          and any clues on when the central bank may start scaling back its bond purchases.
          "Economic activity in the U.S. does seem to have peaked," said Altaf Kassam, head of investment strategy
          for State Street Global Advisors in Europe. "We're still in very benign territory where the economy is still
          powering ahead but not at the full elastic bounce back."                
          The market actually may be reflecting more of that than it seems, said JC Parets, the founder of
          technical-analysis service AllStarCharts. The records for the big indexes are coming from a small group of
          stocks, which happen to be the largest. Underneath that, he said, the picture is much choppier.
          Global markets initially soured after Beijing took aim at some of China's rapidly growing listed companies over
          the weekend, prompting a sharp selloff and fueling concerns about regulatory risks. The Shanghai Composite
          Index dropped 2.3%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index shed 4.1% in its biggest one-day rout in more than
          a year.                                                                 
          Early Tuesday, Japan's Nikkei was up 0.4%, the Shanghai benchmark was up 0.2% and the Hang Seng was
          down 0.6%.                                                              
                                                                                  
          In New York Monday, U.S.-listed shares of large Chinese companies fell, with Alibaba Group Holding sliding
          7.2% to $191.76 and KE Holdings, a Chinese online property platform, down 28% to $24.44. Food
          e-commerce platform Pinduoduo dropped 8.8% to $88.71, online retailer JD.com shed 8.6% to $66.08 and
          gaming company NetEase dropped 14% to $89.40.                           
          In other action, shares of Aon rallied 8.2% to $251.56 after the company and Willis Towers Watson agreed to
          terminate their roughly $30 billion deal and end litigation with the U.S. Justice Department. Willis Towers
          Watson shares fell 9% to $206.07.                                       
          In bond markets, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note ticked lower to 1.276% from 1.286% Friday. Yields
          fall when prices rise.                                                  
          The yield on 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, fell to a record Monday. The TIPS yield
          reached minus 1.120% in intraday trading, according to Tradeweb.        
                                                                                  
          U.S. stock futures were down 0.1%.                                      
          Page 10 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210727eh7r0001n                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FICOSeesItsHoldOnCreditSlipping                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FICO Sees Its Hold On Credit Slipping                                   
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          1,183 words                                                             
          26 July 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          For decades, nearly every consumer credit decision revolved around a three-digit number -- the FICO credit
          score. That is changing.                                                
          FICO has long dominated the market for consumer credit, providing scores for some 200 million U.S.
          consumers that are used by a whole host of lenders to evaluate credit-card, auto-loan and mortgage
          applicants. For borrowers, higher scores can mean bigger loans and lower interest rates.
          But powerful forces are aligning to test its dominance.                 
          Big lenders are moving away from FICO, according to people familiar with the matter. Capital One Financial
          Corp. and Synchrony Financial don't use its scores for most consumer-lending decisions. They are becoming
          a smaller factor in some underwriting decisions at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
          A key financial regulator, meanwhile, is encouraging banks to de-emphasize credit scores in an effort to
          expand access to affordable credit. And housing-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are considering
          allowing lenders to use other scores when evaluating mortgage applicants.
                                                                                  
          There are a few reasons for the shift. Many lenders now review a wealth of new data and use it to refine their
          own proprietary scores that they say are better able to predict who will repay. Regulators are concerned that
          FICO leaves too many people behind, limiting them to payday loans and other costly forms of credit. Some 53
          million U.S. adults lack traditional FICO scores because they have thin or nonexistent borrowing histories.
          "FICO scores are good, but they're not perfect," said Roger Hochschild, chief executive of Discover Financial
          Services. The company relies less on FICO scores when evaluating existing or prior customers and more
          when applicants are brand-new to Discover, he said.                     
          FICO's waning influence could become a problem for the roughly $16 billion company behind it: Fair Isaac
          Corp. FICO scores account for about 40% of its revenue but nearly all of its profits, according to people
          familiar with the matter.                                               
          The company has increased its price for traditional FICO scores significantly in recent years, to around 25
          cents apiece for underwriting purposes from 15 cents to 18 cents, eliciting complaints from some big lenders,
          according to people familiar with the matter. In recent months, it has offered lenders free access to two newer
          credit scores meant to boost loan approvals among applicants with slim credit histories, other people said.
          "We see no evidence in our business to indicate the marketplace is using the FICO score less," said a FICO
          spokeswoman. "We realize lenders use, and in fact encourage lenders to use, the FICO score in conjunction
          with proprietary data and models to make the best decision possible." The spokeswoman said that FICO
          didn't materially increase the price of FICO scores for 25 years after their introduction. "After decades of
          inflation, the real price of the FICO score effectively decreased," she said.
          FICO scores, which range from 300 to 850, are calculated using the information in people's credit reports,
          such as payment history, credit-card debt relative to spending limits and recent credit applications.
          Borrowers often check their FICO scores before they apply for credit. But the guessing game is getting
          harder. Big banks are increasingly approving applicants with low FICO scores or rejecting those with high
          scores if alternative metrics point in a different direction, lending executives said.
          Still, the scores are a mainstay in many consumer-credit decisions. The company sold more than 10 billion
          FICO scores in the past 12 months, a figure that has remained steady during the last few years.
                                                                                  
          Lenders' efforts to rely less on FICO scores accelerated during the pandemic. The scores don't reflect
          deferment and forbearance programs, making it harder for lenders to evaluate borrowers. Some 48% of
          Page 12 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          lenders feel less confident making consumer-lending decisions based on traditional credit scores and reports
          compared with a year prior, according to a recent Aite Group survey of more than 20 lenders.
          Bank credit executives said their own internal data and proprietary scores are more reliable. They factor in
          information from credit reports, deposit balances and overdrafts and their own prior lending relationships with
          applicants.                                                             
          For banks, one benefit of their own scoring systems is their ability to tweak them. Several years ago,
          JPMorgan noticed that when borrowers transferred their credit-card debt to a personal loan, their FICO
          scores often increased because the share of debt they carried compared with their cards' spending limits had
          fallen, a person familiar with the matter said. But the debt was still present in the form of a personal loan. The
          bank found a similar issue with its own credit score but was able to quickly fix it, the person said. FICO said
          recent versions of its scores address this issue.                       
          JPMorgan still uses FICO scores for mortgages and car loans but relies on them less for many credit-card
          originations, the person said, particularly when there is an existing relationship with the bank.
          FICO is becoming a smaller factor in underwriting decisions at Citizens Financial Group Inc. When shoppers
          apply for its buy-now-pay-later loans, the bank considers factors including what they are buying, according
          to a person familiar with the matter. Fitness equipment, for example, is viewed as a sign of creditworthiness
          because it suggests a positive change in behavior.                      
          FICO has a big advantage: Investors rely heavily on the scores to decide whether to buy packaged-up
          consumer loans. The scores are a common language of sorts, one that requires no time-consuming
          translation. Even lenders that don't use FICO to make lending decisions tend to use them in loan
          securitizations.                                                        
          FICO largely has Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to thank for its hold on securitization. Decades ago, they
          decided lenders using credit scores to underwrite mortgages would have to use FICO scores if they wanted
          to sell the loans to them. Lenders later moved to using them for nearly everything else.
                                                                                  
          But FICO might soon face competition in the mortgage market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are considering
          allowing lenders to use other scores -- including VantageScore -- in lending decisions.
          Banks' efforts to decrease their reliance on FICO recently got a boost from Washington.
          Last summer's racial-justice protests sparked a conversation at the banks' main regulator, the Office of the
          Comptroller of the Currency, about the pitfalls of credit scores. Agency decision makers concluded that the
          OCC's credit-score guidance to banks -- meant to prevent big loan losses -- was preventing many Black and
          Hispanic borrowers from obtaining affordable credit, according to a person familiar with the matter.
          The OCC enlisted banks, financial-technology firms and civil-rights advocates to find ways to underwrite
          loans to people without traditional credit scores. FICO has contacted the OCC several times asking to be part
          of the effort, including pitching its UltraFICO score that factors in bank-account activity, according to people
          familiar with the matter.                                               
          Big lenders participating in the program told the OCC they weren't interested, some of the people said.
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210726eh7q0001o                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 13 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WallStreet'sNewRivalry:WhoCanSeetheMostPeopleinPerson---Dealmakersgetbackontheroad,andJPMorganawardspointsformeetings
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wall Street's New Rivalry: Who Can See the Most People in Person --- Dealmakers get back on the
          road, and JPMorgan awards points for meetings                           
          By Cara Lombardo and David Benoit                                       
          1,015 words                                                             
          17 July 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Wall Street investment bankers are well-accustomed to jockeying for multimillion-dollar fees on corporate
          deals. Now, the game is focused on just showing up.                     
          After more than a year of Zoom, Wall Street's elite are beginning to emerge from behind their screens and
          returning to the timeworn custom of in-person client visits, handshakes and wine-soaked dinners.
          Rivals Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which have already brought their employees
          back to the office faster than the rest of Wall Street, are urging their bankers to get out and visit boldfaced
          corporate clients -- and quickly, before others do.                     
          Goldman chief David Solomon began touting the importance of traveling to see clients as soon as New York
          state quarantine restrictions softened in early April, people close to him say. He modeled the desired behavior
          himself, asking bankers if they had clients he should visit while he was making trips to places such as Florida
          and California on his corporate jet. This prompted senior bankers, many of whom had been holed up in the
          Hamptons and Palm Beach, to hit the pavement.                           
          JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon sprung into action and began pushing the firm's fleet of private jets on managing
          directors, saying, "If you need to use a plane to go see a client, use it. There are no excuses," according to a
          person familiar with the chief executive's communication.               
          The effort intensified when Fernando Rivas, JPMorgan's head of North America investment banking, set up a
          contest to get bankers on the road again.                               
          The game, which ran during the month of June, awarded senior bankers 10 points for proper face time with
          CEOs outside their offices, seven for attending board meetings in-person, five for visiting CEOs in their
          offices, three for CFOs and one for other senior executives such as heads of corporate development, people
          familiar with the matter said.                                          
          For investment bankers used to year-end bonuses that can top $1 million, the stakes were small by
          comparison: The top point earners would get a dinner with Mr. Rivas and Carlos Hernandez, the executive
          chair of the investment bank. Still, that didn't stop the gamesmanship from taking flight.
          One technology banker, Rod Reed, racked up points by hosting a cocktail reception at his San
          Francisco-area home with several CEOs present, including Mr. Dimon, some of the people said. That
          prompted eye-rolls from some colleagues and helped propel him to a win. In addition to Mr. Reed, the other
          winners named this month at an internal meeting were Andy Rabin, a top regional investment banker; Matt
          Seiter, a technology banker; and Phil Ross, who specializes in healthcare. The four winners declined to
          comment, through a company spokeswoman.                                 
          The game seemed to serve its purpose. The bank recorded more than 1,000 total in-person meetings for the
          month, Mr. Rivas said in an interview, adding that they were often first to see clients in person since the
          pandemic hit.                                                           
          Bank CEOs are getting in on the action too.                             
                                                                                  
          Mr. Dimon, who wasn't earning points in the game, in late June went to Paris and Rome, winning face time
          with French President Emmanuel Macron, who came to the opening of the bank's new office, and Italian
          Prime Minister Mario Draghi.                                            
          But Mr. Dimon skipped what was supposed to be a stop in London, unwilling to lock himself down for the
          required quarantine in the U.K., according to someone familiar with his itinerary.
                                                                                  
          Page 14 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Around the same time, Citigroup Inc.'s Jane Fraser did the quarantine, staying in a London hotel for her five
          required days on her first international trip as CEO. She cooked her own meals on a small two-burner stove
          and caught up on some light television (NCIS) and heavy reading ("Ratification: The People Debate the
          Constitution, 1787-1788" by Pauline Maier). Things generally went smoothly except when her monitor went
          dark during an address to the bank's 210,000 employees. (She kept speaking.)
          Once free, she said it was worth it to return to Citigroup's Canary Wharf offices, see clients and officials from
          Bank of England and Rishi Sunak, chancellor of the exchequer. Meetings would run long, but few had other
          places to be. Plus, there was no traffic, she said.                     
          Though Ms. Fraser made it a point to make personal visits, Citigroup isn't requiring its bankers to start
          traveling again. Ms. Fraser said the bank won't be tracking banker meetings with clients and will instead focus
          on the quality of the relationship. She says it will help Citigroup recruit.
          The mood is a swift reversal from the early days of the pandemic. When merger-and-acquisition activity
          screeched to a halt in the spring of 2020, many investment bankers had flashbacks to previous crises and
          thought about dusting off their resumes. Instead, activity came roaring back in the second half of the year,
          with a string of megadeals and a SPAC merger bonanza.                   
          At a recent meeting with industry bankers, American Airlines Group Inc. CEO Doug Parker said the ones who
          had led the company's $10 billion debt deal in March were those who had come to visit him. American hired
          Goldman and Barclays PLC for the deal. "Do you know how many bankers showed up the next week?" the
          airline's finance chief, Derek Kerr, said at an industry conference in May. "Every other one."
          Ben Metzger, Barclays' head banker for the transportation industry, said many of his recent in-person
          meetings were more social than PowerPoint-driven. After a record-breaking year for his team, it is working
          through a backlog of dinners to celebrate closing deals. That means the Lucite trinkets commemorating deals
          are stacking up again too. "I had clients saying to me, 'Where is my dinner and deal toy?'" Mr. Metzger says.
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Alison Sider contributed to this article.                               
          Document J000000020210717eh7h0002k                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 15 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WallStreetSplitonForcingBankerstoReturntoOffice                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wall Street Split on Forcing Bankers to Return to Office                
          By Julia-Ambra Verlaine and David Benoit                                
          1,139 words                                                             
          7 July 2021                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          There is a growing divide on Wall Street: firms calling employees back and firms telling people they can work
          from home.                                                              
          Titans like Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are taking a hard-line approach, beefing
          up in-person staff five days a week in New York even though it might mean losing talent. Rivals including
          Citigroup Inc. are touting flexibility, betting that a softer approach will help them poach top traders and deal
          makers.                                                                 
          While businesses across America are struggling with whether and how to have staff return full time, the issue
          has been particularly thorny at large U.S. banks, where leaders like Jamie Dimon and David Solomon have
          voiced strong opinions.                                                 
          Culture is at the heart of the debate. Some say the trading floor is the last bastion of Wall Street, where
          interns and young employees learn by osmosis. Others think record results in a remote-work year prove that
          the trading floor and the office alike have lost their relevance.       
          JPMorgan's investment-banking staff had to be back in the office by Tuesday, including communications,
          technology and operations teams. Sales, trading and research staff members were told to return full time in
          June. Many sales and trading staffers have already been in the office throughout much of the past year.
          Goldman staff members returned on June 14. Mr. Solomon, the CEO, said in February that working from
          home isn't the new normal: "It's an aberration that we're going to correct as soon as possible."
          Leaders at both banks say being in the office leads to better collaboration and idea generation, and they have
          complained that employees are less productive at home.                  
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said at a conference last month that he would "be very disappointed if
          people haven't found their way into the office" by Labor Day.           
          "If you want to get paid New York rates, you work in New York," Mr. Gorman said then. "None of this, 'I'm in
          Colorado . . . and getting paid like I'm sitting in New York City.'"    
          Other banks are betting the strict attitude will look outdated and help them draw in new talent. A recent study
          by consulting giant McKinsey & Co. showed that more than half of employees prefer hybrid work -- a mixture
          of working remotely and heading into the office -- up from 30% before the pandemic. "The playing field was
          level for all these banks because they were forced to work from home at the same time," said Chris Wooten,
          an executive vice president at the consulting firm NICE who is working with banks to ensure remote-work
          plans meet risk and compliance guidelines. "The great experiment starts . . . when some go back to the office
          full time and some don't."                                              
          Citigroup said in March that the bulk of its workforce would be in the office about three days a week. "Our
          vision is you can't go back to what it was, you have to go forward," said Tyler Dickson, the global co-head of
          banking, capital markets and advisory.                                  
          Jefferies Financial Group Inc. is largely letting employees and leaders figure out what will work best from
          team to team. CEO Richard Handler has said that record revenue proves he doesn't need to issue an edict
          bringing staff back to work.                                            
          "Our people didn't spend the day streaming movies, commiserating about the pain of life in isolation or hiding
          in any way from their obligations," he wrote to investors this month. "They worked harder and more effectively
          than at any time in our firm's history."                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 16 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Some recruiters said that pushing for five days a week in the office will hinder efforts to hire people from other
          industries, especially when sectors like tech are being so flexible.    
          That is important because banks, hedge funds and asset managers alike have increasingly been searching
          far afield for new hires. Goldman has been looking at lawyers, and JPMorgan widened its recruiting pool to
          span a broader range of universities, including some more focused on engineering and technology.
          Citigroup has been hiring thousands of coders and computer programmers. 
          Mr. Dimon, the JPMorgan CEO, admitted he has gotten blowback. "Oh, yes, people don't like commuting, but
          so what?" he said at The Wall Street Journal's CEO Council Summit in May.
          A person familiar with the matter said the bank is expecting more people to resign than in other years, but
          that overall attrition is low. A JPMorgan spokesman said staff members in supporting roles who aren't
          managing capital or dealing with clients will be able to work remotely a few days a week.
                                                                                  
          For those returning to the office, some firms have instituted vaccine requirements, while others are requiring
          disclosures and social distancing for unvaccinated staff.               
          In private equity, Blackstone Group Inc. called its investment staff back to the office full time in June. Carlyle
          Group Inc. and Apollo Global Management Inc. are offering more flexibility.
          Asset manager Vanguard Group is preparing for most staffers to work from home two days a week, and rival
          BlackRock Inc. will allow for some level of hybrid work. Some 44% of hedge funds also said they were
          considering three days a week in office, according to a May survey by industry group Managed Funds
          Association.                                                            
          Some Wall Street leaders are wondering if they were too early to promote flexible work.
                                                                                  
          UBS Group AG, for example, has been touting hybrid work in town halls and memos. So some sales and
          trading employees were surprised when certain teams were told to return full time by September. Sales and
          trading employees said the tone shifted after competitors like Goldman and JPMorgan started bringing staff
          back to the office.                                                     
          UBS clarified its approach last week, telling staff it was committed to hybrid work "where role, tasks and
          location allow."                                                        
          Deutsche Bank AG will bring back employees after Labor Day, when it will open its new offices overlooking
          Central Park. Many will be able to work from home part time depending on their role. For example, staffers
          with client-facing jobs will be able to work remotely one day a week. Traders are likely to remain full time.
          A spokesman said the bank hoped to attract talent with the hybrid work model as well as the new offices,
          which include outdoor terraces that can function as meeting rooms.      
                                                                                  
          One particular difference: Fridays. At Capital One Financial Corp., Lazard Ltd. and Vanguard, many staffers
          will be allowed to work from home on Mondays and Fridays.               
          At JPMorgan, those who can work from home part time have been told by some managers that on Mondays
          and Fridays they must be in the office.                                 
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Dawn Lim contributed to this article.                                   
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210707eh770001q                                      
          