                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Invesco In Talks To Merge With State Street Unit ................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvescoInTalksToMergeWithStateStreetUnit                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Invesco In Talks To Merge With State Street Unit                        
          By Justin Baer and Cara Lombardo                                        
          352 words                                                               
          17 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Invesco Ltd. is in talks to merge with State Street Corp.'s asset-management business, people familiar with
          the matter said.                                                        
          A deal isn't imminent, and the discussions might not result in an agreement, the people said. It isn't clear what
          the terms of a potential deal would look like, but it would be one of the industry's biggest in recent memory,
          given State Street's asset-management unit manages nearly $4 trillion in assets.
          State Street is one of the world's largest custody banks, providing accounting and administrative services to
          other investment managers. The firm's own investing unit, State Street Global Advisors, remains a leading
          seller of exchange-traded funds, the low-cost investing structure the firm pioneered.
          Invesco oversees $1.5 trillion in assets and manages a large ETF business. It has a market value of about
          $11 billion, compared with roughly $32 billion for State Street.        
          In a sign of potential investor enthusiasm for such a tie-up, Invesco shares rose more than 8% in after-hours
          trading Thursday after The Wall Street Journal reported on the talks. State Street shares rose more than 1%.
                                                                                  
          Investors' appetite for lower-cost funds have thinned profit margins across the asset-management industry.
          While the stock-market rally has helped mask some of these challenges, companies continue to feel pressure
          to lower expenses and cut investment- management fees, which can be accomplished by combining forces.
          Many large and small asset managers are contemplating where they stand in an investing world reshaped by
          technology, and are examining deals with rivals.                        
          Consolidation in the industry has picked up in recent years, and Invesco and State Street have been active
          deal makers. Invesco snapped up several other asset managers, including OppenheimerFund Inc. and
          Guggenheim Partners's ETF business. State Street expanded its asset-servicing arm, adding financial-data
          firm Charles River Systems Inc. Earlier this month, the Boston-based bank agreed to acquire Brown Brothers
          Harriman & Co.'s investor-services unit for $3.5 billion.               
          Document J000000020210917eh9h00023                                      
          