                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Caught in a Crisis, Big Banks Prepare for Rough Days Ahead................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CaughtinaCrisis,BigBanksPrepareforRoughDaysAhead                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Caught in a Crisis, Big Banks Prepare for Rough Days Ahead              
          By Emily Flitter and Kate Kelly                                         
          528 words                                                               
          16 April 2020                                                           
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, all reporting quarterly earnings, said they had set aside
          billions of dollars in preparation for loan defaults.                   
          While many other industries are deeply threatened by the coronavirus outbreak, the country's banks are still
          earning billions, in part because the market volatility it caused was a moneymaking opportunity for their
          trading divisions.                                                      
          But the chaos wrought by the pandemic, which has shut down businesses across the country and put millions
          of people out of work, has them setting aside billions of dollars to prepare for the defaults that lie ahead.
          ''This isn't a financial crisis,'' Citigroup's chief executive, Michael Corbat, said Wednesday. ''It's a public health
          crisis with severe economic ramifications.''                            
          To prepare for the fallout, Citigroup and other banks are adding to their reserves -- which is pinching their
          profits. Citi said Wednesday that it had earned $2.5 billion for the quarter, a 46 percent drop from a year
          earlier. It added $7 billion to its reserves, bringing its pool to nearly $21 billion.
                                                                                  
          ''While we've built significant loan loss reserves,'' Mr. Corbat said. ''No one knows what the severity or
          longevity of the virus' impact on the global economy will be.''         
          Mr. Corbat praised his employees for their efforts to help clients in their time of need, and said the bank was
          using its largely empty corporate cafeteria to make meals for food banks.
          ''We know many consumers are facing real struggles, and we're doing our best to support them,'' he said.
                                                                                  
          Bank of America also announced its quarterly results Wednesday, reporting a profit of $4 billion in the first
          three months of 2020, down from $7.3 billion a year earlier. The difference came mostly from a $3.6 billion
          increase in the amount of money the bank set aside for bad loans; the total reserved by the bank during this
          quarter reached $4.8 billion.                                           
          But as bad as the coronavirus has been for most businesses, at Bank of America it triggered a 34 percent
          surge in revenue from the sales and trading of stocks, bonds and other financial products. That gain was
          generated during a period when some employees say they have been under pressure to go to the office
          despite the health risks. Bank of America said in a statement last week that it was ''sparing no expense or
          consideration taking care of our people.''                              
          At Goldman Sachs, profits fell 46 percent to $1.2 billion, reflecting a set-aside of an additional $937 million for
          potential credit losses, losses in its asset-management division and a rise in technology costs.
          But the bank's revenue was essentially flat, helped in part by a 28 percent upswing in trading revenue and a
          25 percent rise in investment-banking fees related primarily to direct lending to corporations and help when
          they raised public money through the bond and stock markets.            
          The chiefs of major U.S. banks testifying in Washington on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH
          SILBIGER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)                                            
          Document NYTF000020200416eg4g0004f                                      
                                                                                  
          