                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Dentsu Unit Urges Ad Clients to Join Facebook Boycott ......................................................................................... 2
          EXCHANGE --- Shoppers Avoid Store Payment Screens ....................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          DentsuUnitUrgesAdClientstoJoinFacebookBoycott                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Dentsu Unit Urges Ad Clients to Join Facebook Boycott                   
          By Suzanne Vranica                                                      
          752 words                                                               
          19 June 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A prominent advertising agency is advising clients to support an ad boycott against Facebook Inc. that was
          recently called for by civil-rights groups, a move that comes amid growing tensions between Madison Avenue
          and the social network over how it polices its content.                 
          In an email to clients on Thursday, 360i, a digital-advertising firm owned by ad giant Dentsu Group Inc., said it
          supports the July ad boycott that groups including the Anti-Defamation League and the NAACP called for
          against Facebook on Wednesday.                                          
          The groups urged big advertisers to pull spending from Facebook for July to protest the lack of progress the
          social-media giant has made enforcing its policies around hate speech and misinformation.
          360i, whose clients include spice maker McCormick & Co., Discover Financial Services and consumer-goods
          giant Unilever PLC, "believes any social platform that earns profits by amplifying the voices of their
          community must have a zero-tolerance policy for hate," according to the email, which was seen by The Wall
          Street Journal.                                                         
          "It is no longer enough to be on a path to addressing this or merely celebrating the considerable gains made
          over the last year or so," said the email, which didn't mention Facebook by name but linked to a recent
          Journal story about the civil-rights groups' call to boycott Facebook. "Therefore, we support
          #StopHateforProfit and its July call to action."                        
          Carolyn Everson, vice president of Global Business Group at Facebook, said in a statement that the company
          was in conversations with marketers and civil-rights organizations about how to be "a force for good to fight
          racial injustice around the world."                                     
          Tensions between Madison Avenue and Facebook have quickly escalated because of the company's
          handling of some posts made by President Trump last month. Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg
          allowed two posts by Mr. Trump that called demonstrators thugs and warned: "When the looting starts, the
          shooting starts."                                                       
          Earlier Thursday, Facebook said it took down campaign posts and ads for the president, citing violations of its
          policy against what it called "organized hate." The ads, featuring a downward-pointing triangle, asked Trump
          supporters to back President Trump's calls to designate antifa as a terrorist organization. The inverted red
          triangle is a marking Nazis used to designate political prisoners in concentration camps, according to the
          Anti-Defamation League. A Trump campaign spokesman said the inverted red triangle was a symbol used by
          antifa.                                                                 
          Over the past few years, Facebook has invested in workers and technology to guard against election
          interference and to better police its platforms, resulting in improvements in the removal of hate speech and
          other objectionable content.                                            
          Last week, an ad executive at Mediabrands, a large ad-buying firm owned by Interpublic Group of Cos. said
          on LinkedIn that it was time for marketers to hold Facebook's leadership team accountable.
          Facebook "must rethink how to curb the spread of content that incites violence and leads to divisive
          discourse," wrote Elijah Harris, senior vice president of paid social at Mediabrands' Reprise. He called for
          marketers and ad agencies to commit to reallocating the spending that would traditionally go to Facebook to
          partners that better align with the values of their companies. Mr. Harris's post was reported earlier by
          Business Insider.                                                       
          In an interview, Mr. Harris said the way Facebook handled Mr. Trump's posts was the "tipping point" that
          made him speak out.                                                     
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Mr. Harris said he doesn't speak on behalf of his ad agency. Mediabrands said it isn't advising clients to pull
          their dollars from Facebook. Instead, the ad-buying firm said it recently developed a list of principles it is
          sharing with its clients to hold the entire media industry to a higher standard "that stops racial injustice and
          elevates the conversation," said Joshua Lowcock, global brand safety officer at Mediabrands. The agency's
          clients include Coca-Cola Co., Johnson & Johnson and Amazon.com Inc.    
          Facebook and other tech giants have been somewhat immune from past moves by big marketers to curb
          their spending because the platforms don't rely as heavily on large marketers as other media such as TV
          networks. Facebook's U.S. revenue from digital advertising is expected to rise about 5% this year to $31.43
          billion, according to eMarketer.                                        
          In 2017, several companies pulled their spending from Alphabet Inc.'s YouTube after they found their ads
          running alongside extremist and racist content on the site.             
          Document J000000020200619eg6j0003v                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---ShoppersAvoidStorePaymentScreens                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Shoppers Avoid Store Payment Screens                       
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          431 words                                                               
          4 April 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          As the new coronavirus spreads, people are worried that signing payment screens at store checkouts could
          make them sick. According to the card networks, they shouldn't have to sign anyway.
          Major card networks including Visa Inc., Mastercard Inc., American Express Co. and Discover Financial
          Services stopped requiring signatures on almost all card purchases, no matter the dollar amount, over the
          past couple of years. Many stores and card companies don't even check the signatures.
          There are two main reasons for the disconnect: Some stores actually do want signatures, viewing them as a
          way to improve security. And many stores just haven't updated their payment terminals to remove the
          signature prompt.                                                       
          Mastercard last week sent a letter to banks that help process payments, asking them to remind merchants
          that the network no longer requires signatures. "As the Covid-19 situation continues to evolve, public health
          officials have advised that it's imperative that we all do our best to reduce physical contact with people or
          potentially contaminated surfaces," the company wrote.                  
          Card networks like Mastercard are in charge of the rails that card payments run on. Banks issue cards and
          some of them also help process payments on behalf of merchants, which pay fees to card issuers, networks
          and acquirers.                                                          
          The networks and stores used to be strict about making people sign for credit-card purchases, but the
          signatures became less important over time.                             
          Some networks stopped requiring them for small purchases. Over the past couple of years, they stopped
          requiring them for almost all purchases.                                
                                                                                  
          The companies say signatures are no longer needed because card technology to catch fraud has improved,
          in particular the chip cards that have largely replaced magnetic stripe cards over the past few years.
          There are exceptions where the networks still want signatures. For example, Visa says it requires a signature
          if the merchant doesn't accept chip cards.                              
          The National Retail Federation said its survey last year found that about two-thirds of U.S. retailers expected
          to remove the signature requirement by the end of 2020 or already had.  
                                                                                  
          Cecilia Quick isn't normally a germaphobe, but recently she refused to sign the checkout terminal at a
          computer repair store.                                                  
          "I was like 'OK, this manicured hand is not touching that,' " said the 60-year-old retired attorney in San Jose,
          Calif.                                                                  
                                                                                  
          She told a clerk that she wouldn't sign until the screen was wiped down. He brought back a bottle of Windex
          from the store's bathroom and wiped the screen.                         
          Document J000000020200404eg440008s                                      
          