                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          This Time, Firms Promise Concrete Action on Social Justice.................................................................................. 2
          Tapping Home Equity Becomes Tougher for Many Americans ............................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
          Business & Technology : Firms Aim To Forestall Consumer Defaults..................................................................... 8
          Banking & Finance: Morgan Accepts Bitcoin Firms as Clients................................................................................. 9
                                                                                  
          The Coronavirus Pandemic: Covid-19 Swept Through JPMorgan's Trading Floor................................................ 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ThisTime,FirmsPromiseConcreteActiononSocialJustice                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          This Time, Firms Promise Concrete Action on Social Justice              
          By Gillian Friedman                                                     
          1,346 words                                                             
          20 June 2020                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Corporate America has pledged millions to social justice efforts since the killing of George Floyd. But some
          businesses have gone further, committing to concrete changes in their practices.
          Friday will be a paid company holiday for employees at Nike. The same goes for workers at Twitter, Target,
          General Motors, the National Football League and a variety of other businesses. JPMorgan Chase, Capital
          One and other banks will close branches early.                          
          Companies big and small decided to recognize Juneteenth, a holiday that commemorates the end of slavery,
          after the killing of George Floyd set off an urgent national conversation about race.
          Companies are usually quiet at moments of public upheaval and hesitant to take a political stand for fear of
          alienating customers. But since Mr. Floyd's killing late last month, businesses of all kinds have expressed
          their solidarity with protesters, donated millions of dollars to organizations dedicated to racial justice or vowed
          to change their office cultures to be more inclusive.                   
          But some have gone further, announcing intentions to make concrete changes inside their own institutions or
          in how they do business. Here is a list of some of the promises made.   
          Adidas                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The sportswear giant said it would fill at least 30 percent of all open positions at Adidas and Reebok, which it
          also owns, with black or Latinx candidates.                             
          Amazon and IBM                                                          
                                                                                  
          Amazon has placed a one-year moratorium on police use of Rekognition, its facial recognition technology,
          which has come under fire for its unfair treatment of African-Americans. Similarly, IBM said it would no longer
          offer, develop or research facial recognition technology, citing potential human rights and privacy abuses.
          Andreessen Horowitz                                                     
                                                                                  
          The investment firm donated $2.2 million to start the Talent x Opportunity fund, a program designed to
          support entrepreneurs from underserved communities. The company will provide entrepreneurs with seed
          capital and training to help start their businesses.                    
          Apple                                                                   
          The technology company is creating an entrepreneurship camp for black software developers to promote
          their best work and ideas, and said it would increase the number of black-owned suppliers that provided
          materials for its operations.                                           
          Estée Lauder                                                            
                                                                                  
          The cosmetics brand said it would make sure the percentage of black employees at all levels in the company
          would mirror the percentage of black people that make up the United States population within the next five
          years. It also committed to doubling recruits from historically black colleges and universities in the next two
          years. Over the next three years, the company committed to doubling the amount it currently spends on
          sourcing ingredients, packing materials and supplies from black-owned businesses.
          Facebook                                                                
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The company pledged to double the number of its black and Latinx employees by 2023, and to increase the
          number of black people in leadership positions by 30 percent over the next five years. Facebook also
          committed to spend at least $100 million annually on black-owned suppliers, from marketing firms to
          construction companies.                                                 
          FitBit                                                                  
          The company behind the fitness app said it would support research projects to address health conditions that
          disproportionately affected black people, including Covid-19. FitBit also pledged to offer more workouts from
          black fitness influencers on its app and feature them on its social media channels.
          NASCAR                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The motorsports organization has barred Confederate flags from its events and properties. NASCAR had
          begun asking fans to stop taking Confederate battle flags to its races in 2015, but many have flown the flag
          anyway, hoisting it atop campers and R.V.s on fields around racetracks. NASCAR said it would set protocols
          for enforcing at its tracks.                                            
          PayPal                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The payment platform created a $500 million fund to support black and minority businesses by strengthening
          ties with community banks and credit unions serving underrepresented communities as well as investing
          directly in black- and other minority-led start-ups. Another $10 million was set aside for grants to assist
          black-owned businesses affected by Covid-19, with an extra $5 million to fund program grants and employee
          matching gifts for nonprofits working with black business owners. PayPal also pledged to put $15 million into
          efforts to create more robust internal diversity and inclusion programs.
          PepsiCo                                                                 
          The beverage giant said it would increase its number of black managers by 30 percent by 2025. It committed
          to adding more than 250 black employees to its managerial positions, including a minimum of 100 black
          employees to the executive ranks.                                       
          The company said it would double spending with black-owned suppliers and create more jobs for black
          people at its marketing agencies.                                       
          Pinterest                                                               
                                                                                  
          Pinterest said it would work to showcase content about racial justice on its platform and remove all ads from
          Black Lives Matter search results so users could focus on learning about the movement.
          Sephora and Rent the Runway                                             
                                                                                  
          The beauty chain took the 15 Percent Pledge, which means it will look to increase the amount of shelf space
          given over to products from black-owned businesses to 15 percent. Rent the Runway also committed to the
          15 Percent Pledge.                                                      
          SoftBank                                                                
          The Japanese conglomerate said it would start a $100 million fund to invest in companies led by minority
          entrepreneurs in the United States.                                     
                                                                                  
          Target                                                                  
          The retailer, which has its headquarters in Minneapolis, where Mr. Floyd was killed, is donating 10,000 hours
          of consulting services for small businesses owned by black people in the Twin Cities to help with rebuilding
          efforts.                                                                
          Trek                                                                    
                                                                                  
          The bicycle manufacturer plans to create 1,000 cycling industry jobs for black people by investing $2.5 million
          over 10 years in a new retail management and bicycle training scholarship program. It also pledged to invest
          $5 million over the next three years to establish new bike shops in underserved communities, with the goal of
          building 50 stores in 10 years.                                         
          To help make competitive cycling more diverse, Trek pledged to establish a scholarship fund to equip 25
          National Interscholastic Cycling Association teams made up of children of diverse ethic backgrounds for the
          next 10 years.                                                          
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Viacom CBS                                                              
          One of Viacom's subsidiaries, BET, started a $25 million social justice initiative called Content for Change. On
          Friday, it started airing original short-form programming and a slate of films including ''Selma'' and ''Do the
          Right Thing.''                                                          
          Walmart                                                                 
                                                                                  
          The retail giant said it would end the practice of storing ''multicultural cosmetic products'' in locked cases in its
          stores. CVS and Walgreens followed suit.                                
          Walmart also said it would invest $100 million over the next five years to create a Center on Racial Equity.
          The center's mission will be to support philanthropic initiatives that address systemic racism in American
          society, including job training and criminal justice reform.            
          WarnerMedia                                                             
                                                                                  
          The company committed on June 4 to providing on-air advertising to Color of Change, a nonprofit civil rights
          advocacy organization, and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc. The company also
          announced it was giving $500,000 to its content innovation program, OneFifty, to support the development of
          issue-focused shows from underrepresented communities.                  
          HBO Max, owned by WarnerMedia, temporarily removed ''Gone With the Wind'' from its library in the wake of
          the George Floyd protests, but later said the film would return to the platform, accompanied by an introduction
          that puts the film into historical context.                             
          YouTube                                                                 
                                                                                  
          The Google-owned platform invested in a $100 million fund to support and promote the work of black creators
          and artists. It also pledged to re-examine its policies to ensure that black users and artists were protected
          from white-supremacist and bullying content.                            
          Clockwise from top left: PepsiCo promised a 30 percent increase in black managers by 2025; Adidas said it'd
          fill at least 30 percent of openings with candidates of color; Walmart planned to create a Center on Racial
          Equality; Sephora pledged 15 percent of shelf space to products from black-owned businesses.
          (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELA BHASKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; BRITTAINY NEWMAN FOR
          THE NEW YORK TIMES; GABBY JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ROMKE HOOGWAERTS FOR
          THE NEW YORK TIMES)                                                     
          Document NYTF000020200620eg6k0004i                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TappingHomeEquityBecomesTougherforManyAmericans                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tapping Home Equity Becomes Tougher for Many Americans                  
          By Orla McCaffrey                                                       
          958 words                                                               
          19 June 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Millions of Americans are out of work. But for many, tapping their home equity isn't an option.
          New home-equity lines of credit dropped 19% from March through May compared with the same time last
          year, according to preliminary data from credit-reporting firm Equifax Inc.
          Many lenders are getting stricter about offering the credit lines, known as Helocs. Both JPMorgan Chase &
          Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. have temporarily stopped accepting new Heloc applications, and other lenders
          have tightened standards.                                               
          Banks are trying to protect themselves from the big losses they suffered in the 2008 crisis, when borrowers
          who had been using their homes as ATMs defaulted as housing prices unexpectedly tanked. But the lenders'
          caution means that in many cases borrowers who thought they would be able to fall back on their home
          equity in a crisis can't do so now.                                     
          U.S. banks' holdings of home-equity lines of credit were down more than 9% from a year earlier as of early
          June, the largest decline on record, according to Federal Reserve data. Originations of home-equity loans,
          another popular way for borrowers to pull cash out of their homes, fell 43% from March through May,
          according to Equifax.                                                   
          The amount of equity Americans have in their homes has been rising for almost a decade, boosted by
          resilient home price growth. Some homeowners remember the financial crisis and are wary of relying too
          much on home equity. But out-of-work borrowers and others who could benefit from Helocs might be locked
          out by lofty lending requirements, economists said.                     
          "These homeowners may be the ones that no longer qualify because they've suffered an economic injury like
          a job loss," said Ralph McLaughlin, chief economist at Haus, a home-finance startup.
                                                                                  
          The logistics of lending in a pandemic might also be muting Helocs. For example, they sometimes require an
          appraisal, which can be harder to execute under stay-at-home orders.    
          There are a few ways that borrowers can pull cash out of their homes, often using the money for luxuries
          such as home renovations and necessities including medical bills.       
          Helocs are somewhat similar to credit cards: Borrowers can apply for them and then use when needed.
          Though getting a Heloc now might be difficult, homeowners who already have one should be able to tap into
          it.                                                                     
          Home-equity loans, on the other hand, are generally lump-sum payments with a fixed repayment schedule.
                                                                                  
          Helocs have been losing popularity for over a decade, in part because low interest rates made cash-out
          refinancings more popular. The average rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.13% on Thursday from
          3.21% last week, according to mortgage-finance giant Freddie Mac.       
          In a cash-out refi, a borrower generally refinances an existing mortgage with a new one that has a higher
          principal balance. That allows the homeowner to pay off the old mortgage and still have cash left over.
                                                                                  
          When Matthew Worner logged on to the website of Navy Federal Credit Union last week, he learned that it
          had temporarily stopped accepting applications for Helocs.              
          Mr. Worner shelved the renovation plans for his kitchen, which hasn't been updated since just before Neil
          Armstrong reached the moon. He is hoping that the credit union will start offering Helocs again and that he
          will be able to apply for a $15,000 line of credit soon.                
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Navy Federal said it paused all home-equity applications in March when near-zero interest rates prompted a
          surge in refinance applications. The credit union decided to shift 95% of its home-equity employees to the
          mortgage department, said Sean Murphy, the credit union's assistant vice president of equity lending. "We've
          had to make some tough choices in order to best serve our members, and hope to resume Equity Lending as
          soon as we can," Mr. Murphy said in a statement.                        
          Jeff Taylor, managing partner of Digital Risk, a technology and risk firm that consults with mortgage lenders,
          said the availability of home-equity lines and cash-out refis has declined. "In the last 60 days, lenders have
          tightened the box dramatically," he said.                               
          Less than 4% of consumers had an existing Heloc in the first quarter of this year, according to a report by the
          Federal Reserve Bank of New York, compared with about 8% in the years leading up to the financial crisis.
          About 9% of consumers in the highest-income ZIP Codes had tappable lines, about three times the rate as
          those in the lowest-income areas, according to the New York Fed.        
          The dollar value of home-equity lines on banks' balance sheets jumped in mid-March during the first wave of
          pandemic layoffs, according to Fed data.                                
          "Every indication pointed to people tapping into home equity lines," said Sri Thanabalasingam, a senior
          economist at TD Bank.                                                   
          But in April, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo said they would temporarily stop accepting new Heloc applications.
          JPMorgan cited high unemployment rates and projections that housing prices would fall.
                                                                                  
          Other lenders are raising credit-score requirements or decreasing the amount they are willing to lend relative
          to a home's value. "You had to have stellar credit to get one beforehand, and now you need really stellar
          credit," said Amy Crews Cutts, an economist and president of AC Cutts & Associates.
          Multiple lenders, including Fifth Third Bancorp and Santander Bank, have limited home-equity applications to
          existing customers.                                                     
          Banks are wary of extending home-equity products in part because of their second-class status if the
          borrower defaults. The lender that holds a home's mortgage usually has the first shot at recouping what is
          owed.                                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020200619eg6j00016                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business&Technology:FirmsAimToForestallConsumerDefaults                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business & Technology: Firms Aim To Forestall Consumer Defaults         
          By Nina Trentmann and Mark Maurer                                       
          254 words                                                               
          18 May 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          As borrowers get a break on paying down credit-card, vehicle and other consumer loans, banks and financial
          institutions extending the relief face a balancing act in the months ahead.
          Efforts to maintain customer relationships now could stave off a wave of potential defaults, finance
          professionals say. But companies with weakening consumer debt on their books need to figure out how much
          payment relief they can afford to provide, allowing that some consumers won't be able to pay later, potentially
          driving up losses for lenders.                                          
          Financial institutions from American Express Co. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. are offering delayed payments,
          fee waivers and other credit relief to consumers as more than 36 million Americans filed for unemployment
          claims in the weeks after many states locked down nonessential businesses to curb the spread of the
          coronavirus.                                                            
          In doing so, finance chiefs are leaning on a playbook that recalls how they handled the record number of
          defaults and nonperforming loans arising from the 2008 financial crisis.
          "So what is the carrot at the end? These are good customers who are in a bad time through no fault of their
          own, and we'd like to retain them as customers," AmEx Chief Executive Stephen Squeri said during an April
          earnings call.                                                          
          JPMorgan is providing payment relief for hundreds of thousands of consumer accounts, including offering
          90-day grace periods for mortgage, auto and car payments, as well as waiving or refunding certain fees.
          Document J000000020200518eg5i0001k                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:MorganAcceptsBitcoinFirmsasClients                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Morgan Accepts Bitcoin Firms as Clients              
          By Paul Vigna                                                           
          612 words                                                               
          13 May 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. has taken on two bitcoin exchanges, Coinbase Inc. and Gemini Trust Co., as banking
          customers, according to people familiar with the matter, the first time the bank has accepted clients from the
          cryptocurrency industry.                                                
          The move is the latest in a string of positive developments for bitcoin and another sign that Wall Street is
          becoming more comfortable with the business of cryptocurrencies.        
          Coinbase, founded in 2012, is the largest U.S.-based bitcoin exchange, with more than 30 million accounts.
          Gemini, founded in 2014 by Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, is a smaller exchange, but it has been in the
          vanguard of the industry's movement to attract mainstream clients and embrace regulation.
          The accounts were approved in April, and transactions are just starting to be processed, the people said.
          The bank is primarily providing cash-management services to the firms and handling dollar-based
          transactions for the exchanges' U.S.-based customers, according to the people. It will process wire transfers,
          and deposits and withdrawals through the Automated Clearing House network, an electronic funds-transfer
          system.                                                                 
          Although Coinbase and Gemini are built around trading cryptocurrencies, many of their customers link
          traditional bank accounts to their accounts on the exchanges. Handling transfers in and out of those bank
          accounts requires a payments processor.                                 
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's services don't extend to any bitcoin or cryptocurrency-based transactions. The firms handle
          those themselves.                                                       
          JPMorgan took a notable step in extending services to businesses built around bitcoin. Such businesses
          have for years been blocked by banks from opening up accounts. Bankers were concerned with exposing
          themselves to bitcoin's shadier uses, such as money laundering, and the added glare from regulators.
          Coinbase and Gemini had to go through a long vetting process to get JPMorgan's approval, the people said.
          What separates the exchanges from others in the space is the degree to which they have become regulated
          entities. The fact that both are regulated by multiple parties played a big part in the approval process.
          Gemini obtained a trust charter from the New York State Department of Financial Services in 2015. Coinbase
          is registered as a money services business with Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, and has
          a specialized license for crypto businesses, called the BitLicense, from the New York department. Both are
          licensed as money transmitters in multiple states.                      
          Bitcoin has had a run of good news lately. The price has more than doubled from its March lows, recently
          touching $10,000, though it is still more than two years removed from its all-time high of $19,800. Trading
          volumes hit record highs in April and March as investors became interested in the digital currency as a hedge
          against volatility in traditional markets.                              
          Meanwhile, more Wall Street traders are in the market as well. Average daily trading volume this year of
          CME's bitcoin futures contract has risen 43% from the same time frame a year ago, the exchange said.
          Nearly 850 new accounts have been opened this year, more than twice as many as a year ago. Popular
          vehicles for institutional investors, including the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, an over-the-counter ETF, have seen
          increased activity as well.                                             
          For JPMorgan, the new relationship with Coinbase and Gemini is the latest step in what has been a long and
          sometimes acrimonious relationship with digital money. Chief Executive James Dimon has been a high-profile
          critic of bitcoin in the past. But the bank itself experimented extensively with blockchain, bitcoin's underlying
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          technology, and more recently implemented its own digital currency, JPM Coin, for digital payments among
          its clients.                                                            
          Document J000000020200513eg5d00014                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheCoronavirusPandemic:Covid-19SweptThroughJPMorgan'sTradingFloor       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Coronavirus Pandemic: Covid-19 Swept Through JPMorgan's Trading Floor
          By Rob Copeland and David Benoit                                        
          981 words                                                               
          4 April 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          March 9 was supposed to be the start of a new routine for JPMorgan Chase & Co. employees. With
          coronavirus spreading, the bank had told the staff in its stock-trading operation to head to three separate sites
          around New York City.                                                   
          Hours before the workday began, with global markets plunging, technology at the sites wasn't ready.
          JPMorgan top brass reversed the order and told many traders to report for duty, as usual, to the firm's
          Manhattan headquarters, employees said.                                 
          An employee who wasn't feeling well came to the office. JPMorgan traded more shares that Monday than any
          day in the bank's history. The sick employee turned out to have Covid-19, and over the past three weeks,
          about 20 employees on a single floor at the bank's headquarters have tested positive for the virus, with
          another 65 quarantined as a result.                                     
          Wall Street is used to making tough choices in seconds, but the coronavirus pandemic has added a
          dimension of life or death. Amid the wildest trading conditions in more than a decade, banks are loath to fully
          allow the thousands of traders and salespeople who keep the markets humming to work from home. Setups
          in home offices lack the multibillion-dollar technology infrastructure of the trading floor. Even slight delays in
          speed could cost money.                                                 
          Wall Street trading has been deemed an "essential service" by New York authorities, and though the New
          York Stock Exchange has shut its floor, the major banks continue to have some employees report to work.
          For JPMorgan, the consequences of keeping employees in the office have been swift and painful. The
          outbreak has rattled rank-and-file employees, who said they feel the bank took a gamble with their health to
          protect a prized business.                                              
          Traders and salespeople said they feel pressure to come in. Managers, many of whom have stayed in the
          office themselves, have reminded staff that their compensation may be tied to their performance in recent
          weeks.                                                                  
          On Thursday, head of global equities Jason Sippel told subordinates they had a responsibility to come into
          the office, according to a person on the call. "There are risks to personal health, there are risks to public
          health," Mr. Sippel said. "We are called upon to balance."              
          A JPMorgan spokesman said that more than 80% of the firm's traders are working remotely and those in the
          office have been spaced more than 6 feet apart. Employees deemed at risk of infection have been sent
          home. Managers were instructed to tell employees they are free to work remotely, the spokesman said.
          "We recognize how stressful this is for those employees on the front lines who are supporting global
          markets," a spokesman said.                                             
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's coronavirus outbreak is concentrated on the fifth floor of the bank's Madison Avenue
          headquarters, a tight web of desks for those who buy and sell stocks and pitch clients on trades.
          It started with a managing director who came into the office on March 9. He began to feel ill as the day
          progressed, and was coughing at his fifth-floor desk. He stayed home the next day and was tested for the
          coronavirus.                                                            
          JPMorgan brass kept the news tight for a few days. That Friday, the test came back positive. Longtime
          executive Marc Badrichani broke the news to a group of fifth floor traders over the bank's "hoot and holler," an
          intercom system connected to individual desks. Employees crowded around to hear the announcement on a
          handful of speakers, people present said. Mr. Badrichani described the situation as under control.
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Later, the bank told the rest of the trading staff on other floors. The bank followed up with another memo that
          weekend to the whole building, confirming two cases. People who worked on the same floor as a sick
          colleague would be informed, the memo said, but should continue to report to work.
          By then, companies that had been merely advising employees to stay home were now making it mandatory.
          All the while, global markets were haywire. That Thursday, March 12, the S&P 500 posted one of its biggest
          one-day drops in history. Friday brought one of its largest-ever gains. JPMorgan's trading volume was hitting
          records. A group focused on volatility trading made about $1.5 billion in revenue as of late March, employees
          said.                                                                   
          Throughout the week, the bank sent some traders to work in other offices in Brooklyn and New Jersey,
          staggering them to keep from overloading its systems. Some were sent to work from home.
                                                                                  
          Several employees who asked to work from home said they were told that not enough remote computer
          equipment had arrived yet. Some broke into tears when told they were expected to report in-person,
          employees said.                                                         
          The bank's human-resources department put together a document outlining when employees could return to
          work. Those who tested positive were told they could return to the office one week afterward, so long as
          symptoms had subsided, according to a copy of the document reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. The
          policy matched the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
          "A persistent cough alone does not mean you must continue to self-isolate," the document said.
                                                                                  
          On March 20, Gov. Andrew Cuomo ordered all nonessential businesses to close. That weekend, JPMorgan
          threw out its original plans to separate people and said most would work from home.
          But the trading floor has remained open, and some managers continued to press staff to come in, according
          to employees.                                                           
          On Thursday, Mr. Sippel, the bank's global head of equities, said JPMorgan's business would suffer if too
          many employees called out. JPMorgan's rivals were lagging, he said, presenting an opportunity for the bank
          to win business.                                                        
          Document J000000020200404eg4400090                                      
                                                                                  
          