                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Santander Settles Predatory-Loan Cases ..................................................................................... 2
          Esoteric Securities Shake Off Worries About a Recession ...................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:SantanderSettlesPredatory-LoanCases                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Santander Settles Predatory-Loan Cases                   
          By Ben Eisen and AnnaMaria Andriotis                                    
          607 words                                                               
          20 May 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B5                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Santander Consumer USA Inc. has reached a $550 million deal with nearly three dozen states to settle
          charges of predatory auto lending to low-income and subprime borrowers. 
          The settlement, announced Tuesday, resolves charges that one of the largest subprime auto lenders in the
          U.S. made loans borrowers couldn't afford to repay.                     
          The states also claim that Santander failed to monitor dealers that falsified borrowers' incomes and other
          information when submitting loan applications.                          
          "Over the last several years, we have strengthened our risk management across the board -- improving our
          policies and procedures to identify and prevent dealer misconduct, and tightening standards to ensure
          affordability," Santander said in a written statement.                  
          Thirty-three states and the District of Columbia accused Santander of extending loans that were too big
          relative to borrowers' incomes, charging excessive fees and failing to monitor dealership loan-approval
          practices.                                                              
                                                                                  
          California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Santander profited by extending high-interest loans to buyers
          "who were doomed from the start" to default.                            
          The settlement includes $65 million of restitution for consumers.       
          It also involves $433 million in loan forgiveness, including for customers who have had cars repossessed but
          still owe money to Santander.                                           
                                                                                  
          The lender also agreed to waive balances for customers who have very low credit scores and who had
          stopped paying their loans as of the end of last year.                  
          In addition to the penalty, Santander agreed to factor its borrowers' ability to repay its loans into its
          underwriting.                                                           
          It agreed not to fund loans that, when combined with other debt payments and monthly costs, would eat up a
          borrower's entire income.                                               
                                                                                  
          Most auto-loan financing is arranged through dealerships, and lenders that fund the loans are supposed to
          carefully review borrowers' applications.                               
          Lenders have been approving consumers for auto loans that they can't afford, including loans with larger
          monthly payments than borrowers' incomes, The Wall Street Journal reported last year.
                                                                                  
          More consumers are signing up for loans that are larger than their car's purchase price, the Journal reported,
          increasing their chances of default.                                    
          Consumer lawyers say the practices often result in repossessed cars and damaged credit scores that make it
          harder for people to qualify for affordable financing.                  
          Santander didn't verify several numbers in consumers' auto-loan applications that would have determined
          whether they could afford the financing, the states said in their complaints.
                                                                                  
          It accepted stated-income loans without requiring documentation from dealers or consumers that would prove
          the income listed on the application, the states said.                  
          Loan applicants' housing costs were also rarely verified, and Santander didn't have measures in place to
          catch falsified figures, the states alleged.                            
          Page 2 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          When a loan application didn't include housing costs, Santander would assume a lower figure than what was
          reasonable for the area, according to the complaints.                   
          The settlement highlights lenders' reliance on dealerships to boost loan sales.
                                                                                  
          There was internal tension at Santander over how to handle dealerships that were found to have falsified
          applications, according to the states' complaints.                      
          The lender, the states said, tracked problematic dealers but often failed to cut ties with them if they were
          delivering enough profitable loans.                                     
          Santander's loans, which often come with double-digit interest rates, are typically packaged into bonds and
          sold to investors.                                                      
                                                                                  
          Last year, Santander issued $8.3 billion worth of these bonds, more than twice the amount of the next largest
          subprime auto lender, according to data from Finsight.                  
          Santander in 2017 settled claims stemming from its subprime auto-lending practices with the attorneys
          general of Delaware and Massachusetts.                                  
          Document J000000020200520eg5k0000x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EsotericSecuritiesShakeOffWorriesAboutaRecession                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Esoteric Securities Shake Off Worries About a Recession                 
          By Gunjan Banerji and Julia-Ambra Verlaine                              
          900 words                                                               
          28 April 2020                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Investors are snapping up complex securities linked to some of the markets deemed most vulnerable to the
          coronavirus-driven economic slump, a sign that the yearslong reach for yield has survived the market shock.
          Faced with withering share prices and falling yields on safe government bonds, portfolio managers are
          seeking out returns in an array of strategies that in some instances take them into esoteric corners of the
          financial markets. One popular spot is the market for asset-backed securities, typically bonds whose
          payments to investors are generated by the cash flows collected from a large pool of car loans, property
          leases or other agreements.                                             
          Despite worries about a recession, demand for bonds backed by U.S. auto loans has outstripped supply in
          recent days, bankers and investors said. A $1 billion bond marketed this month by Santander Consumer USA
          was sold at yields lower than initially expected, people familiar with the deal said.
          In another closely watched deal, Dell Technologies Inc. last week sold approximately $1.1 billion in debt
          backed by leases on equipment to big and small companies, including computers and servers. Meanwhile,
          sales of structured products geared toward individuals -- including bets on stocks packaged into bonds -- hit a
          decade high in March.                                                   
          The data show that individual and institutional investors remain willing to put money to work, even as
          uncertainty around the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic lingers. Many analysts and traders said
          they have been struck by the extent to which some of these markets appear on the road to recovering their
          full health, just weeks after trading was frozen with the news that many jurisdictions across the U.S. had
          imposed stay-at-home orders and similar measures.                       
          "I'm so shocked that we're here so fast," said Paul Norris, head of structured products at Conning, who
          oversees $20 billion in securitized debt. He attributed the rapid bounceback to the Federal Reserve's
          expansive support for markets, saying he bought asset-backed securities recently because the Fed-inspired
          rally "created an opportunity for a lot of investors."                  
          The current market environment is confounding for many investors, with share prices rebounding even as
          bond yields remain near record lows and oil prices this month briefly fell below zero. Accordingly, investments
          that promise higher and steadier returns remain popular.                
          "That's a constant question from not just individual clients but institutional clients: Where do we go for yield?"
          said Mark Grant, chief global strategist of fixed income at B. Riley FBR Inc. "People want yield, they want
          income, they want money coming in."                                     
          Issuance year to date in asset-backed securities stands at $55 billion, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
          research analysts. That is down from $77 billion over the same period last year, but the pipeline for more
          deals is filling up.                                                    
          The market for asset-backed securities was shut down for nearly four weeks, beginning in mid-March. That
          was a shorter period compared with the depths of the financial crisis, when investors stopped buying
          securitizations for months.                                             
          About $8 billion of subprime auto debt has been issued so far this year, according to JPMorgan, compared
          with $10.1 billion during the same period last year. A total of about $30 billion was issued in 2019, near a
          decade high.                                                            
          When Santander and GM Financial issued bonds backed by auto loans this month, demand for the debt
          outstripped supply, according to bankers at Barclays who led the deals. They were the first to hit since the
          pandemic rattled some of the safest corners of debt markets, including Treasurys and high-grade corporate
          bonds.                                                                  
          Page 4 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The nation's largest used-car retailer, CarMax Inc., successfully priced bonds a week later. Enrique
          Mayor-Mora, chief financial officer of CarMax, said the company was "pleased with investor demand," which
          allowed it to sell more debt than it had originally planned.            
          The heavy interest comes even though the market has grown riskier in light of the coronavirus pandemic.
          Subprime auto debt including some of Santander's is backed by some of the riskiest borrowers with typically
          lower credit scores.                                                    
          Santander recently disclosed that there was a sharp uptick in the number of people seeking payment
          extensions on their auto loans. About 7.5% of the loans backing its debt had received a payment extension in
          March, up from roughly 1% in February, according to JPMorgan. Fitch Ratings recently said that its outlook
          on the auto-loan sector has worsened in light of the coronavirus pandemic.
          Investors have also piled into exchange-traded products offering steady income and dividends, FactSet data
          show, ranging from funds promising consistent stock returns to risky exchange-traded notes offering payouts
          tied to commodities.                                                    
          Issuance of structured products geared toward individual investors hit a decade high in March, the most
          volatile month in the stock market's history, according to industry publication Prospect News.
                                                                                  
          These types of products are built by banks using derivatives and often end up in the hands of individual
          investors who receive a future payout based on the performance of such assets as stocks or commodities.
          In a corner of this market, so-called auto-callable notes have been popular this year, with issuance topping
          $13 billion, according to data from mtn-i. A rise in share prices can trigger redemption of the notes.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020200428eg4s0001y                                      
          