                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banks Look Like Bargains as SVB Scare Abates .................................................................................................... 2
          First Citizens Buys Silicon Valley Bank ................................................................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
          Family-Run Bank to Buy SVB In a Government-Backed Deal ................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BanksLookLikeBargainsasSVBScareAbates                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banks Look Like Bargains as SVB Scare Abates                            
          By Sam Goldfarb                                                         
          1,023 words                                                             
          29 March 2023                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          More investors are betting on a rebound in the banking sector, wagering that regional lenders are in much
          better condition than many initially feared after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.
          The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index of commercial lenders has climbed 2.9% this week, while U.S. Treasury prices
          have dropped, after First Citizens Bancshares reached a deal with federal regulators on Monday to buy large
          pieces of Silicon Valley Bank.                                          
          The run on SVB that started March 9 had sparked a rout in banks and a surge in demand for Treasurys,
          reflecting fears that trouble in the financial sector could hurt the broader economy.
          This week's gain marks the latest sign that Wall Street is warming up to banks again, with their stocks and
          bonds stabilizing and analysts increasingly emboldened to call bottom on the selloff. Over the past two
          weeks, there have been no new bank failures, and most of the concern has focused on just one midsize
          lender, First Republic Bank.                                            
          The situation in the banking sector is fluid, and investors broadly remain on edge. Recent Federal Reserve
          data have shown a sizable shift in deposits from smaller to larger banks, while unnamed banks have also
          rushed to borrow from the Fed, acting out of precaution or financial pressure.
          Still, many investors challenge the notion that there is any fundamental, widespread problem on the asset
          side of bank balance sheets -- a view that gives them confidence that deposit flight will abate and that a
          still-strong U.S. economy will survive the latest in what has been a string of recession scares.
          One of SVB's problems was that it faced large unrealized losses on its portfolio of government-backed bonds
          thanks to last year's jump in interest rates. But no other major bank faces nearly the same amount of losses
          relative to its size, these investors point out. In addition, such bonds are still essentially guaranteed to be paid
          in full when they mature, and banks can now borrow against them from the Fed at their face value -- making
          them worlds apart from the toxic mortgage assets that sank lenders in the late 2000s.
          Investors remain nervous about regional bank stocks, partly because many had doubts about them even
          before this month, but there is a sense in the market that "some of these things have taken too much of a
          beating," said Brett Rabatin, head of equity research at Hovde Group.   
          Ryan Jungk, investment-grade corporate sector manager at Newfleet Asset Management, said his team
          started buying regional bank bonds last week, playing down typical concerns such as the exact maturity of
          the bonds to speed up the process.                                      
                                                                                  
          He briefly worried about competition when the research firm CreditSights published a report arguing that
          investors had a "once-in-a-decade opportunity" to buy the bonds of regional banks, stating that the market
          "appears to be pricing a fundamental bank crisis that we're increasingly doubtful actually exists in any real
          breadth." But to Mr. Jungk's relief, the CreditSights report didn't immediately spark a big rally and he still
          could buy more bonds over the next two days at prices he found extremely attractive.
          "The underlying asset quality is good," said Mr. Jungk. Largely for that reason, he added, "I really do think
          that confidence builds back up here" to the point that a month from now, "we're going to probably say, 'OK,
          that was kind of a weird week.'"                                        
          The recent fears about the banking sector haven't hit all markets equally.
          For all the turmoil, the S&P 500 is roughly unchanged since SVB's collapse, as declines in economically
          sensitive sectors have been balanced out by gains in sectors seen as more insulated from a potential
          downturn, such as information technology and utilities.                 
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Elsewhere, though, U.S. government bonds have staged one of their biggest rallies of recent decades,
          reflecting investor bets that the banking problems will slow economic growth and likely force the Federal
          Reserve to pivot from fighting inflation to slashing interest rates.    
          The declines in the stocks and bonds of banks have also been severe. Even after this week's gains, the KBW
          Nasdaq Bank Index is still down 22% since March 8. As of Friday, the average extra yield that investors
          demanded to hold regional bank bonds over U.S. Treasurys had jumped to 2.71 percentage points from 1.08
          percentage points, according to CreditSights.                           
          Some analysts argue that bonds may have an easier time recovering because all that matters for debt
          investors is that banks remain solvent and capable of making their debt payments. Bank shares, by contrast,
          could be dragged down by lowered earnings expectations, as investors weigh the threat of more stringent
          regulations and pressure to increase deposit rates.                     
          In a threat to both bonds and stocks, investors have recently become much more worried about banks'
          exposure to commercial mortgages, the value of which has been threatened by rising interest rates and a
          shift to hybrid work arrangements.                                      
          Michael Collins, a senior portfolio manager at PGIM Fixed Income, said his team was still very cautious about
          buying regional bank bonds in part because of their concern about the outlook for commercial real estate.
          He also cited a broader worry, which is that "you can't underestimate the impact of human behavior and
          panic."                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Others, though, are feeling more confident.                             
          Thanos Bardas, global co-head of investment-grade fixed income at Neuberger Berman, said on Friday that
          he had recently reduced exposure to short-term Treasurys and added Treasury inflation-protected securities
          on the belief that easing bank worries will spur a rebound in investor expectations for both interest rates and
          inflation.                                                              
          That move paid off Monday, as short-term Treasurys sold off sharply, driving the yield on the two-year note to
          its fourth-largest one-day gain of the past decade.                     
                                                                                  
          Much of the worry about banks is centered on their unrealized losses in "fixed income investments, which are
          high-quality investments, for God's sake," Mr. Bardas said.             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230329ej3t0001t                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FirstCitizensBuysSiliconValleyBank                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          First Citizens Buys Silicon Valley Bank                                 
          By Andrew Ackerman                                                      
          988 words                                                               
          28 March 2023                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          First Citizens Bancshares Inc., one of the nation's largest regional banks, is buying large pieces of Silicon
          Valley Bank more than two weeks after the lender's collapse sent tremors through the banking system.
          The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said First Citizens is acquiring all of Silicon Valley Bank's deposits,
          loans and branches, which opened Monday morning under the new ownership.
          The purchase includes $56.5 billion in deposits and about $72 billion of SVB's loans at a discount of $16.5
          billion. Some $90 billion of SVB's securities will remain in receivership.
          Regulators took control of Santa Clara, Calif.-based SVB on March 10. The collapse sparked a panic that led
          to the weekend failure of Signature Bank and a dramatic intervention by financial regulators aimed at easing
          fears that depositors would flee smaller lenders.                       
          The sale represents a milestone in regulatory efforts to clean up after two of the largest bank failures in
          history, at a time when investors are on edge about the health of the global financial system. Lawmakers are
          set to begin two days of hearings on the failures, beginning Tuesday in the Senate Banking Committee. A
          second hearing is set for Wednesday in the House.                       
          Shares of First Citizens surged more than 50% on Monday. Shares of other regional banks including First
          Republic Bank, PacWest Bancorp and WesternAlliance Bancorp were also higher.
                                                                                  
          First Citizens, based in Raleigh, N.C., was the 30th-largest U.S. bank as of Dec. 31, 2022, with $109 billion in
          assets, according to the Federal Reserve. Monday's deal puts the lender in the top 25 U.S. banks in terms of
          assets.                                                                 
          The FDIC agreed to share any of First Citizens' losses or potential gains on SVB's commercial loans. Overall,
          the FDIC estimated the failure of SVB will cost a federal insurance fund it oversees about $20 billion, or
          roughly 10% of the bank's assets before its failure.                    
          "We look forward to building relationships with our new customers and positioning our company for continued
          success as we affirm our commitment to support the integrity of our nation's banking system," First Citizens
          Chief Executive Frank Holding Jr. said in a news release.               
          The bank has at least one thing going for it: It knows its way around troubled banks. During the financial crisis
          of 2008, when lenders were failing left and right, it took on the deposits of Temecula Valley Bank in California
          and Venture Bank in Washington. It did the same for Sun American Bank in Florida and United Western Bank
          in Colorado. The SVB deal is its 22nd with federal agencies, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
          "They were a frequent bidder" during the financial crisis, said John Popeo, a lawyer who helped sell failed
          banks for the FDIC at the time and is now a partner at advisory firm the Gallatin Group. "I recall them having
          a pretty good reputation."                                              
          First Citizens isn't known for technology banking, the bread-and-butter business of SVB, but its headquarters
          are at the center of a regional tech hub.                               
                                                                                  
          The bank has expanded rapidly in recent years, particularly in commercial banking. The SVB purchase will
          give it a banking presence in California and a wealth-management business in the Northeast.
          On top of the loss-sharing agreement, the FDIC will help finance the deal with a five-year, $35 billion loan.
          The agency also is providing a $70 billion line of credit to help cover potential deposit flight.
                                                                                  
          "It looks to me like a pretty substantial support network around this transaction," said Alexander Rolfe, a
          former FDIC official who is now a consultant. That could set a precedent for future deals, he said.
          Page 5 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The worries about American banks have centered on regional lenders that are perceived to be subject to the
          threat of deposit flight. Both SVB and Signature had large amounts of uninsured deposits -- or customers with
          more than the standard insurance cap of $250,000 per depositor.         
          First Republic Bank, a San Francisco lender that also has a large uninsured deposit base, has been in the
          crosshairs despite efforts to bolster its health. The bank has hired advisers to consider its options, but its
          bonds continue to trade at distressed levels.                           
          Officials both in the U.S. and in Europe have taken steps to attempt to shore up confidence in the global
          financial system. The U.S. moved to back uninsured depositors of Signature and Silicon Valley Bank
          following their failure, in a bid to ease the anxieties of similar depositors at other banks. The FDIC last week
          sold "substantially all" of the deposits and some of the loans of Signature Bank to a unit of New York
          Community BancorpInc.                                                   
          Swiss officials a week ago engineered a takeover of Credit Suisse Group AG by its rival UBS Group AG,
          following a period of intense customer flight from Credit Suisse that raised concerns about the entire Swiss
          economy. Afterward, officials said they believed banks were safe and sound.
          At the same time, deposits continued to depart smaller U.S. banks following a surge in inflows during the
          Covid-19 pandemic.                                                      
          Silicon Valley Bank failed because its core business of banking venture-capital firms and their startups was
          bleeding funds, creating a continuing cash need. The bank had invested heavily in long-term bonds whose
          value was badly hurt by the Fed's interest-rate increases over the past year.
                                                                                  
          SVB's implosion marks the biggest test to date of the post-financial-crisis regulatory architecture designed to
          force banks to curtail risk.                                            
          "Fundamentally, the banking system is sound," said Neel Kashkari, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
          Minneapolis, speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation" on Sunday. "The banking system has a lot of capital to be
          able to withstand these pressures."                                     
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Ben Eisen and Rachel Louise Ensign contributed to this article.         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230328ej3s0001l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Family-RunBanktoBuySVBInaGovernment-BackedDeal                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Family-Run Bank to Buy SVB In a Government-Backed Deal                  
          By Lauren Hirsch                                                        
          1,284 words                                                             
          28 March 2023                                                           
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Banking regulators, which announced the deal late Sunday, had been looking for a buyer since seizing
          control of the failed bank.                                             
          First Citizens BancShares, a family-run bank in North Carolina that traces its history to the late 1800s, said on
          Sunday that it would acquire Silicon Valley Bank, the California lender founded in the 1980s at the center of
          the technology industry, whose rapid growth and sudden collapse this month sent shock waves across the
          financial sector.                                                       
          The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized control of Silicon Valley Bank on March 10, after a run on
          deposits left it insolvent, making it the country's largest bank failure since the 2008 financial crisis. The
          F.D.I.C. had since been looking for a buyer for the bank, which was the country's 16th largest when it
          collapsed.                                                              
          The deal for the bank, renamed Silicon Valley Bridge Bank after the F.D.I.C. seized it, included the purchase
          of about $72 billion in loans, at a discount of $16.5 billion, and the transfer of all the bank's deposits, worth
          $56 billion. Roughly $90 billion in Silicon Valley Bank's securities and other assets were not included in the
          sale, and remained in the F.D.I.C.'s control.                           
          The discount applied to the loans could help set a benchmark for other banks seeking investment, said Mark
          Jeffrey Flannery, a professor of finance at the University of Florida. ''Now they have an idea,'' he said. ''Yes,
          it's bad, but it's not a complete train wreck. It's just very bad.''    
          Silicon Valley Bank had roughly $175 billion in deposits before its collapse, an illustration of how extensive
          the withdrawals were before regulators seized it. A test for First Citizens is whether it can maintain
          relationships with the tech-heavy client base that Silicon Valley Bank cultivated.
          ''Perhaps the Silicon Valley V.C. dudes feel they're too cool for a North Carolina bank,'' wrote analysts at
          Autonomous Research, who said they had been fielding questions from investors about the logic of the deal.
          ''Admittedly, there has been a strong amount of runoff from the legacy Silicon Valley Bank this quarter,'' Craig
          Nix, the chief financial officer of First Citizens, said on a call with investors on Monday. ''However, it is our
          intent to embrace the talents of our legacy SVB employees, embrace their business capabilities and then
          reiterate to their clients that First Citizens has an unwavering focus on holistic client relationships.''
          As part of the deal, the F.D.I.C. will receive rights linked to the stock of First Citizens, which could be worth up
          to $500 million. The bank regulator estimated that the cost of Silicon Valley Bank's failure on the
          government's deposit insurance fund would be $20 billion.               
                                                                                  
          First Citizens and the F.D.I.C. will share any losses on the loans included in the transaction, an arrangement
          that is often featured in sales of failed banks. For example, the F.D.I.C. agreed to reimburse First Citizens for
          half of any losses above $5 billion on the portfolio of commercial loans transferred in the deal.
          Silicon Valley Bank's 17 former branches, in California and Massachusetts, opened under ownership of the
          First Citizens umbrella on Monday.                                      
          Silicon Valley Bank's former parent company, SVB Financial, filed for bankruptcy on March 17. It plans to run
          a separate process to sell various units, including the investment manager SVB Capital and the brokerage
          firm SVB Securities.                                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank set off tremors across the global financial sector as panicked depositors
          and investors hammered other banks.                                     
          On March 19, New York Community Bancorp acquired parts of Signature Bank a week after the F.D.I.C.
          seized its operations. The deal included around $38 billion in assets, including $12.9 billion in loans,
          purchased at a discount of $2.7 billion. The F.D.I.C. estimated that the bank's collapse would cost the
          government's deposit insurance fund $2.5 billion.                       
          Around the same time, Switzerland's largest bank, UBS, agreed to buy its beleaguered rival Credit Suisse for
          about $3.2 billion, in a deal hastily arranged by the Swiss government. With the collapse of Silicon Valley
          Bank spooking the markets, investors quickly lost faith in Credit Suisse, which had been plagued for years by
          scandals and mismanagement. The fears also spread to other banks in Europe, prompting officials to
          emphasize the strength of rules and strictness of oversight in the region.
          Banking regulators around the world have moved to shore up confidence in the system. Central banks in the
          United States, Canada, Britain, Switzerland, the eurozone and Japan said they would make U.S. dollar
          financing more readily available. The Federal Reserve also set up an emergency lending program to provide
          additional support to banks.                                            
          U.S. regulators said all depositors at Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank would be paid back in full, and
          some lawmakers have since pushed for raising or even eliminating the $250,000 cap on deposit insurance. A
          rapid loss of deposits at midsize banks led some, like First Republic and PacWest, to tap loan facilities and
          seek other deals to shore up their balance sheets.                      
          Shares of midsize lenders, which have taken a beating since Silicon Valley Bank's collapse, jumped on
          Monday. First Republic rose 12 percent, and First Citizens soared more than 53 percent. After the bump, First
          Citizens became one of the few banks whose stock was in positive territory for the year.
          Several analysts raised their price targets for the shares of First Citizens after the Silicon Valley Bank deal
          was announced; strategists at Janney Montgomery Scott, for instance, said the acquisition increased their
          estimate of the ''fair value'' of the bank's shares by 60 percent.      
          First Citizens, based in Raleigh, N.C., has more than 500 branches across 22 states. The bank was founded
          in 1898, and describes itself as the largest family-controlled bank in the United States. Members of the same
          family have run it for three generations.                               
                                                                                  
          The bank said on Monday that deposits had grown by $1.3 billion since the start of the year. After the deal,
          the bank said it would have more than $40 billion in cash on hand.      
          The bank has grown significantly in recent years, in part by acquiring more than 20 government-seized
          lenders. The bank's assets grew to more than $100 billion from about $20 billion a decade ago, and the
          Silicon Valley Bank takeover is set to double its assets at a stroke.   
          First Citizens was the 30th-largest bank in the United States, in terms of assets, at the end of last year. After
          the acquisition, it is set to enter the top 20.                         
          The deal deepens First Citizens' footprint in California and includes Silicon Valley Bank's wealth management
          business, which catered to many technology executives who ran large parts of their personal finances
          through the bank.                                                       
                                                                                  
          ''We have partnered with the F.D.I.C. to successfully complete more F.D.I.C.-assisted transactions since
          2009 than any other bank, and we appreciate the confidence the F.D.I.C. has placed in us once again,'' Frank
          B. Holding Jr., the chief executive of First Citizens, said in a statement.
          The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank was the largest bank failure in the United States since the 2008 financial
          crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON WOJACK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in
          print on page B1, B3.                                                   
          Document NYTF000020230328ej3s0004o                                      
          