 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction therewith. 

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in significant deterioration and disruption in national and local economic conditions and record levels of unemployment, which may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic is creating extensive disruptions to the global economy, to businesses, and to the lives of individuals throughout the world. Federal and state governments are taking unprecedented actions to contain the spread of the disease, including quarantines, travel bans, shelter-in-place orders, closures of businesses and schools, fiscal stimulus, and legislation designed to deliver monetary aid and other relief. Although in various locations some of the activity restrictions listed above have been relaxed with progressive success, in many geographies the number of individuals diagnosed with COVID-19 has significantly increased causing a freezing or even reversal of the relaxation of activity restrictions. The cessation of stay-at-home orders in Wisconsin, Illinois, and Minnesota, and the relaxation of various activity restrictions, has caused a heightened resurgence of COVID-19 in these geographies. This resurgence has heightened pressure on state officials to reverse the relaxation of activity restrictions, which causes further uncertain economic conditions and could lead again to a shutdown of businesses and operations. 

The uncertain economic conditions and various activity restrictions due to COVID-19 have resulted in an extremely challenging operating environment for many businesses, and the complete shutdown of others, as well as record levels of unemployment. The national unemployment rate was 11.1% as of June 2020, which while down from 14.7% in April 2020, remains significantly higher than the pre-pandemic 3.6% in January 2020. Further, the Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation, which under Section 2104 of the CARES Act allows for additional payments to covered individuals of up to $600 per week, is set to end July 31, 2020 and it is uncertain whether and to what extent the benefit will be renewed by Congress. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is rapidly evolving and the ultimate impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken currently or in the future by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic. And while there have been trillions of dollars in economic stimulus packages initiated by the Federal Reserve and the federal government, including the $2 trillion CARES Act, as expanded by the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, in an effort to counteract the significant economic disruption from COVID-19, there can be no assurance that these packages are sufficient, or have worked quickly enough, to stimulate the economy, and additional governmental stimulus may be needed. Accordingly, the Corporation will be operating under uncertain economic conditions for a lengthy period of time. 

Additionally the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected the financial markets and has resulted in a number of Federal Reserve actions. Market interest rates have declined significantly. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve reduced the target federal funds rate to a range of 0.00% to 0.25%, the lowest since the 2008 economic crisis, and announced a $700 billion quantitative easing program in response to the expected economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. At its June 2020 meeting, the Federal Reserve continued its commitment to these policies, indicating that the target federal funds rate would remain until the economy had weathered recent events and was on track to achieve FOMC maximum-employment and price stability goals and that the FOMC would have to maintain highly accommodative financial conditions for many years to quicken meaningfully the recovery from the current severe downturn. In addition, the Federal Reserve reduced the interest that it pays on excess reserves. These reductions in interest rates, especially if prolonged, could adversely affect our net interest income, net interest spread and net interest margin. Further, the overall impact of COVID-19 on the financial markets could result in a significant decline in the market value of the Corporation's common stock, which may cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test in between annual tests. If that impairment test indicates that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount, we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business activities as a result of new government and regulatory policies, programs and guidelines, as well as market reactions to such activities, remains uncertain. 

Because there have been no comparable recent global pandemics that resulted in a similar global impact, we do not yet know the full extent of COVID-19's effects on our business, operations, or the global economy as a whole. Any future development will be highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our remote working arrangements, third party providers' ability to support our operations, and any action taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. The uncertain future development of this crisis could materially and adversely affect our business, operations, operating results, financial condition, liquidity or capital levels. 

Regulatory and governmental actions to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including required loan forbearances and restrictions on evictions, could result in a material decline in our earnings. There have been a number of recent bank regulatory actions and legislative changes intended to help mitigate the adverse economic impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including mandates requiring financial institutions to work constructively with borrowers affected by COVID-19. In addition, the governors of many states in which we do business or in which our borrowers and loan collateral are located have issued temporary bans on evictions and foreclosures. Although Wisconsin and Minnesota's temporary ban on all residential and commercial evictions and foreclosures have expired, Illinois has extended its ban through August 22, 2020, and many localities have taken independent regulatory action. In addition, we have implemented the following programs to assist our borrowers and other customers in mitigating the impact of COVID-19: consumer and commercial loan and credit card deferral programs, suspension of certain transaction and late fees, and the suspension of foreclosures and repossessions. 

At the federal level, Section 4022 of the CARES Act allows, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed one-to-four family mortgage loans experiencing a financial hardship due to COVID-19 to request forbearance, regardless of delinquency status, for up to 360 days. Section 4022 also prohibits servicers of federally-backed mortgage loans from initiating foreclosures during the 60-day period beginning March 18, 2020. In addition, under Section 4023 of the CARES Act, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed multifamily mortgage loans whose payments were current as of February 1, 2020, but who have since experienced financial hardship due to COVID-19, may request a forbearance for up to 90 days. Borrowers receiving such forbearance may not evict or charge late fees to tenants for its duration. These regulatory and legislative actions may be expanded, extended and amended as the pandemic and its economic impact develop. 

As a result of the forbearance and mitigation programs described above, we have experienced a significant decline in borrower loan payments, which may continue into the future and have a material impact on our earnings. 

We expect our loan portfolios to be significantly affected by the response to COVID-19 and our allowance for credit losses on loans may not be sufficient to cover losses in our portfolios. The economic shutdown in response to COVID-19 may result in a significant increase in delinquencies across all of our loan portfolios, particularly our commercial loan portfolio as activity and travel restrictions have caused many businesses to close, either temporarily or permanently, or substantially reduce operations, which will adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. In particular, our commercial loan portfolio includes $2.2 billion, representing 9% of total loans, to borrowers in key industries which may see elevated risk as a result of the current economic dynamics. These key exposures include: $1.2 billion of loans to retailers and shopping centers, $432 million to oil &#38; gas producers, $225 million of loans to borrowers in the hotel industry, $120 million to restaurant related borrowers, and approximately $256 million across various exposures, which have been significantly impacted by the activity and travel restrictions. The elevated unemployment rate will continue to have a significant adverse impact on the ability of our residential and multi-family borrowers to repay their loans. 

As a result of our evaluation of the current and expected impacts of COVID-19 on our loan portfolios, we believe that our loan losses and delinquencies will significantly exceed what we anticipated when our ACLL was established at the end of 2019. As a result, we have increased our ACLL by $205 million to $429 million for the first six months of 2020, compared to $223 million at the end of 2019. As the economic impact due to COVID-19 has been experienced in recent weeks and there are no assurances as to how long it will be before the COVID-19 pandemic abates and economic activity can begin to resume to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels, there is no assurance that we will not need to significantly add to our loan loss reserves in future periods. 

Current and future restrictions on our workforce's access to our facilities could limit our ability to meet customer servicing expectations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In response to COVID-19, we have modified our business practices with a portion of our employees working remotely from their homes to have our operations uninterrupted as much as possible. We also have contingency plans in place to ensure continuity of management and operations in the event that members of our senior management or employees become ill due to COVID-19. However, notwithstanding the protective measures and plans we have in place, our employees and their families may still be affected by COVID-19. If a significant number of our employees or if key individuals become unable to work or to perform their jobs properly due to COVID-19, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we rely on third party vendors to provide key components of our business infrastructure. If any of these third party vendors experience significant disruption as a result of 

COVID-19, they may not be able to provide their services properly or in a timely manner, which could also adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Further, technology in employees' homes may not be as robust as in our offices and could cause the networks, information systems, applications, and other tools available to employees to be more limited or less reliable than in our offices. The continuation of these work-from-home measures also introduces additional operation risk, including increased cybersecurity risk. These cyber risks include greater phishing, malware, and other cybersecurity attacks, vulnerability to disruptions of our information technology infrastructure and telecommunications systems for remote operations, increased risk of unauthorized dissemination of confidential information, limited ability to restore the systems in the event of a systems failure or interruption, greater risk of a security breach resulting in destruction or misuse of valuable information, and potential impairment of our ability to perform critical functions, including wiring funds, all of which could expose us to risks of data or financial loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and the operations of any impacted customers. 

We have originated a significant number of loans under the SBA&#8217;s Paycheck Protection Program, which may result in a large number of such loans remaining on our consolidated balance sheets at a very low yield for an extended period of time. We are a significant participant as a lender under the SBA&#8217;s PPP established under the CARES Act. The PPP authorizes financial institutions to make federally-guaranteed loans to qualifying small businesses and non-profit organizations. These loans carry an interest rate of 1% per annum and a maturity of 2 years for loans originated prior to June 5, 2020 and 5 years for loans originated on or after June 5th. The PPP provides that such loans may be forgiven if the borrowers meet certain requirements with respect to maintaining employee headcount and payroll and the use of the loan proceeds after the loan is originated. If not forgiven, these loans will be guaranteed by the SBA under the SBA&#8217;s section 7(a) program. As of August 2, 2020, we had PPP loans with outstanding balances of $1.0 billion. In light of the speed at which the PPP was implemented, particularly due to the &#8220;first come first served&#8221; nature of the program, the loans originated under this program may present potential fraud risk, increasing the risk that loan forgiveness may not be obtained by the borrowers and that the guaranty may not be honored. In addition, there is risk that the borrowers may not qualify for the loan forgiveness feature due to the conduct of the borrower after the loan is originated. These factors may result in us having to hold a significant amount of these low-yield loans on our books for a significant period of time. Additionally, the PPP loans are not secured by an interest in a borrower's assets or otherwise backed by personal guarantees. We will continue to face increased operational demands and pressures as we monitor and service our book of PPP loans, process applications for loan forgiveness and pursue recourse under the SBA guarantees and against borrowers for PPP loan defaults. 

The OCC has also recently issued guidance encouraging banks to follow prudent banking practices consistent with safety and soundness principles in making PPP loans, including by thoroughly documenting the bank's decisions when setting eligibility criteria, establishing a process for considering applications and approving or denying PPP loan applications, as well as identifying and tracking PPP loan volumes. The guidance also states that, in exercising supervisory and enforcement responsibilities in this area, the OCC will take into account the unique circumstances resulting from the national emergency and good faith efforts to comply with applicable legal requirements. Thus, while the PPP guidelines provide that lenders may rely on borrower representations and certifications regarding eligibility with respect to PPP loans and do not need to verify information provided, the OCC guidance makes clear that banks are still expected to prudently underwrite, document and track PPP loans in a manner consistent with safe and sound banking practices and could face supervisory or enforcement risks in failing to do so. As a result of participation in the PPP, we may be subject to litigation and claims by borrowers under the PPP loans that we have made, as well as investigation and scrutiny by our regulators, Congress, the SBA, the U.S. Treasury Department and other government agencies. 

Regardless of whether these claims and investigations are founded or unfounded, if such claims and investigations are not resolved in a timely manner favorable to us, they may result in significant costs and liabilities (including increased legal and professional services costs) and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services. 

Also, we have registered as a lender in the MSLP, which is a program among the many financing and liquidity programs that the Federal Reserve, on its own and in cooperation with the Department of the Treasury, has established. The MSLP is intended to keep credit flowing to small and mid-sized businesses that were in sound financial condition before the coronavirus pandemic but now need financing to maintain operations. MSLP lenders retain 5% of such loans, with the remaining 95% being participated to a special purpose vehicle established for the program. The interest rate on MSLP loans currently is one- or three-month LIBOR plus 3%. Although the MSLP provides for deferral of interest and principal payments, unlike the PPP it does not provide loan forgiveness or any other government guaranty on the 5% retention amount. Participation in the MSLP may also present credit and other operational risks that cannot currently be estimated. 

Risks Related to Oil and Gas Industry 

We may be adversely affected by declines in oil prices. Ongoing volatility in the oil and gas markets has compressed margins for many U.S.-based oil producers and others in the oil and gas industry. Our oil and gas portfolio is comprised of 35 credits made to small and mid-sized companies. These borrowers are likely to be adversely affected by price volatility or a downturn in oil and gas prices. During the first quarter of 2020, there was a drastic decrease in crude oil prices as a result of the reported 

dispute between Russia and Saudi Arabia regarding oil production levels, which could result in a material adverse impact on such borrowers. As of June 30, 2020, our oil and gas loan exposure was $609 million of commitments with $432 million outstanding, representing less than 2% of our loan portfolio. The ACLL related to this portfolio was 19.4% at June 30, 2020, compared to 16.6% at March 31, 2020. A significant deterioration in our oil and gas loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. An increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from these loans, one or more additional increases in the provision for credit losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

