 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

Old National, the financial holding company of Old National Bank, our wholly-owned banking subsidiary (&#8220;Old National Bank&#8221;), is incorporated in the state of Indiana and maintains its principal executive office in Evansville, Indiana. Through our wholly-owned banking subsidiary, we provide a wide range of services, including commercial and consumer loan and depository services, private banking, brokerage, trust, investment advisory, and other traditional banking services. 

On May 30, 2021, Old National and First Midwest entered into a definitive merger agreement to combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction to create a premier Midwestern bank with approximately $45 billion of combined assets. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, First Midwest and Old National will merge, with Old National continuing as the surviving entity and dual headquarters in Evansville, Indiana and Chicago, Illinois. We received approval of the merger from the OCC, the Federal Reserve, and the shareholders of both Old National and First Midwest. The merger is expected to occur after the close of business and after the end of regular trading hours on the NASDAQ Stock Market on February 15, 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. 

The merger of equals of Old National and First Midwest partners two highly compatible organizations with over 270 combined years of service and a shared relationship banking focus, consistent business models and credit cultures, and an unwavering commitment to community. The combined organization will have a presence in six of the largest metropolitan markets in the Midwest. 

First Midwest Bank, which is First Midwest&#8217;s principal subsidiary, currently provides a full range of commercial, treasury management, equipment leasing, consumer, wealth management, trust and private banking products and services through approximately 110 locations in metropolitan Chicago, southeast Wisconsin, northwest Indiana, central and western Illinois and eastern Iowa, and other markets in the Midwest. 

COMPANY PROFILE 

Old National Bank was founded in 1834 and is the oldest company in Evansville, Indiana. In 1982, Old National Bancorp was formed and in 2001 we became a financial holding company. We are currently the largest financial holding company headquartered in the state of Indiana with consolidated assets of $24.5 billion at December 31, 2021. 

At December 31, 2021, Old National Bank operated 162 banking centers located primarily in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Each of the banking centers of Old National Bank provide a group of similar community banking services, including such products and services as commercial, real estate, and consumer loans, time deposits, checking and savings accounts, cash management, brokerage, trust, and investment advisory services. The individual banking centers located throughout our Midwest footprint have similar operating and economic characteristics. 

We earn interest income on loans as well as fee income from the origination of loans. Lending activities include loans to individuals, which primarily consist of home equity lines of credit, residential real estate loans, and consumer loans, and loans to commercial clients, which include commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, letters of credit, and lease financing. Residential real estate loans are either kept in our loan portfolio or sold to secondary investors, with gains or losses from the sales being recognized. 

We strive to serve individuals and commercial clients by providing depository services that fit their needs at competitive rates. We pay interest on the interest-bearing deposits and receive service fee revenue on various accounts. Deposit accounts include products such as noninterest-bearing demand, interest-bearing checking and NOW, savings and money market, and time deposits. Debit and ATM cards provide clients with access to their accounts 24 hours a day at any ATM location. We also provide 24-hour telephone access and online banking as well as other electronic and mobile banking services. 

In addition to the community banking services of lending and providing deposit services, we offer comprehensive wealth management, investment, and foreign currency services. For businesses, we provide treasury management, 

merchant, health savings, and capital markets services as well as community development lending and equity investment solutions intended to produce jobs and revitalize our communities. 

During 2021, we implemented certain revenue initiatives for our technology, Commercial, Wealth, Treasury Management, and Community areas, as previously disclosed as part of our ONB Way strategic initiative. 

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES 

At December 31, 2021, we employed 2,374 full-time equivalent team members. Old National respects, values, and welcomes diversity in our team members, clients, suppliers, and marketplace. We seek to recognize the unique contribution each individual brings to our company, and we are fully committed to supporting a rich culture of diversity as a cornerstone to our success. Old National provides professional development opportunities to team members and seeks to improve retention, development, and job satisfaction of team members from diverse groups by providing career skills training, peer mentoring, and opportunities to interact with senior leaders. In addition to our standard benefits, our team members have access to dedicated healthcare clinics and alternative work schedules for maternity, paternity, and foster-care leave. 

Old National team members actively share their talents in their communities through volunteer activities in education, economic development, human and health services, and Community Reinvestment. We have a program that allows each team member to be paid up to 24 hours per year, with supervisory approval, to volunteer for activities in their community during normal work hours. During 2021, team members logged nearly 39,500 hours in support of more than 1,500 organizations. Even during the COVID-19 pandemic, Old National team members have found creative ways to give back to their communities by donating blood, making masks for healthcare workers, and serving on local boards, just to name a few. Team member volunteers are recognized for their efforts on our Corporate Portal. Team members with 25 hours or more of service each year join the &#8220;Volunteer Honor Roll&#8221; in Old National&#8217;s annual communications. 

We are committed and focused on the health and safety of our team members, clients, and communities. The COVID-19 pandemic has presented challenges to maintain team member and client safety while continuing to be open for business. Accordingly, we have taken a variety of steps to support individuals and businesses impacted by the economic shock of COVID-19. This includes policy and procedural changes for our team members, hardship support and PPP assistance for our clients, and monetary and volunteer help for our community partners. 

We believe the merger with First Midwest will enable the combined entity to build on both organizations&#8217; longstanding history of service, enhance its ability to champion community initiatives and drive positive change throughout its footprint. From First Midwest&#8217;s multiple recognitions as a Best Place to Work to Old National&#8217;s 10-year run as one of the World&#8217;s Most Ethical companies, the combined institution will remain committed to fostering a strong culture of collaboration and trust, empowering its employees to flourish. 

MARKET AREA 

We own the largest bank headquartered in Indiana. Operating from a home base in Evansville, Indiana, we have continued to grow our footprint in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Since the beginning of 2011, Old National has transformed its franchise by reducing low-return businesses and low-growth markets and investing in higher-growth markets. 

The following table reflects information on the top markets we currently serve. 

##TABLE_START Metropolitan Statistical Area Deposits as a Percent of Old National Bank Franchise (%) Deposits Per Branch ($M) 2010-2022 Population Change (%) 2022-2027 Projected Population Change (%) 2022 Median Household Income ($) 2022-2027 Projected Household Income Change (%) Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI 21.6 138.8 12.2 4.5 92,084 10.6 Evansville, IN-KY 16.5 185.3 2.0 1.6 61,866 8.5 Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson, IN 10.0 89.4 12.9 4.0 71,008 13.5 Bloomington, IN 5.1 183.6 7.0 2.7 59,439 13.1 Madison, WI 4.8 78.3 13.4 4.2 83,342 10.6 Terre Haute, IN 3.2 113.0 (2.1) 0.4 55,050 8.8 Ann Arbor, MI 2.5 111.3 7.6 2.2 84,529 11.7 Jasper, IN 2.3 82.0 0.9 1.4 64,218 6.4 Fort Wayne, IN 2.3 102.0 8.9 3.6 65,047 11.6 Grand Rapids-Kentwood, MI 2.2 96.4 11.1 3.4 71,891 10.4 National average 8.3 &#160; 3.2 &#160; 72,465 &#160; 12.1 &#160; Weighted average total Old National Bank 6.3 &#160; 2.6 &#160; 70,601 &#160; 10.2 &#160; ##TABLE_END

Source: S&#38;P Global Market Intelligence 

STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS 

Since the formation of Old National in 1982, we have acquired over 50 financial institutions and other financial services businesses. Future acquisitions and divestitures will be driven by a disciplined financial evaluation process and will be consistent with the existing basic banking strategy, which focuses on community banking, client relationships, and consistent quality earnings. Targeted geographic markets for acquisitions include mid-size markets with average to above average growth rates. 

We anticipate that, as with previous acquisitions, the consideration paid by us in future acquisitions may be in the form of cash, debt, or Old National stock, or a combination thereof. The amount and structure of such consideration is based on reasonable growth and cost savings assumptions and a thorough analysis of the impact on both long- and short-term financial results. 

On May 30, 2021, Old National entered into a definitive merger agreement with First Midwest to combine in an all-stock merger of equals transaction. Under the terms of the merger agreement, which were unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies and subsequently approved by the shareholders of both companies, First Midwest stockholders will receive 1.1336 shares of Old National common stock for each share of First Midwest common stock they own. Holders of First Midwest Common Stock will receive cash in lieu of fractional shares. Each share of 7.000% fixed-rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A, no par value, and each share of 7.000% fixed-rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series C, no par value, of First Midwest will be converted into the right to receive one share of a newly created series of preferred stock of Old National having terms that are not materially less favorable than the outstanding First Midwest preferred stock. Following completion of the transaction, former First Midwest stockholders are expected to collectively represent approximately 44% of the combined company. The new organization will operate under the Old National Bancorp and Old National Bank names, with corporate headquarters located in Evansville, Indiana and commercial and consumer banking operations headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. With all necessary regulatory and shareholder approvals received, the merger is expected to occur after the close of business and after the end of regular trading hours on the NASDAQ Stock Market on February 15, 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. 

Our other most recent acquisitions included the following: 

&#8226; Anchor Bank, N.A., headquartered in the Twin Cities, through a stock and cash consideration merger on November 1, 2017 that added 17 banking centers in Minnesota; and 

&#8226; Minnesota-based Klein through a 100% stock consideration merger on November 1, 2018 that added 18 banking centers serving the Twin Cities and its western communities in Minnesota. 

Divestitures 

Since the beginning of 2011 through the end of 2021, we consolidated or sold over 230 banking centers as part of our continued banking center rationalization. Over the same period, we more than tripled our assets and increased our average total deposits per banking center from $34 million to approximately $115 million, while only increasing our number of banking centers by one from 161 to 162. 

Another component of The ONB Way is the optimization of our banking center network. As part of The ONB Way, we consolidated 31 banking centers scattered throughout the footprint in April 2020, reflecting an ongoing shift among our clients toward digital banking solutions. Many of the facilities consolidated were in smaller markets, several of which were added in recent years through acquisition and partnership activity. 

COMPETITION 

The banking industry and related financial service providers operate in a highly competitive market. Old National competes with financial service providers such as other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, Financial Technology, or &#8220;FinTech,&#8221; companies, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds, and other financial intermediaries. 

Some of our nonfinancial institution competitors may have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality clients has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, mergers and acquisitions, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers, bank failures, and the conversion of certain former investment banks to bank holding companies. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Old National is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders or creditors. 

Significant elements of certain laws and regulations applicable to Old National and its subsidiaries are described below. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Also, such statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies and subject to change. A change in statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Old National and its subsidiaries, for which Old National cannot predict, could have a material effect on the business of the Company. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation. Old National is registered as a bank holding company. It is subject to the supervision of, and regulation by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;). Generally, the BHC Act governs the acquisition and control of banks and non-banking companies by bank holding companies and requires bank holding companies to register with the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act also regulates the business activities of non-bank subsidiaries of bank holding companies as well as the business activities and other relationships of the bank holding company and its non-bank affiliates with the bank holding company&#8217;s bank subsidiaries. The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to file an annual report of its operations and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require. A bank holding company and its subsidiaries are subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. 

The BHC Act, the Bank Merger Act, and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for the direct or indirect acquisition by a bank holding company of more than 5.0% of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its holding company. Under the BHC Act or the Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve or other appropriate bank regulatory authority is required for a bank holding company to acquire control of another bank or for a member bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, the applicant&#8217;s managerial and financial resources, the applicant&#8217;s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (the &#8220;CRA&#8221;), fair 

housing laws and other laws, including consumer compliance laws, and the effectiveness of the banks in combating money laundering activities. 

In addition, the BHC Act prohibits (with certain exceptions) a bank holding company that has not elected to become a financial holding company from acquiring direct or indirect control or ownership of more than 5.0% of the voting shares of any &#8220;non-banking&#8221; company unless the non-banking activities are found by the Federal Reserve to be &#8220;so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto.&#8221; Under current regulations of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company and its non-bank subsidiaries are permitted to engage in such banking-related business ventures as consumer finance, equipment leasing, data processing, mortgage banking, financial and investment advice, securities brokerage services, and other activities. 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended (the &#8220;GLB Act&#8221;), allows certain bank holding companies to elect to be treated as a financial holding company (an &#8220;FHC&#8221;) that may offer clients a more comprehensive array of financial products and services. At this time, the Company has not elected to be a FHC. 

Transactions with Affiliates. Any transactions between Old National Bank and any of its affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s regulations limit the types and amounts of covered transactions permissible for Old National and Old National Bank to engage in and require those transactions to be on terms at least as favorable to Old National Bank as would be a transaction conducted between unaffiliated third-parties. Covered transactions are defined by statute to include: 

&#8226; A loan or extension of credit by a commercial bank to an affiliate, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate on arm&#8217;s length terms. 

&#8226; The purchase of assets by a commercial bank from an affiliate, unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve. 

&#8226; Certain derivative transactions involving a commercial bank that create a credit exposure to an affiliate. 

&#8226; The acceptance by a commercial bank of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for any loan. 

&#8226; The issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit by a commercial bank on behalf of or for the benefit of an affiliate. 

In general, these regulations require that any extension of credit by Old National Bank (or its subsidiaries) to or for the benefit of an affiliate must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited to certain thresholds on an individual credit and aggregate basis. 

Old National Bank is also limited as to how much and on what terms it may lend to its insiders and the insiders of its affiliates, including its affiliates and its affiliates&#8217; executive officers and directors. 

Source of Strength. Federal Reserve policy and federal law require bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, a bank holding company is expected to commit financial resources to support its bank subsidiary even at times when the holding company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources or when the holding company may not be inclined to provide it. Any loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The CRA requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low-income and moderate-income individuals and small businesses in those communities. Federal and state regulators conduct CRA examinations on a regular basis to assess the performance of financial institutions and assign one of four ratings to the institution&#8217;s record of meeting the credit needs of its community. Bank regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed merger or acquisition. Old National Bank received a rating of &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its latest CRA examination. In December 2019, the OCC and the FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking intended to (i) clarify which activities qualify for CRA credit; (ii) update where activities count for CRA credit; (iii) create a more transparent and objective method for measuring CRA performance; and (iv) provide for more transparent, consistent, and timely CRA-related data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting. However, the Federal Reserve has not joined the proposed rulemaking. In May 2020, the OCC issued its final CRA rule, which was later rescinded in December 2021. The FDIC has not finalized any revisions to its CRA rule. In September 2020, the Federal Reserve issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that seeks public comment on ways to 

modernize the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CRA regulations. The effects on the Company and Old National Bank of any potential change to the CRA rules will depend on the final form of any federal rulemaking and cannot be predicted at this time. Management will continue to evaluate any changes to the CRA&#8217;s regulations and their impact to the Company&#8217;s and Old National Bank&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 

Financial Privacy . Under the GLB Act, a financial institution may not disclose non-public personal information about a consumer to unaffiliated third-parties unless the institution satisfies various disclosure requirements and the consumer has not elected to opt out of the information sharing. The financial institution must provide its clients with a notice of its privacy policies and practices. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other financial regulatory agencies issued regulations implementing notice requirements and restrictions on a financial institution&#8217;s ability to disclose non-public personal information about consumers to unaffiliated third-parties. 

In addition, privacy and data protection are areas of increasing state legislative focus, and several states have recently enacted consumer privacy laws that impose significant compliance obligations with respect to personal information. Similar laws may in the future be adopted by states where the Company and Old National Bank do business. Furthermore, privacy and data protection areas are expected to receive additional attention at the Federal level. The potential effects of state or Federal privacy and data protection laws on the Company&#8217;s business cannot be determined at this time, and will depend both on whether such laws are adopted by states in which the Company does business and/or at the Federal level and the requirements imposed by any such laws. 

Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act. The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;) and USA PATRIOT Act require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent them from being used for, and to detect and deter, money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illegal activities. If such activities are detected or suspected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of clients seeking to open new accounts and monitoring these accounts on an ongoing basis to ensure that such accounts are not used for illegal purposes. Failure to comply with these requirements could have serious financial, legal, and reputational consequences, including the imposition of civil money penalties, cease and desist orders, or causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions. 

In January 2021, the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (&#8220;AMLA&#8221;), which amends the BSA, was enacted. Among other things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance for financial institutions; requires the Treasury to promulgate priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy; requires the development of standards by the Treasury for testing technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority, including a significant expansion in the available sanctions for certain BSA violations; and expands BSA whistleblower incentives and protections. Many of the statutory provisions in the AMLA will require additional rulemaking, reports and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend on, among other things, rulemaking and implementation guidance. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation. The U.S. imposes economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, and others. These sanctions are administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). These sanctions include: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country, and (ii) blocking assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious financial, legal, and reputational consequences for the institution, including the imposition of civil money penalties, or causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and related regulations impose significant obligations on the Company, compliance with which has resulted, and will continue to result, in significant operating costs. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards &#8211; The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (&#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;), directs the Federal Reserve to monitor emerging risks to financial stability and enact enhanced supervision and prudential standards. As a bank holding company with less than $100 billion of total consolidated assets, the Dodd Frank Act&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards generally are not 

applicable to the Company. Prior to the passage of EGRRCPA, Federal Reserve rules required publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more of total consolidated assets to establish risk committees. The Company established a risk committee in accordance with this requirement. In October 2019, the Federal Reserve adopted a rule that tailors the application of the enhanced prudential standards to BHCs pursuant to the EGRRCPA amendments, including by raising the asset threshold for application of many of these standards. Pursuant to the final rules, publicly traded bank holding companies with between $10 billion and $50 billion of total consolidated assets, including the Company, are no longer required to maintain a risk committee. The Company has determined that it will nevertheless retain its Board and management risk committees. 

Consumer Financial Protection &#8211; The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;) as an independent unit within the Federal Reserve. The powers of the CFPB currently include primary enforcement and exclusive supervision authority for federal consumer financial laws over insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, such as Old National Bank, and their affiliates. This includes the right to obtain information about an institution&#8217;s activities and compliance systems and procedures and to detect and assess risks to consumers and markets. 

The CFPB engages in several activities, including (i) investigating consumer complaints about credit cards and mortgages, (ii) launching supervisory programs, (iii) conducting research for and developing mandatory financial product disclosures, and (iv) engaging in consumer financial protection rulemaking. 

Old National Bank is also subject to a number of regulations intended to protect consumers in various areas, such as equal credit opportunity, fair lending, customer privacy, identity theft, and fair credit reporting. For example, Old National Bank is subject to the Federal Truth in Savings Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Electronic banking activities are subject to federal law, including the Electronic Funds Transfer Act. Consumer loans made by Old National Bank are subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Truth in Lending Act. Other consumer financial laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and applicable state laws. 

In addition, state authorities are responsible for monitoring the Company&#8217;s compliance with all state consumer laws. Failure to comply with these federal and state requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the Company and Old National Bank, including causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions, civil money penalties, and injunctive and remedial relief. 

Interchange Fees &#8211; The Company is subject to interchange fee limitations that establish a maximum permissible interchange fee equal to no more than 21 cents plus five basis points of the transaction value for many types of debit interchange transactions. Interchange fees, or &#8220;swipe&#8221; fees, are charges that merchants pay to card-issuing banks, such as Old National Bank, for processing electronic payment transactions. Additional Federal Reserve rules allow a debit card issuer to recover one cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements. The Company is in compliance with these fraud-related requirements. The Federal Reserve also has rules governing routing and exclusivity that require issuers to offer two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions on each debit or prepaid product. 

Volcker Rule - The so-called &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; issued under the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, including Old National Bank, to sponsor or invest in private funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading, except as permitted by the Volcker Rule. The Company generally does not engage in the businesses prohibited by the Volcker Rule; therefore, the Volcker Rule does not have a material effect on the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. 

Capital Requirements . The Company and Old National Bank are each required to comply with certain risk-based capital and leverage requirements under capital rules (the &#8220;Basel III Capital Rules&#8221;) adopted by the Federal Reserve. These rules implement the Basel III framework set forth by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;) as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company and Old National Bank are required to maintain the following: 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of Common equity Tier 1 capital (&#8220;CET1&#8221;) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; that is composed entirely of CET1 capital (resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%). 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%). 

&#8226; A minimum ratio of total capital (Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%). 

&#8226; A minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. 

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum, but below the conservation buffer, will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income&#8221; (that is, the greater of (i) net income for the preceding four quarters, net of distributions and associated tax effects not reflected in net income and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters). 

The Basel III Capital Rules also provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1 that include, for example, goodwill, other intangible assets, and deferred tax assets that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards net of any related valuation allowance. Mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks and investments in non-consolidated financial institutions must also be deducted from CET1 to the extent that they exceed certain thresholds. The Company and Old National Bank, as non-advanced approaches banking organizations as classified under the Basel III Capital Rules, made a one-time permanent election to exclude the effects of certain AOCI items included in shareholders&#8217; equity under GAAP in determining regulatory capital ratios. 

In November 2017, the federal bank regulators issued a final rule that extended certain transition provisions related to the capital treatment for certain deferred tax assets, mortgage servicing rights, investments in non-consolidated financial entities, and minority interests for banking organizations that are not subject to the advanced approaches framework under the Basel III Capital Rules, such as the Company and Old National Bank, until January 1, 2020 when final rules to simplify the regulatory treatment of those items took effect (the &#8220;Capital Simplification Rules&#8221;). 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as &#8220;Basel IV&#8221;). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee&#8217;s standardized approach for credit risk (including the recalibration of risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain &#8220;unconditionally cancellable commitments,&#8221; such as unused credit card lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2023, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2028. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches banking organizations, and not to the Company or Old National Bank. The impact of Basel IV on the Company and Old National Bank will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the federal bank regulators. 

Prompt Corrective Action . The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;) requires the federal banking agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; for depository institutions that do not meet the minimum capital requirements. The FDIA includes the following five capital tiers: &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A depository institution&#8217;s capital tier will depend on how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. The relevant capital measures are the total risk-based capital ratio, the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the CET1 capital ratio, and the leverage ratio. 

A bank will be: 

&#8226; &#8220;Well-capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

&#8226; &#8220;Adequately capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; 

&#8226; &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a CET1 capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%. 

&#8226; &#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, a CET1 capital ratio of less than 3.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%. 

&#8226; &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution&#8217;s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating for certain matters. A bank&#8217;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank&#8217;s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. As of December 31, 2021, Old National Bank&#8217;s capital ratios were all in excess of the minimum requirements for &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; status. 

The FDIA prohibits an insured depository institution from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the bank&#8217;s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless it is well-capitalized or is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A depository institution that is adequately capitalized and accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposits in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market areas. 

In addition, the FDIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The agencies may not accept such a plan without determining that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution&#8217;s capital. In addition, the depository institution&#8217;s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with the capital restoration plan and must also provide appropriate assurances of performance for a plan to be acceptable. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company is limited to the lesser of an amount equal to 5.0% of the depository institution&#8217;s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable to the institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; 

&#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; requirements to reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; institutions may be subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Dividends Limitation. Old National Bank is subject to the provisions of the National Bank Act, is supervised, regulated, and examined by the OCC, and is subject to the rules and regulations of the OCC, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC. A substantial portion of Old National&#8217;s revenue is derived from dividends paid to it by Old National Bank. These dividends are subject to various legal and regulatory restrictions as summarized in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Deposit Insurance . Substantially all of the deposits of Old National Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) which is administered by the FDIC. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and to require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. It may also prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the DIF. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a 

finding that the institution engaged or is engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC or written agreement entered into with the FDIC. 

FDIC assessment rates for large institutions that have more than $10 billion of assets, such as Old National Bank, are calculated based on a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large institution will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs, based primarily on the difference between the institution&#8217;s average of total assets and average tangible equity. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. For large institutions, including Old National Bank, after accounting for potential base-rate adjustments, the total assessment rate could range from 1.5 to 40 basis points on an annualized basis. Old National&#8217;s most recent assessment rate was 2.94 basis points. An institution&#8217;s assessment is determined by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base, which is asset based. 

Depositor Preference . The FDIA provides that, in the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States, and the parent bank holding company with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Employee Incentive Compensation . &#160; Under regulatory guidance applicable to all banking organizations, incentive compensation policies must be consistent with safety and soundness principles. Under this guidance, financial institutions must review their compensation programs to ensure that they: (i) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward and that do not encourage imprudent risk, (ii) are compatible with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) are supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the banking organization&#8217;s board of directors. Monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization and its use of incentive compensation. 

During 2016, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC proposed revised rules on incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion of total assets (including the Company and Old National Bank). These proposed rules have not been finalized. 

Cybersecurity. The federal banking agencies have established certain expectations with respect to an institution&#8217;s information security and cybersecurity programs, with an increasing focus on risk management, processes related to information technology and operational resiliency, and the use of third-parties in the provision of financial services. In October 2016, the federal banking agencies jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cybersecurity risk-management and resilience standards that would address five categories of cyber standards which include (i) cyber risk governance, (ii) cyber risk management, (iii) internal dependency management, (iv) external dependency management, and (v) incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. As proposed, these enhanced standards would apply only to depository institutions and depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more; however, it is possible that if these enhanced standards are implemented, even if the $50 billion threshold is increased, the Federal Reserve will consider them in connection with the examination and supervision of banks below the $50 billion threshold. The federal banking agencies have not yet taken further action on these proposed standards. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity in those areas to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which the Company operates. 

In February 2018, the SEC published interpretive guidance to assist public companies in preparing disclosures about cybersecurity risks and incidents. These SEC guidelines, and any other regulatory guidance, are in addition to notification and disclosure requirements under state and federal banking law and regulations. 

In November 2021, the United States federal bank regulatory agencies adopted a rule regarding notification requirements for banking organizations related to significant computer security incidents. Under the final rule, a bank holding company and a state member bank are required to notify the Federal Reserve within 36 hours of incidents that have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations of the banking organization, or impact the stability of the financial sector. The rule is effective April 1, 2022, with compliance required by May 1, 2022. 

Safety and Soundness Regulations. In accordance with the FDIA, the federal banking agencies adopted safety and soundness guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, cybersecurity, liquidity, data protection, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, compensation, fees, and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify, monitor, and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder. In addition, regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies authorize the agencies to require that an institution that has been given notice that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, the institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing corrective actions and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; provisions of FDIA. If the institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties and cease and desist orders. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System. Old National Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. As a member of the FHLBI, Old National Bank is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock of the FHLBI in an amount at least equal to the sum of the membership stock purchase requirement, determined on an annual basis at the end of each calendar year, and the activity-based stock purchase requirement, determined on a daily basis. For Old National Bank, the membership stock purchase requirement is 1.0% of the Mortgage-Related Assets, as defined by the FHLBI, which consists principally of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, held by Old National Bank. The activity-based stock purchase requirement is equal to the sum of: (1) a specified percentage ranging from 2.0% to 5.0%, which for Old National Bank is 5.0%, of outstanding borrowings from the FHLBI; (2) a specified percentage ranging from 0.0% to 5.0%, which for Old National Bank is 3.0%, of the outstanding principal balance of Acquired Member Assets, as defined by the FHLBI, and delivery commitments for Acquired Member Assets; (3) a specified dollar amount related to certain off-balance sheet items, which for Old National Bank is inapplicable; and (4) a specified percentage ranging from 0.0% to 5.0% of the carrying value on the FHLBI&#8217;s balance sheet of derivative contracts between the FHLBI and Old National Bank, which for Old National Bank is inapplicable. The FHLBI can adjust the specified percentages and dollar amount from time to time within the ranges established by the FHLBI capital plan. As of December 31, 2021, Old National Bank was in compliance with the minimum stock ownership requirement. 

Future Legislation and Regulation. In addition to the specific legislation and regulations described above, various laws and regulations are being considered by federal and state governments and regulatory agencies that may change banking statutes and the Company&#8217;s and Old National Bank&#8217;s operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways and may increase reporting requirements and compliance costs. These changes could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, increase the Company&#8217;s expenses, decrease the Company&#8217;s revenue, limit or expand permissible activities or change the activities in which the Company chooses to engage, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions in ways that could adversely affect the Company and Old National Bank. 

Regulatory Approval for Acquisitions. In July 2021, an executive order was issued on competition, which included provisions relating to bank mergers. These provisions &#8220;encourage&#8221; the Department of Justice and the federal banking regulators to update guidelines on banking mergers and to provide more scrutiny of bank mergers. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

All reports filed electronically by Old National with the SEC, including the annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements, other information and amendments to those reports filed or furnished (as applicable), are accessible at no cost on Old National&#8217;s web site at www.oldnational.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically submitting such materials to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

