 81 

Legal Risk 

Legal risk generally results from unidentified or unmitigated risks that could result in lawsuits or adverse judgments that negatively affect the operations or condition of the Company. Business practices must be executed, as well as products and services delivered, in a manner that is compliant with laws, regulatory requirements, and agreements to which we are a party. Corporate governance practices must be compliant with applicable legal requirements and aligned with market practices. The Board of Directors expects that we will perform business in a manner compliant with applicable laws and/or regulations and expects issues to be identified, analyzed, and remediated in a timely and complete manner. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

Our most significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Certain of these accounting policies require management to use significant judgment and estimates, which can have a material impact on the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities. We consider these policies to be our critical accounting estimates. The judgment and assumptions made are based upon historical experience, future forecasts, or other factors that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Because of the nature of the judgment and assumptions, actual results could differ from estimates, which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Business Combinations and Goodwill 

&#8226; Description. For acquisitions, we are required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets such as core deposit and customer trust relationship intangibles, and the liabilities assumed at their fair value. The difference between consideration and the net fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Management uses significant estimates and assumptions to value such items, including projected cash flows, repayment rates, default rates and losses assuming default, discount rates, and realizable collateral values. The allowance for credit losses for PCD loans is recognized within acquisition accounting. The allowance for credit losses for non-PCD assets is recognized as provision for credit losses in the same reporting period as the acquisition. Fair value adjustments are amortized or accreted into the income statement over the estimated life of the acquired assets or assumed liabilities. The purchase date valuations and any subsequent adjustments determine the amount of goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition. The use of different assumptions could produce significantly different valuation results, which could have material positive or negative effects on our results of operations. The carrying value of goodwill recorded must be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, as well as on an interim basis if events or changes indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss must be recognized for any excess of carrying value over fair value of the goodwill. 

&#8226; Judgments and Uncertainties. The determination of fair values is based on valuations using management&#8217;s assumptions of future growth rates, future attrition, discount rates, multiples of earnings or other relevant factors. In addition, we engage third party specialists to assist in the development of fair values. Preliminary estimates of fair values may be adjusted for a period of time subsequent to the acquisition date if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. Adjustments recorded during this period are recognized in the current reporting period. Management uses various valuation methodologies to estimate the fair value of these assets and liabilities, and often involves a significant degree of judgment, particularly when liquid markets do not exist for the particular item being valued. Examples of such items include loans, deposits, identifiable intangible assets, and certain other assets and liabilities. 

&#8226; Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions. Changes in these factors, as well as downturns in economic or business conditions, could have a significant adverse impact on the carrying value of assets, including goodwill and liabilities, which could result in impairment losses affecting our financial statements as a whole and our banking subsidiary in which the goodwill resides. 

&#8226; Pandemic. A prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, or any other epidemic that harms the global economy, U.S. economy, or the economies in which we operate could adversely affect our operations. Goodwill is especially susceptible to risk of impairment during prolonged periods of economic downturn. 

For additional information regarding critical accounting estimates, see the section titled &#8220;Critical Accounting Estimates&#8221; included in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There have been no material changes in the Company&#8217;s application of critical accounting estimates related to allowance for credit losses for loans, derivative financial instruments, or income taxes since December 31, 2021. 

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

See Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Market Risk and Liquidity Risk. 

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Old National&#8217;s principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that Old National&#8217;s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), based on their evaluation of these controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, are effective at the reasonable assurance level as discussed below to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Old National in the reports it files under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and that such information is accumulated and communicated to Old National&#8217;s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls. Management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that Old National&#8217;s disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. 

The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be only reasonable assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, the system of controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in Old National&#8217;s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Old National&#8217;s internal control over financial reporting. 

PART II 

OTHER INFORMATION 

