 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial institutions in the U.S. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, including residential mortgage, corporate and institutional banking and asset management, providing many of our products and services nationally. Our retail branch network is located coast-to-coast. We also have strategic international offices in four countries outside the U.S. At December 31, 2023, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders&#8217; equity were $561.6 billion, $421.4 billion and $51.1 billion, respectively. 

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through organic growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries. We offer a broad range of deposit, credit and fee-based products and services to serve our customers. See Note 22 Segment Reporting for additional details regarding our products and services. 

Acquisition of BBVA USA Bancshares, Inc. 

On June 1, 2021, PNC acquired BBVA USA Bancshares, Inc. (BBVA), a U.S. financial holding company conducting its business 

operations primarily through its U.S. banking subsidiary, BBVA USA. PNC paid $11.5 billion in cash as consideration for the 

acquisition. 

On October 8, 2021, BBVA USA merged into PNC Bank. On October 12, 2021, PNC converted approximately 2.6 million 

customers, 9,000 employees and over 600 branches across seven states. Our results of operations and balance sheets for all periods presented in this Report reflect the benefit of BBVA&#8217;s acquired businesses for the period since the acquisition closed on June 1, 2021. 

Presentation of Noninterest Income 

Effective for the first quarter of 2022, PNC updated the presentation of its noninterest income categorization to be based on product and service type, and accordingly, has changed the basis of presentation of its noninterest income revenue streams to: (i) Asset management and brokerage, (ii) Capital markets related, (iii) Card and cash management, (iv) Lending and deposit services, (v) Residential and commercial mortgage and (vi) Other noninterest income. For a description of each updated noninterest income revenue stream, see Note 1 Accounting Policies. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2022, PNC updated the name of the noninterest income line item &#8220;Capital markets related&#8221; to &#8220;Capital markets and advisory.&#8221; This update did not impact the components of the category. All periods presented herein reflect these changes. 

Signature Bank Portfolio Acquisition 

On October 2, 2023, PNC acquired a portfolio of capital commitments facilities from Signature Bridge Bank, N.A. through an agreement with the FDIC as receiver of the former Signature Bank, New York. The acquired portfolio represented approximately $16.0 billion in total commitments, including approximately $9.0 billion of funded loans, at the time of acquisition. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 1 

Subsidiaries 

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2023 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and 54 active non-bank subsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments and historic rehabilitation investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, a national bank chartered in Wilmington, Delaware. For additional information on certain of our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report. 

Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies 

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference: &#160; 

##TABLE_START 

&#160; &#160; 

Form 10-K page 

Average Consolidated Balance Sheet and Net Interest Analysis 

Analysis of Year-To-Year Changes in Net Interest Income 

Maturities and Weighted-Average Yield of Securities 

110 and 180 

Selected Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity 

Credit Ratios 63 , 66 and 67 

Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses 

Average Amount and Average Rate Paid on Deposits 

Uninsured Deposits and Time Deposits 

##TABLE_END

Supervision and Regulation 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is a BHC registered under the BHC Act and a financial holding company under the GLB Act. PNC primarily conducts its business through its domestic bank subsidiary, PNC Bank, a national banking association chartered and located in Wilmington, Delaware. 

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 19 Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The consequences of noncompliance with these, or other applicable laws or regulations, can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions. See the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory initiatives on the regulatory environment for us and the financial services industry. 

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and examination by many regulatory bodies, including the Federal Reserve and the OCC. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the Board of Directors, the effectiveness of internal controls and internal audit function, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. 

The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. 

The CFPB is responsible for examining us for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB&#8217;s examinations (which are not publicly available) also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements. 

2 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the CFTC due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our businesses with operations outside the U.S. also are subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business. 

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, expand our operations geographically or reconfigure existing operations. 

Among the areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus are compliance with the BSA/AML laws, capital and liquidity management (including contingency, recovery, and resolution planning), the structure and effectiveness of enterprise risk management frameworks (including for climate-related risks), the protection of confidential customer information, cybersecurity, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, use of unapproved messaging applications by employees in regulated entities, and compliance with fair lending and other consumer protection laws and regulations, including those governing retail sales practices, fee disclosures, unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, collection practices, and protections for military service members. 

The profitability of our businesses also is affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial sectors in general, including laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation, electronic commerce, data security and privacy. 

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors), the financial markets and financial system in general. 

Banking Regulation and Supervision 

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning . PNC and PNC Bank are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. The foundation of the agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rules is the international regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee, the international body responsible for developing global regulatory standards for banking organizations for consideration and adoption by national jurisdictions. The regulatory capital rules establish minimum requirements for the ratio of a banking organization&#8217;s regulatory capital to its risk-weighted assets, referred to as risk-based capital requirements, as well as for the ratio of its regulatory capital to measures of assets and other exposures, referred to as leverage capital requirements. The agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rules have undergone significant change since 2013, when the agencies adopted final rules to implement the Basel Committee&#8217;s international regulatory capital framework, known as &#8220;Basel III&#8221;, as well as certain provisions of Dodd-Frank. On July 27, 2023, and as described in more detail below, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC proposed for public comment an interagency rule to implement the final components of the Basel III framework that would significantly revise the capital requirements for large banking organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank. 

The federal banking agencies currently tailor the application of their capital, liquidity and enhanced prudential requirements for banking organizations to the asset size and risk profile (as measured by certain regulatory metrics) of the banking organization. The agencies&#8217; capital and liquidity rules classify all BHCs with $100 billion or more in total assets into one of four categories (Category I, Category II, Category III and Category IV), with the most stringent capital and liquidity requirements applying to Category I firms and the least restrictive requirements applying to Category IV firms. The classification of any bank subsidiary of a BHC generally follows that of its parent BHC. PNC and PNC Bank currently are Category III firms because PNC (i) has more than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in consolidated total assets, (ii) is not designated as a GSIB, and (iii) has less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity. Under current rules, any of these no longer being the case, PNC and PNC Bank would become a Category I or II institution, and subject to more stringent capital and liquidity standards. As of December 31, 2023, PNC had cross-jurisdictional activities for these purposes of $21.3 billion. Some of the benefits of tailored application of capital, liquidity, and enhanced prudential requirements under current rules may be reversed if the agencies adopt, as proposed, certain rules issued in 2023 for comment as described further below. 

The regulatory capital rules generally divide regulatory capital into three components: CET1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together with CET1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, and qualifying minority interests less required deductions. As permitted, PNC and PNC Bank have elected to exclude AOCI related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less required deductions. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt and, subject to certain quantitative limits, ACL, less any required deductions from Tier 2 capital. The regulatory capital rules limit the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries may be included in regulatory capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 3 

Under the current regulatory capital rules, PNC and PNC Bank must deduct investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, MSRs and deferred tax assets (in each case, net of associated deferred tax liabilities) from CET1 capital to the extent such categories individually exceed 25% of the institution&#8217;s adjusted CET1 capital. As of December 31, 2023, PNC and PNC Bank&#8217;s investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, MSRs and deferred tax assets did not exceed this threshold. 

The agencies&#8217; capital rules permit banking organizations that were subject to CECL during 2020 to delay CECL&#8217;s estimated impact on CET1 capital. PNC elected to delay the estimated impact of CECL on CET1 capital through December 31, 2021, followed by a three-year transition period. CECL&#8217;s estimated impact on CET1 capital is defined as the change in retained earnings at adoption plus or minus 25% of the change in CECL ACL at the balance sheet date, excluding the allowance for PCD loans, compared to CECL ACL at adoption. Effective for the first quarter of 2022, PNC is now in the three-year transition period, and the full impact of the CECL standard is being phased-in to regulatory capital through December 31, 2024. See Note 1 Accounting Policies for more detail on CECL and the ACL. 

PNC and PNC Bank are required to use the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of calculating the risk-based capital ratios. The standardized approach for risk-weighted assets takes into account credit and market risk. To calculate risk-weighted assets under the standardized approach for credit risk, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are generally multiplied by risk weights set forth in the rules, with the risk weights increasing as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset or exposure increases. For certain types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure. High volatility commercial real estate, past due, and equity exposures, as well as MSRs and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, are generally subject to higher risk weights than other types of exposures. Under the market risk capital rule, risk-weighted asset amounts for covered trading positions are determined based on the calculation of VaR (including stressed VaR), specific risk, incremental risk and comprehensive risk amounts, as specified in the capital rules. 

We refer to the capital ratios calculated using the definition of capital under the agencies&#8217; Basel III capital rules and, for the risk-based ratios, standardized risk-weighted assets, as our Basel III regulatory capital ratios. 

The risk-based capital rules establish certain minimum standards for the capital ratios of banking organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank. Banking organizations must maintain a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a Total capital ratio of 8.0%, in each case in relation to risk-weighted assets, to be considered &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; BHCs subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process, such as PNC, are subject to a CET1 SCB. The SCB is calculated based on the difference between a firm&#8217;s starting and minimum CET1 ratio (as projected by the Federal Reserve) in the supervisory severely adverse scenario during the CCAR process, plus four quarters of the organization&#8217;s planned common stock dividends (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), subject to a floor of 2.5%. Based on PNC&#8217;s performance under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress tests as part of CCAR 2023, PNC&#8217;s SCB for the four-quarter period beginning October 1, 2023 is the regulatory minimum of 2.5%. While PNC Bank is not subject to a SCB, PNC Bank is required to maintain a capital conservation buffer in the form of CET1 equal to a fixed 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. 

PNC and PNC Bank must maintain risk-based capital above the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements plus its SCB (in the case of PNC) or capital conservation buffer (in the case of PNC Bank) in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including paying dividends and executing repurchases or redemptions of any Tier 1 capital instrument, such as common and qualifying preferred stock, and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. As a result, to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments, PNC and PNC Bank must maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 10.5%. In addition, while a firm&#8217;s SCB is typically determined as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual CCAR process, the Federal Reserve has the right to conduct supervisory stress tests, require a firm to submit a revised capital plan and calculate a firm&#8217;s SCB more frequently. BHCs subject to a SCB, such as PNC, generally may increase their capital distributions without seeking prior Federal Reserve approval, provided the BHC otherwise complies with its SCB and any other applicable capital or capital distribution requirements. 

For Category III banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank), the Federal Reserve and OCC can supplement these higher SCB or capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer, which must be held in the form of CET1 capital, is currently set at zero in the U.S. A Federal Reserve policy statement establishes the framework and factors the Federal Reserve would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the Federal Reserve establishes an earlier effective date. 

The regulatory capital rules also require that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital as compared to average consolidated assets, referred to as the leverage ratio, and require Category III banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital as compared to total leverage exposure, referred to as the supplementary leverage ratio. Total leverage exposure takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and 

4 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

potential future exposure under derivative contracts. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%, and Category III banking organizations must maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. As of December 31, 2023, the leverage and supplementary leverage ratios of PNC and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level. 

PNC and PNC Bank are not currently subject to the additional CET1 capital surcharge, minimum long-term debt requirement, minimum total loss-absorbing capacity or enhanced supplementary leverage ratio requirements that apply to U.S. GSIBs. However, it is possible that the agencies may apply one or more of these requirements in the future to additional BHCs or insured depository institutions like PNC and PNC Bank. In August 2023, the federal banking agencies proposed rules that would require Category II, III, and IV bank holding companies and banks to issue and maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt that satisfy certain requirements. Additionally, Category II, III, and IV bank holding companies would be subject to &#8220;clean holding company&#8221; requirements, which would prohibit such companies from entering into certain financial arrangements and cap certain liabilities. PNC, as a Category III holding company, and PNC Bank would be subject to the rules and would have a three-year phase-in period after any final rule to achieve compliance with the long-term debt requirements. If the long-term debt rules were finalized in their current form, we would expect to achieve compliance through normal course funding. 

Failure to meet applicable capital requirements could subject a banking organization to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal banking agencies, including limitations on capital distributions, the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital and, in severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; The thresholds at which an insured depository institution is considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; are based on (i) the institution&#8217;s CET1, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios; (ii) the institution&#8217;s leverage ratio; and (iii) for the definitions of &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221;, the institution&#8217;s supplementary leverage ratio (if applicable). Generally, the smaller an institution&#8217;s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the greater the scope and severity of the agencies&#8217; powers. Business activities may also be affected by an institution&#8217;s capital classification. For example, PNC and PNC Bank must remain &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; for PNC to continue to take advantage of financial holding company status as described below. 

At December 31, 2023, PNC and PNC Bank exceeded the required ratios for classification as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, including the levels of capital required to be considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; see the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of this Report and Note 19 Regulatory Matters. 

The federal banking agencies issued a proposed rule in July 2023 to implement the final components of the Basel III framework. The rule generally would align the regulatory capital elements and required deductions for Category III banking organizations, such as PNC and PNC Bank, with those currently applicable to Category I and II banking organizations and apply a new expanded risk-based approach for calculating risk-weighted assets (the &#8220;expanded risk-based approach&#8221;). Among other impacts, PNC and PNC Bank would be required to recognize most elements of AOCI in regulatory capital and deduct from CET1 capital, among other items, MSRs, deferred tax assets, and investments in unconsolidated financial institutions that individually exceed 10% of CET1 capital or in the aggregate with other threshold items that exceed 15% of CET1 capital. The new expanded risk-based approach to calculating risk-weighted assets would apply more granular and standardized risk-weighting methodologies for credit, operational, market, equity and credit valuation adjustment risks. PNC and PNC Bank would be required to calculate their risk-based capital ratios under the existing standardized approach and the expanded risk-based approach and would be subject to the lower of the two resulting ratios for their risk-based capital minimum and buffer requirements, including the SCB. The proposal indicates the effective date of the final rule would be July 1, 2025, with certain provisions having a three-year phase-in period, including the recognition of AOCI elements in regulatory capital and the increase in risk-weighted assets due to the expanded risk-based approach. Based on our December 31, 2023 balance sheet, PNC and PNC Bank expect to remain above the current minimum capital and buffer requirements if the proposal were finalized in its current form. 

In addition to regulatory capital requirements, we are subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, capital stress testing requirements and CCAR process, as well as the DFAST requirements of the Federal Reserve and the OCC. 

As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital planning process of BHCs, including PNC, that have $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. For us, this capital planning assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve that describes the Company&#8217;s planned capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, engage in common stock repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments during a nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the Federal Reserve under different hypothetical macroeconomic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule provides that a BHC must resubmit a new capital 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 5 

plan prior to the next annual submission date if, among other things, there has been or will be a material change in the BHC&#8217;s risk profile, financial condition or corporate structure since its last capital plan submission. 

In evaluating PNC&#8217;s capital plan, the Federal Reserve also considers a number of qualitative factors. In assessing a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes, the Federal Reserve considers whether the BHC has sound and effective governance to oversee these processes. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s evaluation focuses on whether a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes are supported by a strong risk management framework to identify, measure and assess material risks and that provides a strong foundation to capital planning. The Federal Reserve also considers the comprehensiveness of a BHC&#8217;s control framework and evaluates a BHC&#8217;s policy guidelines for capital planning and assessing capital adequacy. A BHC&#8217;s stress testing scenario design processes and approaches for estimating the impact of stress on its capital position, including stress testing models and non-model qualitative approaches, may be reviewed to ensure that projections reflect the impact of appropriately stressful conditions, as well as risks idiosyncratic to the BHC, on its capital position. Significant deficiencies in a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes may result in supervisory directives that require the firm to address the identified deficiencies and, potentially, a downgrade in the BHC&#8217;s supervisory capital positions and planning rating. 

In connection with the 2024 CCAR exercise, we must file our capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of December 31, 2023, with the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2024. In June 2024, we expect to receive PNC&#8217;s preliminary SCB for the four-quarter period beginning October 1, 2024. The Federal Reserve must provide firms their final SCB for this period by August 31, 2024, which would reflect any changes made to the firm&#8217;s planned common stock dividends to remain in compliance with the firm&#8217;s SCB. 

As a Category III institution, PNC must conduct a company-run DFAST stress test in even numbered years and release PNC&#8217;s projections of certain revenue, loss and capital results from the exercise under the agencies&#8217; hypothetical supervisory severely adverse macroeconomic scenario and applying the agencies&#8217; DFAST capital action assumptions. 

As part of the DFAST and annual CCAR processes, the Federal Reserve releases certain revenue, loss and capital results for each participating firm from its supervisory stress testing exercises. 

Regulatory Liquidity Standards and Liquidity Risk Management Requirements . The Basel Committee&#8217;s Basel III framework also includes short-term liquidity standards and long-term funding standards, the LCR and NSFR, respectively. 

The U.S. banking agencies&#8217; LCR rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and high-quality liquid assets to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions prescribed in the rules (net cash outflow). A company&#8217;s LCR is the amount of its high-quality liquid assets divided by its net cash outflows, expressed as a percentage, and as calculated under the rules. The regulatory minimum LCR that covered banking organizations are required to maintain is 100%. PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis. If either institution&#8217;s LCR is below the minimum requirement for three consecutive business days, the institution must promptly provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum LCR requirement. 

The NSFR is designed to measure the stability of the maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. A covered BHC&#8217;s NSFR is the ratio of its available stable funding to its required stable funding amount (as calculated under the rules) over a one-year horizon. The regulatory minimum ratio for all covered banking organizations (expressed as a percentage) is 100%. PNC and PNC Bank calculate the NSFR daily. If either institution&#8217;s NSFR falls, or is likely to fall below, the minimum requirement, the institution must provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum NSFR requirement. 

As Category III institutions with less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, PNC and PNC Bank are subject to reduced LCR and NSFR requirements, with each company&#8217;s LCR net cash outflows and NSFR required stable funding (as calculated under the rules) reduced by 15%, thereby reducing the amount of high-quality liquid assets or available stable funding each institution must hold to meet the LCR and NSFR minimum requirements, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, PNC had weighted short-term wholesale funding for these purposes of $33.1 billion. 

The Federal Reserve requires large BHCs, including PNC, to publicly disclose certain quantitative and qualitative measures of their LCR- and NSFR-related liquidity profile. These disclosures include major components used to calculate the LCR and NSFR ( e.g. , high-quality liquid assets, cash outflows and inflows for the LCR, and available stable funding and required stable funding for the NSFR, at the consolidated parent company), and a qualitative discussion of the BHC&#8217;s LCR and NSFR results, including, among other things, key drivers of the results, composition of high-quality liquid assets and available stable funding, and concentration of funding sources. 

6 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

Additionally, as a Category III institution, PNC also must, among other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows under the BHC&#8217;s 30-day liquidity stress test and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

For additional discussion of regulatory liquidity requirements, refer to the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of this Report. 

Source of Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends . The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends and other capital distributions from PNC Bank. PNC Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. PNC Bank also is subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 19 Regulatory Matters. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity is also available in the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of this Report. 

Federal Reserve rules provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Dodd-Frank requires that the Federal Reserve jointly adopt new rules with the OCC and the FDIC to implement this source of strength requirement. These joint rules have not yet been proposed. Consistent with this source of strength policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the CCAR exercise, such as PNC as discussed above, the Federal Reserve has expected capital plans to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios. 

Enhanced Prudential Requirements . Under Federal Reserve rules, PNC and other BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more are subject to various enhanced prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management. For PNC, these rules, among other things, establish liquidity stress testing requirements (discussed above), limitations on PNC&#8217;s aggregate net credit exposures to any single, unaffiliated company (referred to as SCCL), and certain oversight and governance responsibilities for PNC&#8217;s Chief Risk Officer, the Board of Directors, and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s SCCL rules, PNC&#8217;s aggregate net credit exposure (including exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, investments in securities and derivative transactions) to any unaffiliated counterparty may not exceed 25% of PNC&#8217;s Tier 1 capital. 

The Federal Reserve may continue to develop the set of enhanced prudential standards that apply to large BHCs in order to further promote the resiliency of such firms and the U.S. financial system. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act . The GLB Act permits a qualifying BHC, such as PNC, to become a &#8220;financial holding company&#8221; and thereby engage in, or affiliate with companies engaging in, a broader range of financial activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies, insurance agents and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be &#8220;financial in nature or incidental thereto&#8221; or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be &#8220;complementary&#8221; to financial activities. We became a financial holding company in 2000. A BHC qualifies to become a financial holding company if the BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions are &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; and its subsidiary depository institutions have a rating under the CRA of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; or better. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities. As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities, and we generally are permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. 

In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through a &#8220;financial subsidiary.&#8221; PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve (other than insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities and merchant banking). In order to establish a financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; and the national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must have a CRA rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; or better. 

If a financial holding company or a national bank with a financial subsidiary fails to continue to meet the applicable &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well managed&#8221; criteria, the financial holding company or national bank must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve or the OCC, respectively, that, among other things, identifies how the capital or management deficiencies will be corrected. Until such 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 7 

deficiencies are corrected, the relevant agency may impose limits or conditions on the activities of the company or bank, and the company or bank may not engage in, or acquire a company engaged in, the types of expanded activities only permissible for a financial holding company or financial subsidiary without prior approval of the relevant agency. 

In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new activity, if any of its insured depository institutions receives a CRA rating of less than &#8220;Satisfactory.&#8221; A national bank&#8217;s financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a CRA rating of less than &#8220;Satisfactory.&#8221; The CRA and its implementing regulations require the agencies to assess a bank&#8217;s record of meeting the credit needs of the communities in which they do business, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. At December 31, 2023, PNC Bank had a rating of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; with respect to CRA. On October 24, 2023, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule to amend the regulations implementing the CRA. The rule significantly expands the number of areas in which a bank is evaluated, materially changes the tests used to evaluate the bank in those areas and expands the data a bank must collect and report. The final rule takes effect April 1, 2024, but the majority of its operative provisions are effective January 1, 2026, with the data reporting requirements effective January 1, 2027. We expect the rule will increase PNC Bank&#8217;s obligations and compliance costs necessary to achieve a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; or &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; rating under the CRA. 

Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule and its implementing regulations prohibit banking entities from engaging in short-term trading as principal and having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds, private equity funds, and certain other private funds (together, &#8220;covered funds&#8221;), unless an exemption or exception applies. For example, the exemptions under the Volcker Rule allow banking entities to trade as principal for securities underwriting, market making and risk-mitigating hedging purposes, subject to a variety of conditions. PNC and PNC Bank are subject to simplified and tailored compliance program requirements because each entity has trading assets and liabilities of less than $20 billion. 

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision . The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate based on the actions, operations or risk management programs of a BHC, an insured depository institution or their subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have the ability to take enforcement action against PNC and PNC Bank, respectively, to prevent and remedy acts and practices that the agencies determine to be unfair or deceptive. A finding that we have engaged in a deceptive act or practice may have collateral consequences on our ability to rely on certain exemptions in, or take advantage of certain provisions of, the securities laws absent a government waiver of such restrictions. 

Moreover, less than satisfactory examination ratings, lower capital or liquidity ratios than peer group institutions, or regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or BHC to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, make capital distributions or continue to conduct existing activities. Furthermore, the OCC has established certain heightened risk management and governance standards for large banks, including PNC Bank. The guidelines, among other things, establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework, describe the appropriate risk management roles and responsibilities of front line units, independent risk management, internal audit, and the board of directors, and provide that a covered bank should have a comprehensive written statement that articulates its risk appetite and serves as a basis for the framework. If the OCC determines that a covered national bank is not in compliance with these or other enforceable guidelines (including guidelines relating to information security standards), the OCC may require the bank to submit a corrective action plan and may initiate enforcement action against the bank if an acceptable plan is not submitted or the bank fails to comply with an approved plan. 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s implementing regulation, Regulation W, place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates (for example between PNC Bank, on the one hand, and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the other hand). In general, Section 23A and Regulation W limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and any single affiliate to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and all its affiliates to 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, prohibit a bank from purchasing low-quality assets from an affiliate and require certain covered transactions to be secured with prescribed amounts of collateral. Covered transactions include, among other things, extensions of credit, guarantees and purchases of assets. Section 23B generally requires that transactions between a bank and its affiliates be on terms that are at least as favorable to the bank as the terms that would apply in comparable transactions between the bank and a third party. Dodd-Frank amended Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative transaction with the affiliate. The Federal Reserve has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions. 

The Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve regulations also place quantitative limitations and conditions on extensions of credit by a bank to its executive officers, directors, or principal shareholders and their related interests (including any company controlled by such persons). Generally, extensions of credit by a bank to such individuals, companies and related interests must comply with certain individual and aggregate lending limits, as well as procedural and qualitative requirements. As a result of the amount of PNC common stock held by its advised mutual funds and other accounts, the Vanguard Group is considered a principal shareholder of PNC Bank for 

8 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

purposes of these regulations. The federal banking agencies have issued an interagency statement addressing the application of these insider lending restrictions to the other portfolio companies owned or controlled by the advised funds and accounts of a fund complex that could be considered a principal shareholder of a bank, which is effective the earlier of January 1, 2025, and the effective date of a final Federal Reserve rule that addresses the treatment of extensions of credit by a bank to fund complex-controlled portfolio companies that are considered insiders of the bank. The statement explains that the federal banking agencies will continue to exercise discretion to not take enforcement action against either a fund complex that is a principal shareholder of a bank, or a bank for which a fund complex is a principal shareholder, with respect to extensions of credit by the bank to the related interests of such fund complex that otherwise would violate the insider lending restrictions, subject to certain conditions. 

The Federal Reserve is required to establish standards under the statutory provision known as the &#8220;Durbin Amendment&#8221; for assessing whether the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer such as PNC Bank is reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer, subject to certain adjustments. The Federal Reserve implemented these standards through Regulation II, which limits the interchange fee an issuer may charge based on three components. On October 25, 2023, the Federal Reserve proposed revisions to the three components of the interchange fee cap. We expect the proposed rule, if finalized in its current form, would reduce PNC Bank&#8217;s interchange fee revenue. 

The Federal Reserve and the OCC have provided guidance regarding incentive and other elements of compensation provided to executives and other employees at banking organizations they regulate, both as general industry-wide guidance and guidance specific to select larger companies, including PNC. These guidelines are intended to ensure that the incentive compensation practices of covered banking organizations do not encourage excessive risk-taking. Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC and two other regulatory agencies to adopt regulations governing incentive compensation provided by regulated financial services companies to their executives and other employees. These agencies jointly proposed regulations in 2011 and again in 2016 to implement these requirements. Final regulations have not been adopted. 

The trust, investment advisory and other fiduciary activities conducted by PNC Bank also are subject to the OCC&#8217;s regulations governing the fiduciary activities of national banks, as well as applicable state fiduciary laws. The OCC&#8217;s regulations, among other things, set standards for the administration of fiduciary accounts, prohibit or govern potential conflicts of interests and establish recordkeeping requirements for fiduciary accounts. 

The Federal Reserve&#8217;s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or BHC, or to merge or consolidate with any other BHC. In reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC, the factors the Federal Reserve must consider include (i) the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; (ii) the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; (iii) the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the U.S.; (iv) the organizations&#8217; compliance with AML laws and regulations; (v) the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and (vi) the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. On July 9, 2021, President Biden signed an executive order that, among other things, recommended that the U.S. Department of Justice and federal banking agencies update guidelines on banking mergers to provide more robust scrutiny of mergers. The agencies have not yet published updated guidelines. 

The Federal Reserve&#8217;s prior approval also is required, and similar factors are considered, for a BHC to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of a savings association or savings and loan holding company, or to merge or consolidate with a savings and loan holding company. In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Federal Reserve also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. A BHC is generally prohibited from merging or consolidating with, or acquiring, another company or bank if upon consummation the resulting company would control 10% or more of deposits in the U.S. or a state, or if the resulting company&#8217;s liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate liabilities of the U.S. financial sector (including the U.S. liabilities of foreign financial companies). In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve, could order the break-up of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank to acquire another insured bank or savings association by merger or to acquire deposits or substantially all of the assets of such institutions. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve in connection with the acquisition of a bank or BHC. Approval of the OCC and the FDIC is required to merge a non-bank entity into PNC Bank. 

The Federal Reserve also has issued rules governing when a BHC is presumed to &#8220;control&#8221; another company for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby causing the company to be considered a subsidiary for purposes of the BHC Act. The rules establish a set of presumptions identifying when a BHC would be deemed to control another company, with the nature and scope of relationships a BHC may have with a non-controlled company ( e.g. , director or officer representatives, scope of business relationships, etc.) declining as the BHC&#8217;s voting ownership percentage in the company increases. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 9 

FDIC Insurance and Related Matters . PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to deposit premium assessments. PNC Bank, as an insured depository institution with over $50 billion in assets and controlled by a BHC with over $500 billion in assets on a consolidated basis, is a &#8220;highly complex institution&#8221; under the FDIC&#8217;s methodology for determining premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are &#8220;risk based.&#8221; Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary federal banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank&#8217;s holdings of assets or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC, including brokered deposits. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank&#8217;s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. 

Following the bank failures in March 2023, the FDIC invoked the systemic risk exception to certain resolution-related and Deposit Insurance Fund restrictions in order to fully protect all depositors of the affected institutions, including uninsured deposits. By law, any losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund to support uninsured depositors under the systemic risk exception must be recovered by one or more special assessments on insured depository institutions or depository institution holding companies, or both. On November 16, 2023, the FDIC finalized a rule to implement the special assessment. Under the rule, the FDIC will collect from PNC, along with other BHCs and insured depository institutions, special assessments at an annual rate of approximately 13.4 basis points of an institution&#8217;s uninsured deposits reported as of December 31, 2022 (adjusted to exclude the first $5 billion), over eight quarterly assessment periods, beginning after the first quarter of 2024. Because the losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund from the systemic risk exception are estimated, the FDIC will periodically adjust the estimate, which could result in extending the special assessment for additional quarters, imposing a final special assessment on a one-time basis if actual losses exceed the amounts collected, or cease collection early if the FDIC has collected enough to recover actual losses. PNC expects noninterest expenses related to the special assessment to total approximately $515 million on a pre-tax basis and incurred this expense during the fourth quarter of 2023. 

Federal banking laws and regulations also apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In addition, brokered deposits are generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR. The FDIC has issued rules and guidance for determining whether deposits are considered &#8220;brokered.&#8221; 

Resolution and Recovery Planning . BHCs that have $100 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, are required under section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan (including a public summary) that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on a covered BHC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company&#8217;s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. PNC generally must file a resolution plan with the Federal Reserve and FDIC at least once each three-year period, with submissions alternating between a full plan and a plan targeted on certain areas or subjects identified by the agencies. The agencies, however, have reserved the ability to alter the scheduled filing date for a covered company, request an interim update before a covered company&#8217;s next scheduled filing date and require a covered company to submit a full resolution plan in lieu of a scheduled targeted plan. PNC filed a targeted resolution plan in December 2021 and received feedback from the agencies in December 2022 that did not identify any shortcomings or deficiencies in PNC&#8217;s plan. The agencies have extended the due date of PNC&#8217;s next 165(d) resolution plan to March 31, 2025. 

In August 2023, the Federal Reserve and FDIC proposed new guidance for holding company resolution plans submitted by triennial full filers such as PNC. Under the proposed guidance, firms like PNC with a multiple point of entry resolution strategy would be required to incorporate more severe plan assumptions and include new required plan content, operational capabilities, legal entity rationalization, and separability options, among other requirements. Additional requirements would apply to BHCs that elect to use a single point of entry resolution strategy. 

The FDIC also requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, to periodically submit a resolution plan (including a public summary) to the FDIC that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. PNC Bank filed its last resolution plan in December 2022. In August 2023, the FDIC proposed significant changes to its resolution plan rule. Under the proposed rule, banks with $100 billion or more in assets, such as PNC Bank, would be required to submit full resolution plans on a two-year cycle with an interim informational supplement and FDIC supervisory activities and capabilities testing between full submissions. The proposed rule would significantly expand the required content elements and add virtual data room and valuation capabilities as significant components of the resolution planning process. The proposal would divide banks with $100 billion or more in assets into two future groups, with one group of banks required to submit their first full resolution plan under the new rule at least 270 days after the effective date of the final rule, and the other submitting full plans the following year. 

10 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

PNC Bank also is subject to OCC guidelines that establish standards for recovery planning. These guidelines require a covered bank to develop and maintain a recovery plan that is evaluated and updated annually that, among other things, identifies a range of options that could be undertaken by the covered bank to restore its financial strength and viability should identified triggering events occur. The recovery plan guidelines are enforceable in the same manner as the other guidelines the OCC has established. 

CFPB Regulation and Supervision . The CFPB examines PNC and PNC Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services that we offer. The consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by PNC or PNC Bank. The CFPB has engaged in rulemakings that affect, among other things, credit card late fees, overdraft fees, data collection and reporting requirements for small business lenders such as PNC Bank, and personal financial data rights. 

Securities and Derivatives Regulation 

PNC, as a public company, is subject to the Exchange Act&#8217;s reporting requirements and related regulations and must file certain reports with the SEC on an ongoing basis. Our registered broker-dealers and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, respectively, and related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. These rules, for example, require that broker-dealers and investment advisers act in a customer&#8217;s best interest when making investment recommendations to retail customers, which includes managing conflicts of interest, providing required disclosures and exercising a duty of care in making investment recommendations. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. 

The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect our ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns. 

The CFTC regulates swap dealers, other than security-based swap dealers, which are regulated by the SEC. PNC Bank is registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap dealing activities, PNC Bank has not registered (and currently does not intend, and is not required, to register) with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. 

PNC Bank&#8217;s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses are subject to the regulations and requirements imposed on CFTC-registered swap dealers, and the CFTC (and for certain delegated responsibilities, the National Futures Association) has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank&#8217;s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. The CFTC&#8217;s regulations are intended to (i) address systemic risk issues, (ii) bring greater transparency to the derivatives and foreign exchange markets, (iii) provide enhanced disclosures and protections to customers and (iv) promote market integrity. Among other things, these regulations (i) require that, absent certain specified exemptions, most standardized swaps be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house and be traded on a centralized exchange or swap execution facility; (ii) subject PNC Bank to comprehensive recordkeeping, regulatory reporting and real-time public reporting requirements; (iii) subject PNC Bank to various business conduct requirements, including the provision of daily marks to counterparties and disclosing to counterparties (pre-execution) the material risks, material incentives and any conflicts of interest associated with their swap; and (iv) impose special duties on PNC Bank when transacting a swap with a &#8220;special entity&#8221; ( e.g. , governmental agency (federal, state or local) or political subdivision thereof, pension plan or endowment). Because PNC Bank is a prudentially regulated swap dealer, PNC Bank is subject to the OCC&#8217;s capital requirements and margin requirements on certain swaps that are not centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house. 

The regulations and requirements applicable to PNC Bank, as a provisionally registered CFTC swap dealer, impose compliance burdens on PNC Bank and introduce additional legal risks (including as a result of applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). In addition, failure to comply with the &#8220;pay-to-play&#8221; regulations that govern our swap and municipal securities businesses could result in limitations on PNC Bank&#8217;s ability to conduct swap and municipal securities business with state or local governments and their authorities. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 11 

Regulations of Other Agencies 

In addition to regulations issued by the federal banking, securities and derivatives regulators, we also are subject to regulations issued by other federal agencies with respect to certain financial products and services we offer. For example, certain of our fiduciary, brokerage and investment management activities are subject to regulations issued by the Department of Labor under ERISA and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. 

Competition 

We are subject to intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions and non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. 

Our businesses compete to attract and retain deposits and/or to originate loans with: 

&#8226; Other commercial banks, 

&#8226; Savings banks, 

&#8226; Credit unions, 

&#8226; Consumer finance companies, 

&#8226; Leasing companies, 

&#8226; Investment management firms, 

&#8226; Other non-bank lenders, 

&#8226; Financial technology companies, 

&#8226; Treasury management service companies, 

&#8226; Insurance companies, and 

&#8226; Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds. 

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with: 

&#8226; Investment management firms, 

&#8226; Large banks and other financial institutions, 

&#8226; Brokerage firms, 

&#8226; Financial technology companies, 

&#8226; Mutual fund complexes, and 

&#8226; Insurance companies. 

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with: 

&#8226; Commercial banks, 

&#8226; Investment banking firms, 

&#8226; Collateralized loan obligation managers, 

&#8226; Hedge funds, 

&#8226; Mutual fund complexes, 

&#8226; Merchant banks, 

&#8226; Insurance companies, 

&#8226; Private equity firms, and 

&#8226; Other investment vehicles. 

Competition is based on a number of factors including pricing, product structure, the range of products and services offered and the quality of customer service. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for deposits and investments. Competitors may seek to compete with us through traditional channels such as physical locations or through digital channels such as the internet or mobile applications. We include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Human Capital 

We place great importance on having the right people in the right roles, with the right skills, and doing their best work. By focusing on the growth and development of our talented team members, we believe we are best positioned to deliver results for our customers. We believe when our employees deliver for our customers, they deliver for our communities and shareholders as well. 

PNC devotes substantial resources to managing and developing human capital. Our Board of Directors provides oversight of our human capital management strategies, programs and policies developed by our Chief Human Resources Officer and senior management team and is assisted by our Board&#8217;s Nominating and Governance and Human Resources Committees. Our Management 

12 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

Level Executive Committee assists and makes recommendations to our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors on human capital matters. 

The Board of Directors also includes a Corporate Responsibility Committee, which assists the Board in its oversight of management&#8217;s corporate responsibility efforts. Additionally, under the leadership of the Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, PNC operates a corporate responsibility department. The Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer is a member of the Executive Committee, reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors provides formal oversight of PNC&#8217;s corporate responsibility strategy and regularly reviews policies, programs and strategies foundational to the work of the corporate responsibility department. Additionally, our Corporate Diversity Council is co-chaired by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Diversity Officer and includes senior leaders from across the organization. The council is responsible for overseeing strategic corporate initiatives that impact the creation and sustainment of an inclusive corporate culture and a talented, diverse workforce. 

Employees totaled 56,411 at December 31, 2023. This total included 54,813 full-time and 1,598 part-time employees, of which 28,761 full-time and 1,540 part-time employees were employed in our Retail Banking business. 

Part of PNC&#8217;s ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and retain and develop our existing employees. In support of our employees, our human capital strategies include: 

&#8226; Advancing PNC&#8217;s talent-focused culture by developing strong leaders who exemplify our Leadership Standards, a set of standards designed to hold managers accountable for intentional inclusion, living our corporate values, enabling change, achieving results and developing the best talent and providing them with the tools and insights to effectively manage our people. 

&#8226; Focusing on the development and retention of diverse, high performing talent and providing employees with opportunities for professional growth, career mobility and health and financial wellness. 

&#8226; Supporting a strong, ethical culture anchored in our corporate values and doing the right thing for our employees, customers, communities and shareholders. 

&#8226; Continuing to focus on improving workforce diversity and creating an equitable and inclusive work place. 

In managing our employees, we focus on these key factors: 

&#8226; Recruiting, developing and retaining talent . We believe recruiting, developing and retaining talent starts with our leaders, and we measure our managers against our Leadership Standards. Our talent priority is to invest in the development of our internal talent and to provide career advancement opportunities to our employees. We measure how many open requisitions we fill with internal candidates, participation in early career development programs and turnover. At our first-level and above career bands we fill approximately 60% of our open requisitions with internal candidates, which has a direct impact on our ability to retain and develop our people. In addition, we hire approximately 500 interns and 500 full-time development program associates each year from our 11 early career development programs that support each of our lines of business and support areas. 

&#8226; Diversity and inclusion . We focus on attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce that reflects and is equipped to meet the needs of our diverse customer base. Based on employee self-disclosure, we measure representation of LGBTQ+, people with disabilities, veterans and women, and across all races and certain ethnicities. The racial, ethnic and gender composition of our workforce, including within executive, senior leader and other managerial roles, is reflected in our EEO-1 reports, which are posted on our website. As of December 31, 2023, PNC&#8217;s workforce was approximately 40.2% men and 59.0% women, and 51.8% of PNC&#8217;s employees in managerial roles were women. PNC&#8217;s workforce was 11.1% Hispanic or Latino, 62.3% White, 14.8% Black or African American, 7.0% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 0.3% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 2.1% two or more races. In managerial roles, PNC&#8217;s workforce was 9.0% Hispanic or Latino, 70.9% White, 10.1% Black or African American, 6.6% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 0.2% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 1.5% two or more races. 

&#8226; Total rewards . We are committed to providing competitive compensation and benefits programs as part of our overall strategy to retain and recruit talent. We design our compensation and benefits programs to focus on three key aspects of employee well-being: health, money and quality of life. These programs include competitive base salaries and, depending on eligibility, cash incentive and/or stock-based award opportunities, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a 401(k) Plan with employer match, a pension plan, healthcare, life insurance and disability benefits, health savings and dependent care flexible spending accounts, paid time off, paid maternity and parental leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, a robust wellness program with incentives, family building benefits, employee assistance programs and educational assistance, among others. Additionally, we conduct pay equity analyses to determine if employees are being compensated fairly and consistently across roles. 

&#8226; Employee engagement . PNC regularly conducts employee surveys to measure employee engagement because we believe that engaged employees have lower attrition rates and improved customer outcomes. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 13 

Climate Change Strategy 

We recognize that environmental issues, such as climate change, could pose significant financial, legal and reputational risk to PNC. We support the transition to a low-carbon economy by striving to manage our physical footprint in a sustainable manner, incorporating climate-related risk considerations into our ERM framework, integrating responsible investing strategies into our investment and portfolio management practices, and helping clients finance their own sustainability goals. These tenets have been incorporated into our Climate Action Strategy that was formalized at the start of 2022 to enable us to finance the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our approach will be iterative and flexible, highlighting five main areas: employee engagement; long-term collaboration with stakeholders, external partners and industry groups; support for our customers&#8217; transition plans; executing on our own operational sustainability goals; and portfolio alignment over time, emphasizing climate risk identification and management, and financed emissions calculations as initial work sets. 

Our governance of climate issues seeks to ensure an appropriate balancing of environmental considerations with other organizational priorities as we pursue our purpose of helping all of our stakeholders move forward financially. PNC&#8217;s Board oversees climate change-related efforts. Specific internal working groups, engaging with relevant stakeholders within PNC, then carry out these efforts. In addition, we have an established risk management framework that helps identify, assess, monitor and report on environmental risks, including those related to climate change. PNC&#8217;s Climate Risk Committee specifically oversees the integration of climate-related risks into the ERM Framework. 

We assess climate change risks under two distinct categories: transition risks and physical risks. Transition risks are experienced as the world moves toward a low-carbon economy and becomes less reliant upon fossil fuels. They can be reputational in nature or driven by changes in the market, technology and/or policy. Because transition risks are typically experienced to a greater degree in the short- to medium-term, they are dependent upon near-term policy decisions. Physical risks arise from risks associated with natural perils, such as hurricanes, fires, floods and drought. Physical risks may increase due to a changing climate, and we believe such increased risks are realized to a greater degree in the medium- to long-term. Transition and physical risks each requires a different risk management approach, and we explore a range of possible outcomes to gain insight on how to best manage these risks. 

For more information on PNC&#8217;s climate change-related risks, see Item 1A Risk Factors and the Credit Risk Management section of this Report. 

Financial Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, 

quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You can 

obtain copies of these and other filings, including exhibits, electronically at the SEC&#8217;s internet website at www.sec.gov or on our 

corporate internet website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bond holders may also obtain copies of these filings without 

charge via the information request form at www.pnc.com/investorrelations for copies without exhibits, via email to investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statements and schedule exhibits where applicable, or by contacting PNC Investor Relations at 800-843-2206. The interactive date file (XBRL) is only available electronically. 

Corporate Governance at PNC 

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance, including our current PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, is available on our website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future waivers from a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics covering any of our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address. 

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance 

Guidelines or the charters of our Board&#8217;s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Human Resources, or Risk Committees (all of which 

are posted on our website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to our Corporate Secretary at 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. at The Tower at PNC Plaza, 300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2401. Copies 

will be provided without charge. 

Internet Information 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.&#8217;s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the 

internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website at www.investor.pnc.com. We use our account with X, formerly known as Twitter, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating to the public information that 

may be relevant to investors. 

14 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K 

We generally post the following on our corporate website at www.investor.pnc.com shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases and supplemental financial information, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events prior to the call or event. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and non-GAAP financial information, and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we include non-GAAP financial 

information. Such GAAP reconciliations may be in materials for the applicable presentation, in prior presentation materials or in 

our annual, quarterly or current reports. 

When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC instead of using a 

press release or a filing with the SEC for first disclosure of the information. In some circumstances, the information may be relevant to 

investors but directed at customers, in which case it may be accessed directly through the home page. 

We are required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios 

under supervisory and PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios, as well as information concerning our 

capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. We are also 

required to make certain additional regulatory capital-related public disclosures about our capital structure, risk exposures, risk 

assessment processes, risk-weighted assets and overall capital adequacy, including market risk-related disclosures, under the 

regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Similarly, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s rules require quantitative and qualitative disclosures about our LCR and NSFR. Under these regulations, we may satisfy these requirements through postings on our 

website at www.pnc.com/regulatorydisclosures, and we have done so and expect to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC. 

Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings with the SEC includes information relating 

to our corporate governance and communications from our chairman to shareholders. 

Where we have included internet addresses in this Report, such as our internet address and the internet address of the SEC, we have 

included those internet addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, 

information on those websites is not part hereof. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2023 Form 10-K &#160; 15 

