RISK FACTORS

The following discussion presents what management currently 
believes could be the material risks and uncertainties that 
could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including 
those not currently known to Citi or its management, could 
also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations 
and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and 
uncertainties that Citi may face. For additional information 
about risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi, see 
“Executive Summary” and each respective business’s results 
of operations above and “Managing Global Risk” below. The 
following risk factors are categorized to improve the 
readability and usefulness of the risk factor disclosure, and, 
while the headings and risk factors generally align with Citi’s 
risk categorization, in certain instances the risk factors may 
not directly correspond with how Citi categorizes or manages 
its risks.

MARKET-RELATED RISKS

Macroeconomic, Geopolitical and Other Challenges and 
Uncertainties Could Continue to Have a Negative Impact on 
Citi.
Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, 
negative impacts to its businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition as a result of various macroeconomic, 
geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatility. 
These include, among other things, government fiscal and 
monetary actions or expected actions, including continued 
high interest rates, reductions in central bank balance sheets, 
or other restrictive interest rate or other monetary policies; 
potential recessions in the U.S., Europe and other regions or 
countries; and elevated levels of inflation. 

For example, in 2023, the U.S., the U.K., the EU and 

other economies continued to experience elevated levels of 
inflation. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and 
other central banks substantially raised interest rates, reduced 
the size of their balance sheets and took other actions in an 
aggressive effort to curb inflation. These actions may continue 
to adversely impact certain sectors sensitive to interest rates 
and consumer discretionary spending. They may also slow 
economic growth, increase the risk of recession and increase 
the unemployment rate in the U.S. and other countries, all of 
which would likely adversely affect Citi’s consumer and 
institutional clients, businesses and results of operations. In 
addition, inflation may continue to result in higher labor and 
other costs, thus putting further pressure on Citi’s expenses. 
More recently, the FRB has signaled that it expects to reduce 
the benchmark U.S. interest rate in 2024. If the FRB were to 
reduce interest rates prematurely, inflation could resurge.

Interest rates on loans Citi makes are typically based off 

or set at a spread over a benchmark interest rate and would 
likely decline or rise as benchmark rates decline or rise, 
respectively. For example, while a decline in interest rates 
would generally be expected to result in lower overall net 
interest income, it could improve Citi’s funding costs. 
Although higher interest rates would generally be expected to 

48

increase overall net interest income, higher rates could 
adversely affect funding costs, levels of deposits in its 
consumer and institutional businesses and certain business or 
product revenues. In addition, Citi’s net interest income could 
be adversely affected due to a flattening (a lower spread 
between shorter-term versus longer-term interest rates) or 
longer lasting or more severe inversion (shorter-term interest 
rates exceeding longer-term interest rates) of the interest rate 
yield curve, as Citi typically pays interest on deposits based on 
shorter-term interest rates and earns money on loans based on 
longer-term interest rates. For additional information on Citi’s 
interest rate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—
Banking Book Interest Rate Risk” below. Additionally, Citi’s 
balance sheet includes interest-rate sensitive fixed-rate assets 
such as U.S. Treasuries, U.S. agency securities and residential 
mortgages, among others, whose valuation would be adversely 
impacted in a higher-rate environment and/or whose hedging 
costs may increase. 

Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, 
geopolitical challenges, tensions and conflicts, including those 
related to Russia’s war in Ukraine (see discussion below), as 
well as a persistent and/or escalating conflict in the Middle 
East, particularly if the conflict were to widen to involve 
additional combatants, countries or regions; economic and 
other geopolitical challenges related to China, including weak 
economic growth, related policy actions, challenges in the 
Chinese real estate sector, banking and credit markets, and 
tensions or conflicts between China and Taiwan and/or China 
and the U.S.; significant disruptions and volatility in financial 
markets, including foreign currency volatility and devaluations 
and continued strength in the U.S. dollar; protracted or 
widespread trade tensions; natural disasters; new pandemics, 
including new COVID-19 variants; and political polarization, 
election outcomes and the effects of divided government, such 
as with respect to any extended government shutdown in the 
U.S. For example, Citi’s market-making businesses can suffer 
losses resulting from the widening of credit spreads due to 
unanticipated changes in financial markets. Moreover, adverse 
developments or downturns in one or more of the world’s 
larger economies would likely have a significant impact on the 
global economy or the economies of other countries because 
of global financial and economic linkages.

Russia’s war in Ukraine has caused supply shocks in 

energy, food and other commodities markets, worsened 
inflation, increased cybersecurity risks, increased the risk of 
recession in Europe and heightened geopolitical tensions. 
Actions by Russia, and any further measures taken by the U.S. 
or its allies, could continue to have negative impacts on 
regional and global energy and other commodities and 
financial markets and macroeconomic conditions, adversely 
impacting jurisdictions where Citi operates and has customers, 
clients or employees. Citi’s remaining operations in Russia 
subject Citi to various other risks, among which are foreign 
currency volatility, including appreciations or devaluations; 
restrictions arising from retaliatory Russian laws and 
regulations on the conduct of its remaining businesses, 
including, without limitation, its provision to its customers of 
certain securities services; sanctions or asset freezes; and other 
deconsolidation events. In the event of a loss of control of AO 
Citibank, Citi would be required to write off its net investment 

in the entity, recognize a CTA loss through earnings and 
recognize a loss on intercompany liabilities owed by AO 
Citibank to other Citi entities outside of Russia. In the sole 
event of a substantial liquidation, as opposed to a loss of 
control, Citi would be required to recognize the CTA loss 
through earnings and would evaluate its remaining net 
investment as circumstances evolve. For additional 
information about these risks, see the operational processes 
and systems, cybersecurity and emerging markets risk factors 
and “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—
Russia” below.

STRATEGIC RISKS

Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders 
Substantially Depends on Regulatory Capital Requirements, 
Including the Results of the CCAR Process and Dodd-Frank 
Act Regulatory Stress Tests, and Other Factors.
Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders 
consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether 
through its common stock dividend or through a share 
repurchase program, substantially depends, among other 
things, on its regulatory capital requirements, including the 
annual recalibration of the Stress Capital Buffer (SCB), which 
is based upon the results of the CCAR process required by the 
FRB, and recalibration of the GSIB surcharge,as well as the
supervisory expectations and assessments regarding individual
institutions.

The FRB’s annual stress testing requirements are 

integrated into ongoing regulatory capital requirements. Citi’s 
SCB equals the maximum projected decline in its CET1 
Capital ratio under the supervisory severely adverse scenario 
over a nine-quarter CCAR measurement period, plus four 
quarters of planned common stock dividends as a percentage 
of Citi’s risk-weighted assets, subject to a minimum 
requirement of 2.5%. The SCB is calculated by the FRB using 
its proprietary data and modeling of each firm’s results. 
Accordingly, Citi’s SCB may change annually, based on the 
supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in 
variability in the calculation of Citi’s required regulatory 
CET1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach. On 
October 1, 2023, Citi’s required regulatory CET1 Capital ratio 
increased to 12.3% from 12% under the Standardized 
Approach, reflecting the increase in the SCB requirement to 
4.3% from 4.0%. In addition, a breach of the SCB and other 
regulatory capital buffers may result in gradual limitations on 
capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to 
executive officers. For additional information on the SCB, see 
“Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Buffers” above.
Moreover, changes in regulatory capital rules, 

requirements or interpretations could materially increase Citi’s 
required regulatory capital. For example, the U.S. banking 
regulators have proposed a number of changes to the U.S. 
regulatory capital framework, including, but not limited to, 
significant revisions to the U.S. Basel III rules, known as the 
Basel III Endgame (capital proposal); changes to the method 
for calculating the GSIB surcharge; and changes to aspects of 
the total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirements. The 
capital proposal would replace the Advanced Approaches with 
a new Expanded Risk-based Approach for calculating risk-

49

weighted assets. Under the capital proposal, a single capital 
buffer, including the SCB, would apply to a firm’s risk-based 
capital ratios, regardless of whether the applicable ratios result 
from the Expanded Risk-based Approach or the Modified 
Standardized Approach. Additionally, the capital proposal 
would make various changes to the calculations of credit risk, 
market risk and operational risk components of risk-weighted 
assets (see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards 
and Developments” above). All of these potential changes, if 
adopted as proposed, would likely materially impact Citi’s 
regulatory capital position and substantially increase Citi’s 
regulatory capital requirements, and thus adversely impact the 
extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.

Citi’s ability to return capital also depends on its results of 

operations and financial condition, including the capital 
impact related to its remaining divestitures, such as, among 
other things, any temporary capital impact from CTA losses 
(net of hedges) between transaction signings and closings (see 
the continued investments and the incorrect assumptions or 
estimates risk factors below); Citi’s effectiveness in planning, 
managing and calculating its level of regulatory capital and 
risk-weighted assets under both the Advanced Approaches and 
the Standardized Approach, as well as the Supplementary 
Leverage ratio (SLR); its implementation and maintenance of 
an effective capital planning process and management 
framework; forecasts of macroeconomic conditions; and 
deferred tax asset (DTA) utilization (see the ability to utilize 
DTA risk factor below). The FRB could also limit or prohibit 
capital actions, such as paying or increasing dividends or 
repurchasing common stock due to macroeconomic 
disruptions or events, some of which occurred for a period of 
time during the COVID-19 pandemic.

All firms subject to CCAR requirements, including Citi, 
will continue to be subject to a rigorous regulatory evaluation 
of capital planning practices and other reviews and 
examinations, including, but not limited to data quality, which
is a key regulatory focus, governance, risk management and 
internal controls. For example, the FRB has stated that it 
expects capital adequacy practices to continue to evolve and to 
likely be determined by its yearly cross-firm review of capital 
plan submissions. Similarly, the FRB has indicated that, as 
part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress 
testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress 
testing process may continue to be altered, including the 
number and severity of the stress test scenarios, the FRB 
modeling of Citi’s balance sheet, pre-provision net revenue 
and stress losses, and the addition of components deemed 
important by the FRB. Additionally, Citi’s ability to return 
capital may be adversely impacted if a regulatory evaluation 
or examination results in negative findings regarding absolute
capital levels or other aspects of Citi’s operations, including as 
a result of the imposition of additional capital buffers, 
limitations on capital distributions or otherwise. For 
information on limitations on Citi’s ability to return capital to 
common shareholders, as well as the CCAR process, 
supervisory stress test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see 
“Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—
Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” above and the 
risk management risk factor below.

In December 2023, the FRB announced that it will 
maintain its current framework for calculating allowances on 
loans in the supervisory stress test through the 2024 stress test 
cycle, while continuing to evaluate appropriate future 
enhancements to this framework. The impacts on Citi’s capital 
adequacy of any potential incorporation by the FRB of CECL 
into its supervisory stress tests in future stress test cycles, and 
of other potential regulatory changes in the FRB’s stress 
testing methodologies, remain unclear. For additional 
information regarding the CECL methodology, including the 
transition provisions related to the adverse regulatory capital 
effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, see 
“Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards—
Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the 
Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology” above and 
Note 1.

Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent 
of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, changes to regulatory 
capital, results from the FRB’s stress testing and CCAR 
regimes, and regulatory evaluation or examination findings, 
these changes could increase the level of capital Citi is 
required or elects to hold, including as part of Citi’s 
management buffer, thus potentially adversely impacting the 
extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.

Citi Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully 
Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Legislative Uncertainties 
and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.
Citi, its management and its businesses continue to face 
regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes, both in 
the U.S. and globally. While the ongoing regulatory and 
legislative uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too 
numerous to list completely, examples include, but are not 
limited to (i) potential changes to various aspects of the U.S. 
regulatory capital framework and requirements applicable to 
Citi, including, among others, significant revisions to the U.S. 
Basel III rules, known as the Basel III Endgame (for 
information about the Basel III Endgame, see the capital return 
risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital 
Standards Developments” above); (ii) potential fiscal, 
monetary, tax, sanctions and other changes promulgated by the 
U.S. federal government and other governments, including 
potential changes in regulatory requirements relating to 
interest rate risk management; and (iii) rapidly evolving 
legislative and regulatory requirements and other government 
initiatives in the EU, the U.S. and globally related to climate 
change and other ESG areas that vary, and may conflict, 
across jurisdictions, including any new disclosure 
requirements (see the climate change and heightened 
regulatory scrutiny and ongoing interpretation of regulatory 
changes risk factors below). References to “regulatory” refer 
to both formal regulation and the views and expectations of 
Citi’s regulators in their supervisory roles, which, as they
change over time, can have a major impact. In particular, the
U.S. regulators have indicated that the level of their
expectations is increasing and prompt negative examination
findings/ratings and enforcements actions are more likely.

For example, in February 2023, the Consumer Financial 

Protection Bureau (CFPB) proposed significant changes to the 
maximum amounts on credit card late fees, which, if adopted 

50

as proposed, would reduce credit card fee revenues in Branded 
Cards and Retail Services in USPB. In addition, U.S. and 
international regulatory and legislative initiatives have not 
always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated 
basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to 
develop with respect to their scope, interpretation, timing, 
structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even 
conflicting requirements, including within a single 
jurisdiction. 

Further, ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties 
and changes make Citi’s long-term business, balance sheet and 
strategic budget planning difficult, subject to change and 
potentially more costly and may impact its results of 
operations. U.S. and other regulators globally have 
implemented and continue to discuss various changes to 
certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing 
assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its 
businesses and business planning. Business planning must 
necessarily be based on possible or proposed rules or 
outcomes, which can change significantly upon finalization, or 
upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous 
regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change. 
Regulatory and legislative changes have also significantly 
increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the 
implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk 
factor below) and can adversely affect Citi’s competitive 
position, as well as its businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition.

Citi’s Ability to Achieve Its Objectives from Its 
Transformation, Organizational, Simplification and Other 
Strategic and Other Initiatives May Not Be as Successful as 
It Projects or Expects.
As part of its transformation initiatives, Citi continues to make 
significant investments to improve its risk and controls 
environment, modernize its data and technology infrastructure 
and further enhance safety and soundness (see “Executive 
Summary” above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk 
factor below). Citi also continues to make business-led 
investments, as part of the execution of its strategic initiatives. 
For example, Citi has been making investments across the 
Company, including hiring front office colleagues in key 
strategic markets and businesses; enhancing product 
capabilities and platforms to grow key businesses, improve 
client digital experiences and add scalability; and 
implementing new capabilities and partnerships. These 
business-led investments are designed to grow revenues as 
well as result in retention and efficiency improvements. 

Additionally, Citi has been pursuing overall simplification 

initiatives that include management and operating model 
changes and actions to enhance focus on clients and reduce 
expenses. Citi’s simplification actions also include divestiture 
of the Mexico Consumer/SBMM operations and completing 
other exits and wind-downs in order to streamline Citi and 
assist in optimizing its allocation of resources. These overall 
simplification initiatives involve various execution challenges 
and may result in higher than expected expenses, litigation and 
regulatory scrutiny, CTA and other losses or other negative 
financial or strategic impacts, which could be material (for 
information about potential CTA impacts, see the capital 

return risk factor above and the incorrect assumptions or 
estimates risk factor below).

Citi’s multiyear transformation, as well as its 

simplification initiatives, involve significant complexities and 
uncertainties. In addition, there is inherent risk that Citi’s 
transformation and simplification initiatives will not be as 
productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all. Conversely, 
failure to adequately invest in and upgrade Citi’s technology 
and processes or properly implement its enterprise-wide 
simplification could result in Citi’s inability to meet regulatory 
expectations, be sufficiently competitive, serve clients 
effectively and avoid disruptions to its businesses and 
operational errors (see the operational processes and systems 
and legal and regulatory proceedings risk factors below). 
Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns and operational 
improvements depends, in part, on factors that it cannot 
control, including, among others, macroeconomic challenges 
and uncertainties; customer, client and competitor actions; and 
ongoing regulatory requirements or changes.

Citi’s transformation, strategic and other initiatives may 

continue to evolve as its business strategies, the market 
environment and regulatory expectations change, which could 
make the initiatives more costly and more challenging to 
implement, and limit their effectiveness. 

Climate Change Presents Various Financial and Non-
Financial Risks to Citi and Its Customers and Clients.
Climate change presents both immediate and long-term risks 
to Citi and its customers and clients, with the risks expected to 
increase over time. Climate risks can arise from both physical 
risks (those risks related to the physical effects of climate 
change) and transition risks (risks related to regulatory, 
market, technological, stakeholder and legal changes from a 
transition to a low-carbon economy). Physical and transition 
risks can manifest themselves differently across Citi’s risk 
categories in the short, medium and long terms. 

Physical risks from climate change include acute risks, 

such as hurricanes, floods and droughts, as well as 
consequences of chronic changes in climate, such as rising sea 
levels, prolonged droughts and systemic changes to 
geographies and any resulting population migration. For 
example, physical risks could have adverse financial, 
operational and other impacts on Citi, both directly on its 
business and operations, and indirectly as a result of impacts 
to Citi’s clients, customers, vendors and other counterparties. 
These impacts can include destruction, damage or impairment 
of owned or leased properties and other assets, destruction or 
deterioration of the value of collateral, such as real estate, 
disruptions to business operations and supply chains and 
reduced availability or increase in the cost of insurance. 
Physical risks can also impact Citi’s credit risk exposures, for 
example, in its mortgage and commercial real estate lending 
businesses.

Transition risks may arise from changes in regulations or 

market preferences toward low-carbon industries or sectors, 
which in turn could have negative impacts on asset values, 
results of operations or the reputations of Citi and its 
customers and clients. For example, Citi’s corporate credit 
exposures include oil and gas, power and other industries that 
may experience reduced demand for carbon-intensive products 

51

due to the transition to a low-carbon economy. Failure to 
adequately consider transition risk in developing and 
executing on its business strategy could lead to a loss of 
market share, lower revenues and higher credit costs. 
Transition risks also include potential increased operational, 
compliance and energy costs driven by government policies to 
promote decarbonization. 

Moreover, increasing legislative and regulatory changes 
and uncertainties regarding climate-related risk management 
and disclosures are likely to result in increased regulatory, 
compliance, credit, reputational and other risks and costs for 
Citi. New regulations have been enacted and/or are expected 
in several jurisdictions, including the EU’s Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), the SEC climate-
related disclosures that could require disclosure of climate-
related information and the State of California’s legislation 
enacted in October 2023 requiring broad disclosure of 
greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related 
information largely beginning in 2026. In addition, Citi could 
face increased regulatory scrutiny and reputation and litigation 
risks as a result of its climate risk, sustainability and other 
ESG-related commitments and disclosures. 

Even as some regulators seek to mandate additional 
disclosure of climate-related information, Citi’s ability to 
comply with such requirements and conduct more robust 
climate-related risk analyses may be hampered by lack of 
information and reliable data. Data on climate-related risks is 
limited in availability, often based on estimated or unverified 
figures, collected and reported on a time-lag, and variable in 
quality. Modeling capabilities to analyze climate-related risks 
and interconnections are improving, but remain incomplete. 
U.S. and non-U.S. banking regulators and others are 
increasingly focusing on the issue of climate risk at financial 
institutions, both directly and with respect to their clients. For 
example, in October 2023, the FRB, FDIC and OCC jointly 
released principles that provide a high-level framework for the 
safe and sound management of exposures to climate-related 
financial risks, including physical and transition risks, for 
financial institutions with more than $100 billion in assets. 
Additionally, if Citi’s response to climate change is 
perceived to be ineffective or insufficient or Citi is unable to 
achieve its objectives or commitments relating to climate 
change, its businesses, reputation, attractiveness to certain 
investors and efforts to recruit and retain employees may 
suffer. For example, Citi's approach to supporting client 
decarbonization in a gradual and orderly way, while 
promoting energy security, may lead to both continued 
exposure to carbon-intensive activity and increased reputation 
risks from stakeholders with divergent points of view. Citi also 
faces anti-ESG challenges from certain U.S. state and other 
governments that may impact its ability to conduct certain 
business within those jurisdictions.

For information on Citi’s climate and other sustainability 

initiatives, see “Climate Change and Net Zero” below. For 
additional information on Citi’s management of climate risk, 
see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Climate Risk” 
below.

Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the 
Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, 
Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable 
Income.
At December 31, 2023, Citi’s net DTAs were $29.6 billion, 
net of a valuation allowance of $3.6 billion, of which $12.8 
billion was deducted from Citi’s CET1 Capital under the U.S. 
Basel III rules. Of this deducted amount, $12.1 billion related 
to net operating losses, foreign tax credit and general business 
credit carry-forwards, with $2.3 billion related to temporary 
differences in excess of the 10%/15% regulatory limitations, 
reduced by $1.6 billion of deferred tax liabilities, primarily 
associated with goodwill and certain other intangible assets 
that were separately deducted from capital.

Citi’s overall ability to realize its DTAs will primarily be 
dependent upon Citi’s ability to generate U.S. taxable income 
in the relevant reversal periods. Failure to realize any portion 
of the net DTAs would have a corresponding negative impact 
on Citi’s net income and financial returns.

The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs is 
complex and requires significant judgment and estimates 
regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which 
the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Forecasts 
of future taxable earnings will depend upon various factors, 
including, among others, macroeconomic conditions. In 
addition, any future increase in U.S. corporate tax rates could 
result in an increase in Citi’s DTAs, which may subject more 
of Citi’s DTAs to exclusion from regulatory capital. 

Citi has not been and does not expect to be subject to the 

base erosion anti-abuse tax (BEAT), which, if applicable to 
Citi in any given year, would have a significantly adverse 
effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital. 

For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including 
FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant 
Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 10.

Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax 
Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of 
Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in Litigation 
or Examinations and the Payment of Additional Taxes, 
Penalties or Interest.
Citi is subject to various income-based tax laws of the U.S. 
and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-
U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are 
inherently complex, and Citi must make judgments and 
interpretations about the application of these laws to its 
entities, operations and businesses. 

For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation 

and Development (OECD) Pillar 2 initiative contemplates a 
15% global minimum tax with respect to earnings in each 
country. EU member states were required to adopt the OECD 
Pillar 2 rules in 2023, with an effective date of January 1, 2024 
(unless an exception applied), and other non-U.S. countries 
have similarly adopted or are expected to adopt the rules. 
Under these rules, Citi will be required to pay a “top-up” tax 
to the extent that Citi’s effective tax rate in any given country 
is below 15%. Beginning in 2024, countries that adopted the 
OECD Pillar 2 rules in 2023 can collect the top-up tax only 
with respect to earnings of entities in their jurisdiction or 
subsidiaries of such entities. Beginning in 2025, all countries 

52

that have adopted the OECD Pillar 2 rules can collect a share 
of the top-up tax owed with respect to any member of the 
Pillar 2 multinational group. While Citi does not currently 
expect the rules to have a material impact on its earnings, 
many aspects of the application of the rules remain uncertain.
Additionally, Citi is subject to litigation or examinations 
with U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding non-income-
based tax matters. While Citi has appropriately reserved for 
such matters where there is a probable loss, and has disclosed 
reasonably possible losses, the outcome of the matters may be 
different than Citi’s expectations. Citi’s interpretations or 
application of the tax laws, including with respect to 
withholding, stamp, service and other non-income taxes, could 
differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, 
which could result in the requirement to pay additional taxes, 
penalties or interest, the reduction of certain tax benefits or the 
requirement to make adjustments to amounts recorded, which 
could be material. See Note 30 for additional information on 
litigation and examinations involving non-U.S. tax authorities.

A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co-
Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships Could 
Have a Negative Impact on Citi.
Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its 
Branded Cards and Retail Services credit card businesses with 
various retailers and merchants, whereby in the ordinary 
course of business Citi issues credit cards to consumers, 
including customers of the retailers or merchants. The five 
largest relationships across both businesses in USPB 
constituted an aggregate of approximately 11% of Citi’s 
revenues in 2023 (see “U.S. Personal Banking” above). Citi’s 
co-branding and private label agreements often provide for 
shared economics between the parties and generally have a 
fixed term.

Competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these 

relationships is significant, and Citi may not be able to 
maintain such relationships on existing terms or at all. Citi’s 
co-branding and private label relationships could also be 
negatively impacted by, among other things, the general 
economic environment, including the impacts of continued 
elevated interest rates and inflation, and lower economic 
growth rates, as well as a continuing risk of recession; changes 
in consumer sentiment, spending patterns and credit card 
usage behaviors; a decline in sales and revenues, partner store 
closures, any reduction in air and business travel, or other 
operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant; early 
termination due to a contractual breach or exercise of other 
early termination right; or other factors, including 
bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations or 
other similar events, whether due to a challenging 
macroeconomic environment or otherwise.

These events, particularly early termination and 
bankruptcies or liquidations, could negatively impact the 
results of operations or financial condition of Branded Cards, 
Retail Services or Citi as a whole, including as a result of loss 
of revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, 
impairment of purchased credit card relationships and 
contract-related intangibles or other losses (see Note 17 for 
information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally).

The Application of U.S. Resolution Plan Requirements May 
Pose a Greater Risk of Loss to Citi’s Debt and Equity 
Securities Holders, and Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan 
Submissions to Address Any Shortcomings or Deficiencies or 
Guidance Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, 
Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its 
Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually 
Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.
Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and 
submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly 
resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its 
significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 
the event of future material financial distress or failure. 

Under Citi’s preferred “single point of entry” resolution 

plan strategy, only Citigroup, the parent holding company, 
would enter into bankruptcy, while Citigroup’s material legal 
entities (as defined in the public section of its 2023 resolution 
plan, which can be found on the FRB’s and FDIC’s websites) 
would remain operational outside of any resolution or 
insolvency proceedings. As a result, Citigroup’s losses and 
any losses incurred by its material legal entity subsidiaries 
would be imposed first on holders of Citigroup’s equity 
securities and thereafter on its unsecured creditors, including 
holders of eligible long-term debt and other debt securities. 
In addition, a wholly owned, direct subsidiary of 

Citigroup serves as a resolution funding vehicle (the IHC) to 
which Citigroup has transferred, and has agreed to transfer on 
an ongoing basis, certain assets. The obligations of Citigroup 
and of the IHC, respectively, under the amended and restated 
secured support agreement, are secured on a senior basis by 
the assets of Citigroup (other than shares in subsidiaries of the 
parent company and certain other assets), and the assets of the 
IHC, as applicable. As a result, claims of the operating 
material legal entities against the assets of Citigroup with 
respect to such secured assets are effectively senior to 
unsecured obligations of Citigroup. Citi’s single point of entry 
resolution plan strategy and the obligations under the amended 
and restated secured support agreement may result in the 
recapitalization of and/or provision of liquidity to Citi’s 
operating material legal entities, and the commencement of 
bankruptcy proceedings by Citigroup at an earlier stage of 
financial stress than might otherwise occur without such 
mechanisms in place.

In line with the FRB’s TLAC rule, Citigroup’s 

shareholders and unsecured creditors—including its unsecured 
long-term debt holders—would bear any losses resulting from 
Citigroup’s bankruptcy. Accordingly, any value realized by 
holders of its unsecured long-term debt may not be sufficient 
to repay the amounts owed to such debt holders in the event of 
a bankruptcy or other resolution proceeding of Citigroup. For 
additional information on Citi’s single point of entry 
resolution plan strategy and the IHC and secured support 
agreement, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” 
below.

On November 22, 2022, the FRB and FDIC issued 
feedback on the resolution plans filed on July 1, 2021 by the 
eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi. The FRB and FDIC 
identified one shortcoming, but no deficiencies, in Citi’s 2021 
resolution plan. The shortcoming related to data integrity and 
data quality management issues, specifically, weaknesses in 

53

Citi’s processes and practices for producing certain data that 
could materially impact its resolution capabilities. If a 
shortcoming is not satisfactorily explained or addressed 
before, or in, the submission of the next resolution plan, the 
shortcoming may be found to be a deficiency in the next 
resolution plan (see discussion below). Citi submitted its 2023 
resolution plan in June 2023. More generally, data continues
to be a subject of regulatory focus, and Citi continues to work
on enhancing its data availability and quality.

Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine 

that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although 
not defined, is generally understood to mean the regulators do 
not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow Citi 
to be resolved in a way that protects systemically important 
functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not 
facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan 
that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be 
subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity 
requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or 
operations. If within two years from the imposition of any 
such requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated 
any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be 
required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such 
restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s 
reputation, market and investor perception, operations and 
strategy.

Citi’s Performance and Its Ability to Effectively Execute Its 
Transformation and Strategic and Other Initiatives Could Be 
Negatively Impacted if It Is Not Able to Hire and Retain 
Qualified Employees.
Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual 
businesses largely depend on the talents and efforts of its 
diverse and highly qualified colleagues. Specifically, Citi’s 
continued ability to compete in each of its lines of business, to 
manage its businesses effectively and to execute its 
transformation and strategic and other initiatives, including, 
for example, hiring front office colleagues to grow businesses 
or hiring colleagues to support Citi’s transformation and 
strategic and other initiatives, depends on its ability to attract 
new colleagues and to retain and motivate its existing 
colleagues. If Citi is unable to continue to attract, retain and 
motivate highly qualified colleagues, Citi’s performance, 
including its competitive position, the execution of its 
transformation and strategic and other initiatives and its results 
of operations could be negatively impacted.

Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues 
depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of 
Citi’s control. For example, the competition for talent 
continues to be particularly intense due to factors such as low 
unemployment and changes in worker expectations, concerns 
and preferences, including an increased demand for remote 
work options and other job flexibility. Also, the banking 
industry generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation 
of employee compensation than other industries, including 
deferral and clawback requirements for incentive 
compensation, which can make it unusually challenging for 
Citi to compete in labor markets against businesses, including, 
for example, technology companies, that are not subject to 

such regulation. In addition, in 2023 Citi announced plans to 
reduce management layers from 13 to a median of eight as 
part of organizational simplification initiatives that also 
involve significant reductions in functional roles, which could 
also impact its ability to attract and retain colleagues. Other 
factors that could impact its ability to attract, retain and 
motivate colleagues include, among other things, Citi’s 
presence in a particular market or region, the professional and 
development opportunities, its reputation and its diversity. For 
information on Citi’s colleagues and workforce management, 
see “Human Capital Resources and Management” below.

Citi Faces Increased Competitive Challenges, Including 
from Financial Services and Other Companies and 
Emerging Technologies.
Citi operates in an increasingly evolving and competitive 
business environment, which includes both financial and non-
financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online 
banks, private credit and financial technology companies and 
others. These companies compete on the basis of, among other 
factors, size, reach, quality and type of products and services 
offered, price, technology and reputation. Certain competitors 
may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent 
legal and regulatory requirements, whether due to size, 
jurisdiction, entity type or other factors, placing Citi at a 
competitive disadvantage.

For example, Citi competes with other financial services 

companies in the U.S. and globally that have grown rapidly 
over the last several years or have developed and introduced 
new products and services. Potential mergers and acquisitions 
involving traditional financial services companies such as 
regional banks or credit card issuers, as well as networks and 
merchant acquirers, may also increase competition and impact 
Citi’s ability to offer competitive pricing and rewards. Non-
traditional financial services firms, such as private credit and 
financial technology companies, are less regulated and 
continue to expand their offerings of services traditionally 
provided by financial institutions. The growth of certain of 
these competitors has increased market and counterparty credit 
risks, particularly in a more challenging macroeconomic 
environment (see the risk factor on credit and concentrations 
of risk below). In addition, emerging technologies have the 
potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption in 
the financial services industry. For example, despite 
difficulties and turmoil faced by the digital asset market in 
recent years, clients and investors have exhibited a sustained 
interest in digital assets. Financial services firms and other 
market participants have begun to offer services related to 
those assets. Citi may not be able to provide the same or 
similar services for legal or regulatory reasons, which may be 
exacerbated by rapidly evolving and conflicting regulatory 
requirements, and due to increased compliance and other risks. 
Further, changes in the payments space (e.g., instant and 24x7 
payments) are accelerating, and, as a result, certain of Citi’s 
products and services could become less competitive. 

Increased competition and emerging technologies have 
required and could require Citi to change or adapt its products 
and services, as well as invest in and develop related 
infrastructure, to attract and retain customers or clients or to 
compete more effectively with competitors, including new 

54

market entrants. Simultaneously, as Citi develops new 
products and services leveraging emerging technologies, new 
risks may emerge that, if not designed and governed 
adequately, may result in control gaps and in Citi operating 
outside of its risk appetite. For example, failure to strategically 
embrace the potential of artificial intelligence (AI) may result 
in a competitive disadvantage to Citi. At the same time, as a 
new technology, use of AI without sufficient controls, 
governance and risk management may result in increased risks 
across all of Citi’s risk categories. As another example, instant 
and 24x7 payments products could be accompanied by 
challenges to forecasting and managing liquidity, as well as 
increased operational and compliance risks. 

Moreover, Citi relies on third parties to support certain of 

its product and service offerings, which may put Citi at a 
disadvantage to competitors who may directly offer a broader 
array of products and services. Also, Citi’s businesses, results 
of operations and reputation may suffer if any third party is 
unable to provide adequate support for such product and 
service offerings, whether due to operational incidents or 
otherwise (see the operational processes and systems, 
cybersecurity and emerging markets risk factors below).

To the extent that Citi is not able to compete effectively 
with financial services companies, including private credit and 
financial technology companies, and non-financial services 
firms, Citi could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, 
which could result in loss of customers and market share, and 
its businesses, results of operations and financial condition 
could suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, 
see the co-brand and private label cards and qualified 
colleagues risk factors above and “Supervision, Regulation 
and Other—Competition” below.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

A Failure or Disruption of Citi’s Operational Processes or 
Systems Could Negatively Impact Its Reputation, Customers, 
Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial 
Condition.
Citi’s global operations rely heavily on its technology systems 
and infrastructure, including the accurate, timely and secure 
processing, management, storage and transmission of data, 
including confidential transactions, and other information, as 
well as the monitoring of a substantial amount of data and 
complex transactions in real time. Citi obtains and stores an 
extensive amount of personal and client-specific information 
for its consumer and institutional customers and clients, and 
must accurately record and reflect their account transactions. 
Citi’s operations must also comply with complex and evolving 
laws, regulations and heightened regulatory expectations in the 
countries in which it operates (see the implementation and 
interpretation of regulatory changes and legal proceedings risk 
factors below). With the evolving proliferation of new 
technologies and the increasing use of the internet, mobile 
devices and cloud services to conduct financial transactions 
and customers’ and clients’ increasing use of online banking 
and trading systems and other platforms, large global financial 
institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, 
subject to an ever-increasing risk of operational loss, failure or 
disruption.

Although Citi has continued to upgrade its technology, 
including systems to automate processes and gain efficiencies, 
operational incidents are unpredictable and can arise from 
numerous sources, not all of which are fully within Citi’s 
control. These include, among others, operational or execution 
failures, or deficiencies by third parties, including third parties 
that provide products or services to Citi (e.g., cloud service 
providers), other market participants or those that otherwise 
have an ongoing partnership or business relationship with Citi; 
deficiencies in processes or controls; inadequate management 
of data governance practices, data controls and monitoring 
mechanisms that may adversely impact internal or external 
reporting and decision-making; cyber or information security 
incidents (see the cybersecurity risk factor below); human 
error, such as manual transaction processing errors (e.g., 
erroneous payments to lenders or manual errors by traders that 
cause system and market disruptions or losses), which can be 
exacerbated by staffing challenges and processing backlogs; 
fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties; 
insufficient (or limited) straight-through processing between 
legacy or bespoke systems and any failure to design and 
effectively operate controls that mitigate operational risks 
associated with those legacy or bespoke systems, leading to 
potential risk of errors and operating losses; accidental system 
or technological failure; electrical or telecommunication 
outages; failures of or cyber incidents involving computer 
servers or infrastructure, including cloud services; or other 
similar losses or damage to Citi’s property or assets (see also 
the climate change risk factor above). 

For example, operational incidents can arise as a result of 
failures by third parties with which Citi does business, such as 
failures by internet, mobile technology and cloud service 
providers or other vendors to adequately follow procedures or 
processes, safeguard their systems or prevent system 
disruptions or cyberattacks. Failure by Citi to develop, 
implement and operate a third-party risk management program 
commensurate with the level of risk, complexity and nature of 
its third-party relationships can also result in operational 
incidents. In addition, Citi has experienced and could 
experience further losses associated with manual transaction 
processing errors, including erroneous payments to lenders or 
manual errors by Citi traders that cause system and market 
disruptions and losses for Citi and its clients. Irrespective of 
the sophistication of the technology utilized by Citi, there will 
always be some room for human and other errors. In view of 
the large transactions in which Citi engages, such errors could 
result in significant losses. While Citi has change management 
processes in place to appropriately upgrade its operational 
processes and systems to ensure that any changes introduced 
do not adversely impact security and operational continuity, 
such change management can fail or be ineffective. 
Furthermore, when Citi introduces new products, systems or 
processes, new operational risks that may arise from those 
changes may not be identified, or adequate controls to mitigate 
the identified risks may not be appropriately implemented or 
operate as designed. 

Incidents that impact information security, technology 

operations or other operational processes may cause 
disruptions and/or malfunctions within Citi’s businesses (e.g., 
the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking 

55

system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations 
of its clients, customers or other third parties. In addition, 
operational incidents could involve the failure or 
ineffectiveness of internal processes or controls. Given Citi’s 
global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed 
by Citi, certain failures, errors or actions may be repeated or 
compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which 
would further increase the consequences and costs. 
Operational incidents could result in financial losses and other 
costs as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of 
confidential and other information or assets, which could 
significantly negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, 
clients, businesses or results of operations and financial 
condition. Cyber-related and other operational incidents can 
also result in legal and regulatory actions or proceedings, fines 
and other costs (see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk 
factor below).

For information on Citi’s management of operational risk, 

see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk” below.

Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks 
Will Continue to Be Susceptible to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Incidents 
That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Non-Availability, 
Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer 
Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs 
to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial 
Losses. 
Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to 
ongoing attempted cyberattacks, such as unauthorized access, 
loss or destruction of data (including confidential client 
information), account takeovers, disruptions of service, 
phishing, malware, ransomware, computer viruses or other 
malicious code and other similar events. These threats can 
arise from external parties, including cyber criminals, cyber 
terrorists, hacktivists (individuals or groups using cyberattacks 
to promote a political or social agenda) and nation-state actors, 
as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly engage in 
or enable malicious cyber activities. Citi develops its own 
software and relies on third-party applications and software, 
which are susceptible to vulnerability exploitations. Software 
leveraged in financial services and other industries continues 
to be impacted by an increasing number of zero-day 
vulnerabilities, thus increasing inherent cyber risk to Citi. 

The increasing use of mobile and other digital banking 
platforms and services, cloud technologies and connectivity 
solutions to facilitate remote working for Citi’s employees all 
increase Citi’s exposure to cybersecurity risks. Citi is also 
susceptible to cyberattacks given, among other things, its size 
and scale, high-profile brand, global footprint and prominent 
role in the financial system, as well as the ongoing wind-down 
of its businesses in Russia (see the macroeconomic and 
geopolitical risk factor above and “Managing Global Risk—
Other Risks—Country Risk—Russia” below). Additionally, 
Citi continues to operate in multiple jurisdictions in the midst 
of geopolitical unrest, including active conflicts in Ukraine 
and the Middle East, which could expose Citi to heightened 
risk of insider threat, politically motivated hacktivism or other 
cyber threats. 

Citi continues to experience increased exposure to 
cyberattacks through third parties, in part because financial 
institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with 
central agents, exchanges and clearing houses. Third parties 
with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other 
third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, and any 
such third parties’ downstream service providers, also pose 
cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers 
are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, 
Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer 
credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing 
websites and developing software for new products and 
services. These relationships allow for the storage and 
processing of customer information by third-party hosting of, 
or access to, Citi websites. This could lead to compromise or 
the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, 
resulting in security breaches or business disruptions 
impacting Citi customers, employees or operations. While 
many of Citi’s agreements with third parties include 
indemnification provisions, Citi may not be able to recover 
sufficiently, or at all, under these provisions to adequately 
offset any losses and other adverse impacts Citi may incur 
from third-party cyber incidents. 

Citi and some of its third-party partners have been 

subjected to attempted and sometimes successful cyberattacks 
over the last several years, including (i) denial of service 
attacks, which attempt to interrupt service to clients and 
customers; (ii) hacking and malicious software installations 
intended to gain unauthorized access to information systems or 
to disrupt those systems and/or impact availability or privacy 
of confidential data, with objectives including, but not limited 
to, extortion payments or causing reputational damage; (iii) 
data breaches due to unauthorized access to customer account 
or other data; and (iv) malicious software attacks on client 
systems, in attempts to gain unauthorized access to Citi 
systems or client data under the guise of normal client 
transactions. 

While Citi’s monitoring and protection services have 
historically generally succeeded in detecting, thwarting and/or 
responding to attacks targeting its systems before they become 
significant, certain past incidents resulted in limited losses, as 
well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat 
of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance 
that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could 
occur more frequently, via novel tactics, including leveraging 
of tools made possible by emerging technologies, and on a 
more significant scale. Despite the significant resources Citi 
allocates to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly 
upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as 
intrusion detection and prevention systems and firewalls to 
safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee 
that these measures or any other measures can provide 
sufficient security. Because the techniques used to initiate 
cyberattacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not 
recognized until launched or even later, Citi may be unable to 
implement effective preventive measures or otherwise 
proactively address these methods. In addition, cyber threats 
and cyberattack techniques change, develop and evolve 
rapidly, including from emerging technologies such as 
artificial intelligence, cloud computing and quantum 

56

computing. Given the frequency and sophistication of 
cyberattacks, the determination of the severity and potential 
impact of a cyber incident may not become apparent for a 
substantial period of time following detection of the incident. 
Also, while Citi strives to implement measures to reduce the 
exposure resulting from outsourcing risks, such as performing 
security control assessments of third-party vendors and 
limiting third-party access to the least privileged level 
necessary to perform job functions, these measures cannot 
prevent all third-party related cyberattacks or data breaches. In 
addition, the risk of insider threat may be elevated in the near 
term due to Citi’s overall simplification initiatives, including 
streamlining its global staff functions. 

Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, 

confidential or proprietary customer, client or employee 
information; damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients, other 
counterparties and the market; customer dissatisfaction; and 
additional costs to Citi, including expenses such as repairing 
or replacing systems, replacing customer payment cards, credit 
monitoring or adding new personnel or protection 
technologies. Cyber incidents can also result in regulatory 
penalties, loss of revenues, deposit flight, exposure to 
litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds to 
both Citi and its clients and customers, and disruption to Citi’s 
operational systems (see the operational processes and systems 
risk factor above). Moreover, the increasing risk of cyber 
incidents has resulted in increased legislative and regulatory 
action on cybersecurity, including, among other things, 
scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity protection services, laws and 
regulations to enhance protection of consumers’ personal data 
and mandated disclosure on cybersecurity matters. For 
example, in July 2023, the SEC finalized new rules requiring 
timely disclosure of material cybersecurity incidents as well as 
other annual cyber-related disclosures (see “Managing Global 
Risk—Operational Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below). 

While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject 

to policy terms and conditions including significant self-
insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such 
insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and 
may not take into account reputational harm, the costs of 
which are impossible to quantify. 

For additional information about Citi’s management of 

cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational 
Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below. 

Changes or Errors in Accounting Assumptions, Judgments 
or Estimates, or the Application of Certain Accounting 
Principles, Could Result in Significant Losses or Other 
Adverse Impacts.
U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions, 
judgments and estimates in preparing its financial statements, 
including, among other items, the estimate of the ACL; 
reserves related to litigation, regulatory and tax matters; 
valuation of DTAs; the fair values of certain assets and 
liabilities; and the assessment of goodwill and other assets for 
impairment. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are 
inherently limited because they involve techniques, including 
the use of historical data in many circumstances, that cannot 
anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the 
markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the 

specifics and timing of such outcomes. For example, many 
models used by Citi include assumptions about correlation or 
lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other 
market indicators that may not hold in times of market stress, 
limited liquidity or other unforeseen circumstances. 

If Citi’s assumptions, judgments or estimates underlying 

its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual or 
subsequent events, Citi could experience unexpected losses or 
other adverse impacts, some of which could be significant. 
Citi could also experience declines in its stock price, be 
subject to legal and regulatory proceedings and incur fines and 
other losses. For additional information on the key areas for 
which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s 
financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and 
Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 16. For 
example, the CECL methodology requires that Citi provide 
reserves for a current estimate of lifetime expected credit 
losses for its loan portfolios and other financial assets, as 
applicable, at the time those assets are originated or acquired. 
This estimate is adjusted each period for changes in expected 
lifetime credit losses. Citi’s ACL estimate depends upon its 
CECL models and assumptions; forecasted macroeconomic 
conditions, including, among other things, the U.S. 
unemployment rate and U.S. inflation-adjusted gross domestic 
product (real GDP); and the credit indicators, composition and 
other characteristics of Citi’s loan portfolios and other 
applicable financial assets. These model assumptions and 
forecasted macroeconomic conditions will change over time, 
resulting in variability in Citi’s ACL and, thus, impact its 
results of operations and financial condition, as well as 
regulatory capital due to the CECL phase-in (see the capital 
return risk factor above). 

Moreover, Citi has incurred losses related to its foreign 

operations that are reported in the CTA components of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). In 
accordance with U.S. GAAP, a sale, substantial liquidation or 
other deconsolidation event of any foreign operations, such as 
those related to Citi’s remaining divestitures or legacy 
businesses, would result in reclassification of any foreign CTA 
component of AOCI related to that foreign operation, 
including related hedges and taxes, into Citi’s earnings. For 
example, Citi could incur a significant loss on sale due to CTA 
losses related to any signing of a sale agreement for its 
remaining consumer banking divestitures (see the capital 
return and continued investments risk factors above). The 
majority of these losses would be regulatory capital neutral at 
closing. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policy 
for foreign currency translation and its foreign CTA 
components of AOCI, see Notes 1 and 21. 

Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards 
or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How 
Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.
Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards 
that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or 
interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, 
including those areas where Citi is required to make 
assumptions or estimates. Changes to financial accounting or 

57

reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or 
required by the FASB, the SEC, U.S. banking regulators or 
others, could present operational challenges and could also 
require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates 
it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which 
could negatively impact how it records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations generally and/or 
with respect to particular businesses. See Note 1 for additional 
information on Citi’s accounting policies and changes in 
accounting, including the expected impacts on Citi’s results of 
operations and financial condition.

If Citi’s Risk Management and Other Processes, Strategies 
or Models Are Deficient or Ineffective, Citi May Incur 
Significant Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital 
Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted.
Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management 
and other processes and strategies, including the use of models 
in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in 
conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part 
of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across the 
Company. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and 
manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks 
and the reliability of the data are made more challenging 
within a large, global financial institution, such as Citi, 
particularly due to complex, diverse and rapidly changing 
financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates. 
Unexpected losses can result from untimely, inaccurate or 
incomplete processes and data. As discussed below, in 
October 2020, Citigroup and Citibank entered into consent 
orders with the FRB and OCC that require Citigroup and 
Citibank to make improvements in various aspects of 
enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality 
management and governance, and internal controls (see “Citi’s 
Consent Order Compliance” above and the legal and 
regulatory proceedings risk factor below).

Citi’s risk management and other processes, strategies and 
models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, 
including the use of historical data in many circumstances, 
assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every 
economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi 
operates, particularly given various macroeconomic, 
geopolitical and other challenges and uncertainties (see the 
macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factor 
above), nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of 
such outcomes. For example, many models used by Citi 
include assumptions about correlation or lack thereof among 
prices of various asset classes or other market indicators that 
may not necessarily hold in times of market stress, limited 
liquidity or other unforeseen circumstances, or identify 
changes in markets or client behaviors not yet inherent in 
historical data. Citi could incur significant losses, receive
negative regulatory evaluation or examination findings or be
subject to additional enforcement actions, and its regulatory 
capital, capital ratios and ability to return capital could be 
negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management and other 
processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data 
in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are 
deficient or ineffective. For additional information, see the 
capital return risk factor above and the heightened regulatory 

scrutiny and ongoing interpretation of regulatory changes risk 
factor below. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also 
result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk reporting.
Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, 
including its credit, market and operational risk models, 
currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and 
approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or 
enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Citi is 
required to notify and obtain preapproval from both the OCC 
and FRB prior to implementing certain risk-weighted asset 
treatments, as well as certain model changes, resulting in a 
more challenging environment within which Citi must operate 
in managing its risk-weighted assets. Modifications or 
requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as 
any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking 
regulators regarding the U.S. regulatory capital framework 
applicable to Citi, including, but not limited to, potential 
revisions to the U.S. Basel III rules, known as the Basel III 
Endgame (for information about the Basel III Endgame, see 
the capital return risk factor and “Capital Resources—
Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above), have 
resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes 
to Citi’s risk-weighted assets. These changes can negatively 
impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to meet its regulatory 
capital requirements. 

CREDIT RISKS

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the 
Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.
Citi has credit exposures to consumer, corporate and public 
sector borrowers and other counterparties in the U.S. and 
various countries and jurisdictions globally, including end-of-
period consumer loans of $389 billion and end-of-period 
corporate loans of $300 billion at December 31, 2023. For 
additional information on Citi’s corporate and consumer loan 
portfolios, see “Managing Global Risk—Corporate Credit” 
and “—Consumer Credit” below.

A default by or a significant downgrade in the credit 
ratings of a borrower or other counterparty, or a decline in the 
credit quality or value of any underlying collateral, exposes 
Citi to credit risk. Despite Citi’s target client strategy, various 
macroeconomic, geopolitical, market and other factors, among 
other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and credit costs, 
particularly for vulnerable sectors, industries or countries (see 
the macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties and co-
branding and private label credit card risk factors above and 
the emerging markets risk factor below). For example, a 
weakening of economic conditions can adversely affect 
borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations, as well as result 
in Citi being unable to liquidate the collateral it holds or 
forced to liquidate the collateral at prices that do not cover the 
full amount owed to Citi. Citi is also a member of various 
central clearing counterparties and could incur financial losses 
as a result of defaults by other clearing members due to the 
requirements of clearing members to share losses. 
Additionally, due to the interconnectedness among financial 
institutions, concerns about the creditworthiness of or defaults 
by a financial institution could spread to other financial market 
participants and result in market-wide losses and disruption. 

58

For example, the failure of regional banks and other banking 
stresses in the first half of 2023 resulted in market volatility 
across the financial sector.

While Citi provides reserves for expected losses for its 
credit exposures, as applicable, such reserves are subject to 
judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from 
actual future events. Under the CECL accounting standard, the 
ACL reflects expected losses, which has resulted in and could 
lead to additional volatility in the allowance and the provision 
for credit losses (including provisions for loans and unfunded 
lending commitments, and ACL builds for Other assets) as 
forecasts of economic conditions change. For additional 
information, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates and 
changes to financial accounting and reporting standards risk 
factors above. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see 
“Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” 
below and Notes 1 and 16. For additional information on 
Citi’s credit and country risk, see also each respective 
business’s results of operations above, “Managing Global Risk
—Credit Risk” and “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—
Country Risk” below and Notes 15 and 16. 

Concentrations of risk to clients or counterparties engaged 

in the same or related industries or doing business in a 
particular geography, or to a particular product or asset class, 
especially credit and market risks, can also increase Citi’s risk 
of significant losses. For example, Citi routinely executes a 
high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign 
exchange transactions with non-U.S. sovereigns and with 
counterparties in the financial services industry, including 
banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, 
central banks and other financial institutions. Moreover, Citi 
has indemnification obligations in connection with various 
transactions that expose it to concentrations of risk, including 
credit risk from hedging or reinsurance arrangements related 
to those obligations (see Note 28). A rapid deterioration of a 
large borrower or other counterparty or within a sector or 
country in which Citi has large exposures or indemnifications 
or unexpected market dislocations could lead to concerns 
about the creditworthiness of other borrowers or 
counterparties in a certain geography and in related or 
dependent industries, and such conditions could cause Citi to 
incur significant losses.

LIQUIDITY RISKS

Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations and Financial 
Condition Could Be Negatively Impacted if It Does Not 
Effectively Manage Its Liquidity. 
As a large, global financial institution, adequate liquidity and 
sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s 
liquidity, sources of funding and costs of funding can be 
significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot 
control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets 
(e.g., the failure of regional banks and other banking stresses 
in the first half of 2023); changes in fiscal and monetary 
policies and regulatory requirements; negative investor 
perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness; deposit outflows or 
unfavorable changes in deposit mix; unexpected increases in 
cash or collateral requirements; credit ratings; and the 
consequent inability to monetize available liquidity resources. 

In addition, Citi competes with other banks and financial 
institutions for both institutional and consumer deposits, which 
represent Citi’s most stable and lowest cost source of long-
term funding. The competition for deposits has continued to 
increase, including as a result of quantitative tightening by 
central banks, the current higher interest rate environment and 
fixed income alternatives for customer funds. 

Further, Citi’s costs to obtain and access wholesale 
funding are directly related to changes in interest and currency 
exchange rates and its credit spreads. Changes in Citi’s credit 
spreads are driven by both external market factors and factors 
specific to Citi, such as negative views by investors of the 
financial services industry or Citi’s financial prospects, and 
can be highly volatile. For additional information on Citi’s 
primary sources of funding, see “Managing Global Risk—
Liquidity Risk” below. 

Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired and its 
cost of funding could also increase if other market participants 
are seeking to access the markets at the same time or to a 
greater extent than expected, or if market appetite for 
corporate debt securities declines, as is likely to occur in a 
liquidity stress event or other market crisis. Citi’s ability to 
sell assets may also be impaired if other market participants 
are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or a liquid 
market does not exist for such assets. Additionally, unexpected 
changes in client needs due to idiosyncratic events or market 
conditions could result in greater than expected drawdowns 
from off-balance sheet committed facilities. A sudden drop in 
market liquidity could also cause a temporary or protracted 
dislocation of capital markets activity. In addition, clearing 
organizations, central banks, clients and financial institutions 
with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require 
additional collateral during challenging market conditions, 
which could further impair Citi’s liquidity. If Citi fails to 
effectively manage its liquidity, its businesses, results of 
operations and financial condition could be negatively 
impacted.

Limitations on the payments that Citigroup Inc. receives 

from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. As a 
holding company, Citigroup Inc. relies on interest, dividends, 
distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund 
dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. 
Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be 
subject to capital adequacy or other liquidity, regulatory or 
contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such 
payments, including any local regulatory stress test 
requirements and inter-affiliate arrangements entered into in 
connection with Citigroup Inc.’s resolution plan. Citigroup 
Inc.’s broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are subject to 
restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates, as 
well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with 
them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. 

A bank holding company is also required by law to act as 
a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary 
banks. As a result, the FRB may require Citigroup Inc. to 
commit resources to its subsidiary banks even if doing so is 
not otherwise in the interests of Citigroup Inc. or its 
shareholders or creditors, reducing the amount of funds 
available to meet its obligations.

A Ratings Downgrade Could Adversely Impact Citi’s 
Funding and Liquidity.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch Ratings, Moody’s 
Investors Service and S&P Global Ratings, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries. Their ratings of 
Citi and its rated subsidiaries’ long-term debt and short-term 
obligations are based on firm-specific factors, including the 
financial strength of Citi and such subsidiaries, as well as 
factors that are not entirely within the control of Citi and its 
subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating 
methodologies and assumptions, potential impact from 
negative actions on U.S. sovereign ratings and conditions 
affecting the financial services industry and markets generally.
Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their 

current respective ratings and outlooks. Rating downgrades 
could negatively impact Citi and its rated subsidiaries’ ability 
to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as 
well as increase credit spreads and the costs of those funds. A 
ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi 
and its rated subsidiaries’ ability to obtain funding and 
liquidity due to reduced funding capacity and the impact from 
derivative triggers, which could require Citi and its rated 
subsidiaries to meet cash obligations and collateral 
requirements or permit counterparties to terminate certain 
contracts. In addition, a ratings downgrade could have a 
negative impact on other funding sources such as secured 
financing and other margined transactions for which there may 
be no explicit triggers. 

Furthermore, a credit ratings downgrade could have 

impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not 
possible to quantify. Some of Citi’s counterparties and clients 
could have ratings limitations on their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. 
Certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading 
counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their 
business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain 
market instruments, and limit or withdraw deposits placed 
with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in 
customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only 
Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of 
certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the 
potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit 
ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

COMPLIANCE RISKS

Significantly Heightened Regulatory Expectations and 
Scrutiny in the U.S. and Globally and Ongoing 
Interpretation and Implementation of Regulatory and 
Legislative Requirements and Changes Have Increased 
Citi’s Compliance, Regulatory and Other Risks and Costs.
Large financial institutions, such as Citi, face significantly 
heightened regulatory expectations and scrutiny in the U.S. 
and globally, including with respect to, among other things, 
governance, infrastructure, data and risk management 
practices and controls. These regulatory expectations extend to 
their employees and agents and also include, among other 
things, those related to customer and client protection, market 
practices, anti-money laundering, increasingly complex 
sanctions and disclosure regimes and various regulatory 

59

reporting requirements. U.S. financial institutions also face 
increased expectations and scrutiny in the wake of the failures 
of several regional banks and other banking stresses in the first 
half of 2023. In addition, Citi is continually required to 
interpret and implement extensive and frequently changing 
regulatory and legislative requirements in the U.S. and other 
jurisdictions in which it does business, which may overlap or 
conflict across jurisdictions, resulting in substantial 
compliance, regulatory and other risks and costs.

A failure to comply with these expectations and 
requirements, even if inadvertent, or resolve any identified 
deficiencies in a timely and sufficiently satisfactory manner to 
regulators, could result in increased regulatory oversight; 
material restrictions, including, among others, imposition of
additional capital buffers and limitations on capital
distributions; enforcement proceedings; penalties; and fines 
(see the capital return risk factor above and legal and 
regulatory proceedings risk factor below). 

Over the past several years, Citi has been required to 

implement a large number of regulatory and legislative 
changes, including new regulatory or legislative requirements 
or regimes, across its businesses and functions, and these 
changes continue. The changes themselves may be complex 
and subject to interpretation, and result in changes to Citi’s 
businesses. In addition, the changes require continued 
substantial technology and other investments. In some cases, 
Citi’s implementation of a regulatory or legislative 
requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or 
conflicting regulatory guidance from multiple jurisdictions
(including various U.S. states) and regulators, legal challenges 
or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact 
new rules. 

Examples of regulatory or legislative changes that have 
resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) the 
U.S. regulatory capital framework and requirements, which 
have continued to evolve (see the capital return risk factor and 
“Capital Resources” above); (ii) various laws relating to the 
limitation of cross-border data movement and/or collection 
and use of customer information, including data localization 
and protection and privacy laws, which also can conflict with 
or increase compliance complexity with respect to other laws, 
including anti-money laundering laws; and (iii) the EU’s 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, which may 
overlap but also diverge from climate-related disclosure 
requirements expected to come into effect in other 
jurisdictions, including in the U.S. In addition, certain U.S. 
regulatory agencies and states and non-U.S. authorities have 
prioritized issues of social, economic and racial justice, and 
are in the process of considering ways in which these issues 
can be mitigated, including through rulemaking, supervision 
and other means, even while certain U.S. state and other 
governments are pursuing and signaling challenges that may 
conflict with corporate ESG initiatives. 

Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings, Examinations, Investigations, Consent Orders 
and Related Compliance Efforts and Other Inquiries That 
Could Result in Large Monetary Penalties, Supervisory or 
Enforcement Orders, Business Restrictions, Limitations on 

Dividends, Changes to Directors and/or Officers and 
Collateral Consequences Arising from Such Outcomes.
At any given time, Citi is a party to a significant number of 
legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous 
governmental and regulatory examinations. Additionally, Citi 
remains subject to governmental and regulatory investigations, 
consent orders (see discussion below) and related compliance 
efforts, and other inquiries. Citi could also be subject to 
enforcement proceedings and negative regulatory evaluation
or examination findings not only because of violations of laws 
and regulations, but also due to failures, as determined by its 
regulators, to have adequate policies and procedures, or to 
remedy deficiencies on a timely basis (see also the capital 
return and resolution plan risk factors above). Citi’s regulators 
have broad powers and discretion under their prudential and 
supervisory authority, and have pursued active inspection and 
investigatory oversight.

As previously disclosed, the October 2020 FRB and OCC 

consent orders require Citigroup and Citibank to implement 
extensive targeted action plans and submit quarterly progress 
reports on a timely and sufficient basis detailing the results 
and status of improvements relating principally to various 
aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data 
quality management and governance, and internal controls. 
These improvements will result in continued significant 
investments by Citi during 2024 and beyond, as an essential 
part of Citi’s broader transformation efforts to enhance its risk, 
controls, data and finance infrastructure and compliance. 
There can be no assurance that such improvements will be 
implemented in a manner satisfactory, in both timing and 
sufficiency, to the FRB and OCC. 

Although there are no restrictions on Citi’s ability to serve 

its clients, the OCC consent order requires Citibank to obtain 
prior approval of any significant new acquisition, including 
any portfolio or business acquisition, excluding ordinary 
course transactions. Moreover, the OCC consent order 
provides that the OCC has the right to assess future civil 
money penalties or take other supervisory and/or enforcement 
actions. Such actions by the OCC could include imposing 
business restrictions, including possible limitations on the 
declaration or payment of dividends and changes in directors 
and/or senior executive officers. More generally, the OCC 
and/or the FRB could take additional enforcement or other 
actions if the regulatory agency believes that Citi has not met 
regulatory expectations regarding compliance with the consent 
orders. For additional information regarding the consent 
orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above.

The global judicial, regulatory and political environment 
has generally been challenging for large financial institutions, 
which have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. The 
complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement 
regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s 
operations, also means that a single event or issue may give 
rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and 
regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state 
agencies and authorities in the U.S. or by multiple regulators 
and other governmental entities in foreign jurisdictions, as 
well as multiple civil litigation claims in multiple jurisdictions. 
Violations of law by other financial institutions may also 
result in regulatory scrutiny of Citi. Responding to regulatory 

60

inquiries and proceedings can be time consuming and costly, 
and divert management attention from Citi’s businesses. 
U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly 
focused on the culture of financial services firms, including 
Citi, as well as “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the 
risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, 
including third parties, that could harm clients, customers, 
employees or the integrity of the markets, such as improperly 
creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services 
or improper incentive compensation programs with respect 
thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or 
failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. 

In addition to the greater focus on conduct risk, the 
general heightened scrutiny and expectations from regulators 
could lead to investigations and other inquiries, as well as 
remediation requirements, regulatory restrictions, structural 
changes, more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings, 
civil litigation and higher compliance and other risks and 
costs. For additional information, see the capital return and
heightened regulatory scrutiny and ongoing interpretation of
regulatory changes risk factors above. Further, while Citi takes 
numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees 
and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, 
employees or the integrity of the markets, such behavior may 
not always be deterred or prevented. 

Moreover, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and 

regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has remained 
elevated. For example, U.S. and certain non-U.S. 
governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal 
actions against, or have sought and obtained criminal guilty 
pleas or deferred prosecution agreements from, financial 
institutions and individual employees. These types of actions 
by U.S. and other governments may, in the future, have 
significant collateral consequences for Citi, including loss of 
customers and business, operational loss, and the inability to 
offer certain products or services and/or operate certain 
businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to 
similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, 
substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial 
costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters 
or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could 
materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business 
practices, financial condition or results of operations, require 
material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi substantial 
reputational harm. 

Additionally, many large claims—both private civil and 
regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to 
develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The 
outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate 
until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes 
accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to 
accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, 
these accruals involve significant judgment and may be 
subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss 
ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be 
substantially higher than the amounts accrued (see the 
incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor above). In 
addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and 
may not be approved. For further information on Citi’s legal 
and regulatory proceedings, see Note 30.

61

OTHER RISKS

Citi’s Emerging Markets Presence Subjects It to Various 
Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks 
and Costs.
During 2023, emerging markets revenues accounted for 
approximately 40% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally 
defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia 
(other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), and central 
and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa). Citi’s 
presence in the emerging markets subjects it to various risks. 
Emerging market risks include, among others, limitations 

or unavailability of hedges on foreign investments; foreign 
currency volatility, including devaluations and strength in the 
U.S. dollar; sustained elevated interest rates and quantitative 
tightening; elevated inflation and hyperinflation; foreign 
exchange controls, including an inability to access indirect 
foreign exchange mechanisms; macroeconomic, geopolitical 
and domestic political challenges, uncertainties and volatility, 
including with respect to Russia (see the macroeconomic and 
geopolitical risk factor above and “Managing Global Risk—
Other Risks—Country Risk—Russia” and “—Ukraine” 
below); cyberattacks; restrictions arising from retaliatory laws 
and regulations; sanctions or asset freezes; sovereign debt 
volatility; fluctuations in commodity prices; election 
outcomes; regulatory changes, including potential conflicts 
among regulations with other jurisdictions where Citi does 
business; limitations on foreign investment; sociopolitical 
instability; civil unrest; crime, corruption and fraud; 
nationalization or loss of licenses; potential criminal charges; 
closure of branches or subsidiaries; and confiscation of assets; 
and these risks can be exacerbated in the event of a 
deterioration in the relationship between the U.S. and an 
emerging market country. 

For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, 

or have had in the past, strict capital controls, currency 
controls and/or sanctions, such as Argentina and Russia, that 
limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/
or transfer funds outside of those countries. For instance, Citi 
may need to record additional translation losses due to 
currency controls in Argentina (see “Managing Global Risk—
Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” below). Moreover, 
Citi may need to record additional reserves for expected losses 
for its credit exposures based on the transfer risk associated 
with exposures outside the U.S., driven by safety and 
soundness considerations under U.S. banking law (see 
“Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—
Argentina” and “—Russia” and “Significant Accounting
Policies and Significant Estimates” below). 

In addition, political turmoil and instability; geopolitical 
challenges, tensions and conflicts (including those related to 
Russia’s war in Ukraine as well as a persistent and/or 
escalating conflict in the Middle East); terrorism; and other 
instabilities have occurred in various regions and emerging 
market countries across the globe, which impact Citi’s 
businesses, results of operations and financial conditions in 
affected countries and have required, and may continue to 
require, management time and attention and other resources, 
such as managing the impact of sanctions and their effect on 
Citi’s operations in certain emerging market countries. For 

additional information, see the macroeconomic challenges and 
uncertainties risk factor above.

CLIMATE CHANGE AND NET ZERO

Introduction 
This section summarizes Citi’s Operational Footprint goals 
and Net Zero commitment.

 Citi’s annual ESG Report provides information on a 
broad set of ESG-related efforts. The upcoming Citi Climate 
Report, formerly named the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report, provides information 
on Citi’s continued progress to manage climate risk and its Net 
Zero plan, including information on financed emissions and 
2030 interim emissions reduction targets. 

For information regarding Citi’s management of climate 
risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Climate 
Risk” below. 

ESG and Climate-Related Governance
Citi’s Board of Directors (Board) provides oversight of Citi’s 
management activities (see “Managing Global Risk—Risk 
Governance” below). 

•

•

•

The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs 
Committee of the Board provides oversight and receives 
updates on Citi’s environmental and social policies and 
commitments.
The Risk Management Committee of the Board provides 
oversight of Citi’s Risk Management Framework and risk 
culture and reviews Citi’s key risk policies and 
frameworks, including receiving climate risk-related 
updates.
The Audit Committee of the Board provides oversight of 
controls and procedures pertaining to the ESG-related 
metrics and related disclosures in Citi’s SEC filed reports 
and group-level voluntary ESG reporting, as well as 
management’s evaluation of the effectiveness of Citi’s 
disclosure controls and procedures for group-level ESG 
reporting.

Additionally, Citi’s ESG Council consists of senior 
members of the management team and certain subject matter 
experts who provide oversight of Citi’s ESG goals and 
activities.

Sustainable Finance
Citi’s Sustainable Finance Goal, as previously disclosed, 
supports a combination of environmental and social finance 
activities. Delivering on the sustainable finance goal is an 
integrated effort across the organization with products and 
service offerings across multiple lines of business. 

Net Zero Emissions by 2050
As previously disclosed, Citi has committed to achieving net 
zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with its 
financing by 2050, and net zero GHG emissions for its own 
operations by 2030; both are significant targets given the size 
and breadth of Citi’s lending portfolios, businesses and 
operational footprint.

Citi’s Net Zero plan includes:

•

•

•

•

•

•

Net Zero Metrics and Target Setting: Calculate metrics 
and assess targets for carbon-intensive sectors
Client Engagement and Assessment: Seek to understand 
client GHG emissions and transition plans and advise on 
capacity building
Risk Management: Assess climate risk exposure across 
Citi’s lending portfolios and review client carbon 
reduction progress, with ongoing review and refining of 
Citi’s risk appetite and thresholds and policies related to 
Climate Risk Management
Clean Technology and Transition Finance: Support 
existing and, where possible, new technologies to 
accelerate commercialization and provide transition 
advisory and finance products and services
Portfolio Management: Active portfolio management of 
Citi financings to align with net zero targets, including 
considerations of transition measures taken by clients
Public Policy and Regulatory Engagement: Contribute to 
an enabling public policy and regulatory environment 
which is essential to stimulating demand for clean 
technologies and helping ensure a responsible transition

Progress on Citi’s Net Zero plan:

•

•

Citi has published interim 2030 emissions targets for six 
loan portfolios: auto manufacturing, commercial real 
estate (North America), energy, power, steel and thermal 
coal mining. 
Citi has developed a client transition assessment process 
to help internal teams better understand the alignment of 
clients’ strategies with transition or decarbonization 
pathways applicable to their respective sectors. In 2022–
2023, Citi completed the initial assessment process for 
energy and power clients, and in 2023 began the transition 
assessment process for auto manufacturing and steel 
clients. The assessment process focuses on clients with 
material emissions relative to each sector’s baseline 
emission profiles.

Operational Footprint Goals
Citi measures progress against operational footprint goals, 
which include efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its 
facilities through reductions in emissions, energy, water 
consumption and waste generation. Citi’s efforts to integrate 
sustainable practices include sustainable building 
certifications, renewable electricity sourcing, employee 
engagement and seeking opportunities for efficiency in 
business travel. In 2023, Citi made progress toward these 
goals by increasing on-site solar generation, promoting 
initiatives on waste diversion and recycling, mapping weather-

62

  
 
