OVERVIEW

Citigroup’s history dates back to the founding of the City 
Bank of New York in 1812. 

Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding 

company whose businesses provide consumers, corporations, 
governments and institutions with a broad, yet focused, range 
of financial products and services, including consumer 
banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, 
securities brokerage, trade and securities services and wealth 
management. Citi does business in nearly 160 countries and 
jurisdictions.

Citi’s vision is to be the preeminent banking partner for 

institutions with cross-border needs, a global leader in wealth 
management and a valued personal bank in the U.S.

At December 31, 2023, Citi had approximately 239,000 
full-time employees, largely unchanged from December 31, 
2022. For additional information, see “Human Capital 
Resources and Management” below.

Throughout this report, “Citigroup,” “Citi” and “the 

Company” refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated 
subsidiaries. For a list of certain terms and acronyms used 
herein, see “Glossary of Terms and Acronyms” at the end of 
this report. All “Note” references correspond to the Notes to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional Information
Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi’s 
website at www.citigroup.com. Citigroup’s annual reports on 
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on 
Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as other filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are 
available free of charge through Citi’s website by clicking on 
“SEC Filings” under the “Investors” tab. The SEC’s website 
also contains these filings and other information regarding Citi 
at www.sec.gov. 

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior 
periods’ financial statements and disclosures to conform to the 
current period’s presentation, including reclassifications to 
reflect Citi’s new financial reporting structure, effective as of 
the fourth quarter of 2023, for all periods presented. For 
additional information, see “New Financial Reporting 
Structure” below. 

Please see “Risk Factors” below for a discussion of 

material risks and uncertainties that could impact 
Citigroup’s businesses, results of operations and financial 
condition.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Citi prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and also 
presents certain non-GAAP financial measures (non-GAAP 
measures) that exclude certain items or otherwise include 
components that differ from the most directly comparable 
measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Citi 
believes the presentation of these non-GAAP measures 

4

provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying 
fundamentals of period-to-period operating results for 
investors, industry analysts and others, including increased 
transparency and clarity into Citi’s results, and improved 
visibility into management decisions and their impacts on 
operational performance; enables better comparison to peer 
companies; and allows Citi to provide a long-term strategic 
view of its businesses and results going forward. These non-
GAAP measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP 
financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the 
same way as non-GAAP measures with similar names used by 
other companies. 

Citi’s non-GAAP financial measures in this Form 10-K 

include:

•

Earnings per share (EPS), revenues and expenses 
excluding applicable notable items and divestiture-related 
impacts

•  Expenses excluding the Federal Deposit Insurance 

Corporation (FDIC) special assessment and restructuring 
charges
All Other (managed basis), which excludes divestiture-
related impacts
Tangible common equity (TCE), return on tangible 
common equity (RoTCE) and tangible book value per 
share (TBVPS)
Banking and Corporate Lending revenues excluding gain 
(loss) on loan hedges
Services revenues excluding the impact of the Argentine 
peso devaluations 
Non-Markets net interest income

•

•

•

•

•

For more information on the notable items, including the 

FDIC special assessment and restructuring charges, see 
“Executive Summary” below.

Citi’s results excluding divestiture-related impacts 
represent as reported, or GAAP, financial results adjusted for 
items that are incurred and recognized, which are wholly and 
necessarily a consequence of actions taken to sell (including 
through a public offering), dispose of or wind down business 
activities associated with Citi’s previously announced exit 
markets within All Other—Legacy Franchises. Citi’s Chief 
Executive Officer, its chief operating decision maker, 
regularly reviews financial information for All Other on a 
managed basis that excludes these divestiture-related impacts. 
For more information on Citi’s results excluding divestiture-
related impacts, see “Executive Summary” and “All Other—
Divestiture-Related Impacts (Reconciling Items)” below.

For more information on TCE, RoTCE and TBVPS, see 
“Capital Resources—Tangible Common Equity, Book Value 
Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Return on 
Equity” below. 

For more information on Banking and Corporate Lending 

revenues excluding gains (losses) on loan hedges, see 
“Executive Summary” and “Banking” below.

For more information on Services revenues excluding the

impact of the Argentine peso devaluations, see “Executive
Summary” and “Services” below.

For more information on non-Markets net interest income, 

see “Market Risk—Non-Markets Net Interest Income” below.

Effective as of the fourth quarter of 2023, Citigroup was managed pursuant to five operating segments: Services, Markets, Banking, 
U.S. Personal Banking and Wealth. Activities not assigned to the operating segments are included in All Other.

 Note: Mexico is included in International. 

5

 
