 

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

Risk Factors 

For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results and strategic objectives, see &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; preceding &#8220;Business&#8221; and &#8220;Return on Tangible Common Equity Targets&#8221; under &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic and related voluntary and government-imposed social and business restrictions has impacted global economic conditions, resulting in volatility in the global financial markets, increased unemployment, and operational challenges such as the temporary and permanent closures of businesses, sheltering-in-place directives and increased remote work protocols. 

Governments around the world have been working to develop, manufacture, and distribute COVID-19 vaccines and the United States has authorized the targeted distribution of certain COVID-19 vaccines, though it is unclear what the scope and timing of a more comprehensive distribution will be. Moreover, governments and central banks around the world have reacted to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic by implementing stimulus and liquidity programs and cutting interest rates, though it is unclear whether these or future actions will be successful in countering the economic disruption. If the pandemic continues to be prolonged or the actions of governments and central banks are unsuccessful, including actions to facilitate the comprehensive distribution of effective vaccines, the adverse impact on the global economy will deepen, and our results of operations and financial condition in future quarters may be adversely affected. 

Should global market conditions worsen, or the pandemic lead to additional market disruptions, we could experience reduced client activity and demand for our products and services, higher credit and valuation losses in our loan and commitment and investment portfolios, impairments of other financial assets and other negative impacts on our financial position, including possible constraints on capital and liquidity, as well as a higher cost of capital, and possible changes or downgrades to our credit ratings. In addition, continued low interest rates will limit interest margins in our lending businesses across Wealth Management and Institutional Securities. A slowdown of commercial activity could cause overall sales and trading and investment banking revenues to decline and a decline in assets under management and client balances could also reduce fee and financing revenues across all of our business segments. 

Operationally, we have initiated a work remotely protocol and restricted business travel of our workforce, with a return-to-workplace program, which is based on role, location and employee willingness and ability to return. While we have not 

experienced a decrease in productivity as a result of the remote work environment, there can be no assurance that the transition will not have an adverse effect in the long term. If significant portions of our workforce, including key personnel, are unable to work effectively because of illness, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic, the impact of the pandemic on our businesses could be exacerbated. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic, and the related global economic crisis, affects our businesses, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios and our ability to take capital actions, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and any recovery period, the development, distribution, and acceptance of effective vaccines, future actions taken by governmental authorities, central banks and other third parties in response to the pandemic, and the effects on our customers, counterparties, employees and third-party service providers. Moreover, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten many of the other risks described throughout this section. See also "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Capital Action Supervisory Restrictions.&#8221; 

Market Risk 

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio owned by us. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Market Risk.&#8221; 

Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors, including changes in asset values. 

Our results of operations have been in the past and may, in the future, be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global financial markets, economic conditions, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or other widespread events such as natural disasters, climate-related incidents or acts of war, changes to global trade policies and tariffs and other factors, including the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, the level and term structure of interest rates, inflation and currency values, and the level of other market indices. 

The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial market fluctuations due to a variety of factors that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 12 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

business flows and activity and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. 

Periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions may have adverse impacts on the level of individual investor participation in the global markets and/or the level of client assets, and, in very low interest rate environments, the level of net interest income, which would negatively impact the results of our Wealth Management business segment. 

Substantial market fluctuations could also cause variations in the value of our investments in our funds, the flow of investment capital into or from AUM, and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Investment Management business segment. 

The value of our financial instruments may be materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets may make it extremely difficult to value and monetize certain of our financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these instruments and may adversely impact historical or prospective fees and performance-based fees (also known as incentive fees, which include carried interest) in respect of certain businesses. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these financial instruments, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our financial instruments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. 

In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. 

Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses. 

Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, underwriting, including block trading, and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements, or when market conditions are more favorable for our competitors. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. For further information regarding our country risk exposure, see also &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Country and Other Risks.&#8221; 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to us. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Credit Risk.&#8221; 

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations. 

We incur significant credit risk exposure through our Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including, but not limited to: extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral and other commitments to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans. 

We also incur credit risk in our Wealth Management business segment lending to mainly individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin- and securities-based loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and HELOCs. 

Our valuations related to, and reserves for losses on, credit exposures rely on complex models, estimates, and subjective judgments about the future. While we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, future economic conditions that differ from or are more severe than forecast, inaccurate models or assumptions, or external factors such as natural disasters or the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, could lead to inaccurate measurement of or deterioration of credit quality of our 

##TABLE_START 13 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

borrowers and counterparties or the value of collateral and result in unexpected losses. We may also incur higher than anticipated credit losses in periods of market illiquidity or as a result of disputes with counterparties over the valuation of collateral during periods of economic stress. In addition, in the longer term, climate change may also have a negative impact on the financial condition of our clients, which may decrease revenues from those clients and increase the credit risk associated with loans and other credit exposures to those clients. 

Certain of our credit exposures are concentrated by product, industry or country. Although our models and estimates account for correlations among related types of exposures, a change in the market environment for a concentrated product or an external factor impacting a concentrated industry or country may result in credit losses in excess of amounts forecast. Concentrations of credit risk are managed through the Firm&#8217;s comprehensive and global Credit Limits Framework. 

In addition, as a clearing member of several central counterparties, we are responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers and could incur financial losses in the event of default by other clearing members. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. 

A default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets. 

The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. Increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges as required by provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as systemic risk and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks and securities firms, with which we interact on a daily basis and, therefore, could adversely affect us. See also &#8220;Systemic Risk Regime&#8221; under &#8220;Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation&#8212;Financial Holding Company.&#8221; 

Operational Risk 

Operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, from human factors or from external events ( e.g. , fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks, cyber attacks, damage to physical assets or the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic). We may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities ( e.g. , sales and trading) and support and control groups ( e.g. , 

information technology and trade processing). Legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under &#8220;Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk.&#8221; For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Operational Risk.&#8221; 

We are subject to operational risks, including a failure, breach or other disruption of our operations or security systems or those of our third parties (or third parties thereof), as well as human error or malfeasance, which could adversely affect our businesses or reputation. 

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. We may introduce new products or services or change processes or reporting, including in connection with new regulatory requirements, resulting in new operational risk that we may not fully appreciate or identify. 

The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets and the move to more automated trading platforms has resulted in the use of increasingly complex technology that relies on the continued effectiveness of the programming code and integrity of the data to process the trades. We rely on the ability of our employees, consultants, our internal systems and systems at technology centers maintained by unaffiliated third parties to operate our different businesses and process a high volume of transactions. Unusually high trading volumes or site usage could cause our systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Disruptions to, destruction of, instability of or other failure to effectively maintain our information technology systems or external technology that allows our clients and customers to use our products and services (including our self-directed brokerage platform) could harm our business and our reputation. Additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing cybersecurity, privacy and data protection, which may differ and potentially conflict, in various jurisdictions. 

As a major participant in the global capital markets, we face the risk of incorrect valuation or risk management of our trading positions due to flaws in data, models, electronic trading systems or processes or due to fraud or cyber attack. 

We also face the risk of operational failure or disruption of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our lending, securities and derivatives transactions. In addition, in the event of a breakdown or improper operation or disposal of our or a direct or indirect third party&#8217;s systems (or third parties thereof), processes or information assets, or improper or unauthorized action by third parties, including consultants and subcontractors or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity position, a disruption of 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 14 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. 

In addition, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased importance of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. Furthermore, the concentration of company and personal information held by a handful of third parties increases the risk that a breach at a key third party may cause an industry-wide data breach that could significantly increase the cost and risk of conducting business. 

There can be no assurance that our business contingency and security response plans fully mitigate all potential risks to us. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the New York and Atlanta metropolitan areas, London, Hong Kong and Tokyo, as well as Baltimore, Glasgow, Frankfurt, Bangalore, Budapest and Mumbai. This may include a disruption involving physical site access; software flaws and vulnerabilities; cybersecurity incidents; terrorist activities; political unrest; other disease pandemics; catastrophic events; climate-related incidents and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and wildfires); electrical outage; environmental hazard; computer servers; communications or other services we use; our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. 

Although we employ backup systems for our data, those backup systems may be unavailable following a disruption, the affected data may not have been backed up or may not be recoverable from the backup, or the backup data may be costly to recover, which could adversely affect our business. 

Notwithstanding evolving technology and technology-based risk and control systems, our businesses ultimately rely on people, including our employees and those of third parties with which we conduct business. As a result of human error or engagement in violations of applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures, certain errors or violations are not always discovered immediately by our technological processes or by our controls and other procedures, which are intended to prevent and detect such errors or violations. These can include calculation errors, mistakes in addressing emails or other communications, errors in software or model development or implementation, or errors in judgment, as well as intentional efforts to disregard or circumvent applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures. Human errors and malfeasance, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in material losses and liabilities for us. 

We conduct business in various jurisdictions outside the U.S., including jurisdictions that may not have comparable levels of protection for their corporate assets such as intellectual property, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and customer 

information and records. The protection afforded in those jurisdictions may be less established and/or predictable than in the U.S. or other jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result, there may also be heightened risks associated with the potential theft of their data, technology and intellectual property in those jurisdictions by domestic or foreign actors, including private parties and those affiliated with or controlled by state actors. Any theft of data, technology or intellectual property may negatively impact our operations and reputation, including disrupting the business activities of our subsidiaries, affiliates, joint ventures or clients conducting business in those jurisdictions. 

A cyber attack, information or security breach or a technology failure could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, manage our exposure to risk or result in disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause reputational harm. 

We maintain a significant amount of personal information on our customers, clients, employees and certain counterparties that we are required to protect under various state, federal and international data protection and privacy laws. These laws may be in conflict with one another, or courts and regulators may interpret them in ways that we had not anticipated or that adversely affect our business. 

Cybersecurity risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet, mobile telecommunications and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. In addition to the growing sophistication of certain parties, the commoditization of cyber tools which are able to be weaponized by less sophisticated actors has led to an increase in the exploitation of technological vulnerabilities. Global events and geopolitical instability may lead to increased nation state targeting of financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad. Foreign state actors have become more sophisticated over time, increasing the risk of such an attack. Any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, clients, vendors or other third parties or users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our employees or clients. 

Cybersecurity risks may also derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, including third party providers, or may result from accidental technological failure. These risks may be heightened by several factors including, for example, the COVID-19 pandemic, which has caused the majority of our employees to work remotely and access our secure networks through their home networks, or as a result of the integration of acquisitions and other strategic initiatives that may subject us to new 

##TABLE_START 15 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

technology, customers or third party providers. In addition, third parties with whom we do business, the regulators with whom we share information, and each of their service providers, as well as the third parties with whom our customers and clients share information used for authentication, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond our security and control systems. There is no guarantee that the measures we take will provide absolute security or recoverability given the techniques used in cyber attacks are complex and frequently change, and may not be able to be anticipated. 

Like other financial services firms, the Firm, its third party providers, and its clients continue to be the subject of unauthorized access attacks, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, denial of service attacks, data breaches, social engineering attacks and other events. There can be no assurance that such unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. 

A cyber attack, information or security breach or a technology failure of ours or of a third party could jeopardize our or our clients&#8217;, employees&#8217;, partners&#8217;, vendors&#8217; or counterparties&#8217; personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our third parties&#8217; computer systems. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients&#8217;, employees&#8217;, partners&#8217;, vendors&#8217;, counterparties&#8217; or third parties&#8217; operations, as well as the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of ours, our employees, our customers or of other third parties. Any of these events could result in reputational damage with our clients and the market, client dissatisfaction, additional costs to us to maintain and update our operational and security systems and infrastructure, regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or regulatory fines or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Given our global footprint and the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners, vendors and counterparties with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack, information or security breach could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. We expect that any investigation of a cyber attack would be inherently unpredictable and that it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and 

remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. 

While many of our agreements with partners and third party vendors include indemnification provisions, we may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses we may incur. In addition, although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber and information security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. 

We continue to make investments with a view toward maintaining and enhancing our cybersecurity posture. The cost of managing cyber and information security risks and attacks along with complying with new, increasingly expansive, and evolving regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and business. 

Liquidity Risk 

Liquidity risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity risk also encompasses our ability (or perceived ability) to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern as well as the associated funding risks triggered by the market or idiosyncratic stress events that may negatively affect our liquidity and may impact our ability to raise new funding. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity risk, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; and &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Liquidity Risk.&#8221; 

Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. 

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets, our inability to access the secured lending markets, or unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral by customers or clients. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding fiscal matters in the U.S. and other geographic areas, could impair our ability to raise funding. 

In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as an incurrence of large trading losses, a downgrade by the rating agencies, a decline in the level of our business activity, if regulatory authorities take significant action against us or 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 16 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

our industry, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. 

If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment portfolios or trading assets, to meet maturing liabilities or other obligations. We may be unable to sell some of our assets or we may have to sell assets at a discount to market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend on our credit ratings. 

The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our long-term and short-term credit ratings. The rating agencies continue to monitor certain company-specific and industry-wide factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings. These include governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity and funding, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, business mix, regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. 

Our credit ratings also can have an adverse impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC and other derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with our Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. 

Termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. The additional collateral or termination payments which may occur in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody&#8217;s Investors Service, Inc. and S&#38;P Global Ratings. See also &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Credit Ratings&#8212;Incremental Collateral or Terminating Payments.&#8221; 

We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. 

The Parent Company has no operations and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. 

Regulatory restrictions, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that limit, as well as authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce, the flow of funds to the Parent Company, or that prohibit such transfers or dividends altogether in certain circumstances, including steps to &#8220;ring fence&#8221; entities by regulators outside of the U.S. to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such entities. 

These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a BHC, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. 

Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions. 

Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economies. 

In particular, our cost and availability of funding in the past have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Significant turbulence in the U.S., the E.U. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. 

Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk 

Legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation we may suffer as a result of our failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. This risk also includes contractual and commercial risk, such as the risk that a counterparty&#8217;s performance obligations will be unenforceable. It also includes compliance with AML, anti-corruption and terrorist financing rules and regulations. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Legal and Compliance Risk.&#8221; 

##TABLE_START 17 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, and changes in regulation will impact our business. 

Like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments. 

The Firm and its employees are subject to (among other things) wide-ranging regulation and supervision, intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, limitations on new activities, a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity and funding requirements and other enhanced prudential standards, resolution regimes and resolution planning requirements, requirements for maintaining minimum amounts of TLAC and external long-term debt, restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the Volcker Rule, comprehensive derivatives regulation, commodities regulation, market structure regulation, tax regulations, antitrust laws, trade and transaction reporting obligations, and broadened fiduciary obligations. 

In some areas, regulatory standards are subject to further rulemaking or transition periods or may otherwise be revised in whole or in part. Ongoing implementation of, or changes in, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of, laws and regulations could materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. 

In addition, regulatory requirements that are being imposed by foreign policymakers and regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations that we are subject to in the U.S. and may adversely affect us. Legal and regulatory requirements continue to be subject to ongoing change, which may result in significant new costs to comply with new or revised requirements as well as to monitor for compliance on an ongoing basis. 

The application of regulatory requirements and strategies in the U.S. or other jurisdictions to facilitate the orderly resolution of large financial institutions may pose a greater risk of loss for our security holders, and subject us to other restrictions. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the 

event of material financial distress or failure. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to jointly determine that our resolution plan submission was not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution, and if we were unable to address any deficiencies identified by the regulators, we or any of our subsidiaries may be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations, or after a two-year period, we may be required to divest assets or operations. 

In addition, provided that certain procedures are met, we can be subject to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver. The FDIC&#8217;s power under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the priority of creditor claims and treat similarly situated creditors differently in certain circumstances, subject to certain limitations, could adversely impact holders of our unsecured debt. See &#8220;Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; and &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212; Regulatory Requirements.&#8221; 

Further, because both our resolution plan contemplates an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the FDIC has proposed an SPOE strategy through which it may apply its orderly liquidation authority powers, we believe that the application of an SPOE strategy is the reasonably likely outcome if either our resolution plan were implemented or a resolution proceeding were commenced under the orderly liquidation authority. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of adequate capital and liquidity by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy, and the Parent Company has entered into a secured amended and restated support agreement with its material entities, as defined in our resolution plan, pursuant to which it would provide such capital and liquidity to such entities. 

In further development of our SPOE strategy, we have created a wholly owned, direct subsidiary of the Parent Company, Morgan Stanley Holdings LLC (&#8220;Funding IHC&#8221;), to serve as a resolution funding vehicle. The Parent Company has transferred, and has agreed to transfer on an ongoing basis, certain assets to the Funding IHC. In the event of a resolution scenario, the Parent Company would be obligated to contribute all of its material assets that can be contributed under the terms of the amended and restated support agreement (other than shares in subsidiaries of the Parent Company and certain other assets) (&#8220;Contributable Assets&#8221;), to the Funding IHC. The Funding IHC would be obligated to provide capital and liquidity, as applicable, to our material entities. 

The obligations of the Parent Company and the Funding IHC under the amended and restated support agreement are in most cases secured on a senior basis by the assets of the Parent Company (other than shares in subsidiaries of the 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 18 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

Parent Company and certain other assets), and the assets of the Funding IHC. As a result, claims of our material entities, including the Funding IHC, against the assets of the Parent Company with respect to such secured assets are effectively senior to unsecured obligations of the Parent Company. 

Although an SPOE strategy, whether applied pursuant to our resolution plan or in a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority, is intended to result in better outcomes for creditors overall, there is no guarantee that the application of an SPOE strategy, including the provision of support to the Parent Company&#8217;s material entities pursuant to the secured amended and restated support agreement, will not result in greater losses for holders of our securities compared to a different resolution strategy for us. 

Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation authority and other resolution regimes. For example, the Federal Reserve requires top-tier BHCs of U.S. G-SIBs, including the Firm, to maintain minimum amounts of equity and eligible long-term debt TLAC in order to ensure that such institutions have enough loss-absorbing resources at the point of failure to be recapitalized through the conversion of debt to equity or otherwise by imposing losses on eligible TLAC where the SPOE strategy is used. The combined implication of the SPOE resolution strategy and the TLAC requirement is that our losses will be imposed on the holders of eligible long-term debt and other forms of eligible TLAC issued by the Parent Company before any losses are imposed on the creditors of our material entities or before putting U.S. taxpayers at risk. 

In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and other E.U. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity. Such &#8220;bail-in&#8221; powers are intended to enable the recapitalization of a failing institution by allocating losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors. Non-U.S. regulators are also considering requirements that certain subsidiaries of large financial institutions maintain minimum amounts of TLAC that would pass losses up from the subsidiaries to the Parent Company and, ultimately, to security holders of the Parent Company in the event of failure. 

We may be prevented from paying dividends or taking other capital actions because of regulatory constraints or revised regulatory capital standards. 

We are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, including with respect to regulatory capital standards, stress testing and capital planning. We submit, on at least an annual basis, a capital plan to the Federal Reserve describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders, proposed repurchases of our outstanding securities and other proposed capital actions 

that we intend to take. Our ability to take capital actions described in the capital plan is dependent on, among other factors, the results of supervisory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve and our compliance with regulatory capital standards imposed by the Federal Reserve. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve may change regulatory capital standards to impose higher requirements that restrict our ability to take capital actions or may modify or impose other regulatory standards or restrictions that increase our operating expenses or constrain our ability to take capital actions. For example, on June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that it would bar share repurchases and limit common stock dividend payments in the third quarter of 2020 for all large BHCs, and on September 30, 2020, the restrictions were extended through the fourth quarter of 2020. On December 18, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that it was extending capital action supervisory restrictions applicable to all large BHCs into the first quarter of 2021 with modifications to permit resumptions of share repurchases. The Federal Reserve may extend or further modify these restrictions in future periods or impose new restrictions. For additional information, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212; Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; herein. 

The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to extensive regulatory and law enforcement investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability. 

As a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. Investigations and proceedings initiated by these authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. 

These investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, continue to impact the financial services industry and certain U.S. and international governmental entities have brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions, pleas or deferred prosecution agreements from, financial institutions. Significant regulatory or law enforcement action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the SEC or CFTC with information related to securities or commodities law violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. As a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the SEC or CFTC. 

##TABLE_START 19 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. 

In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress. In other cases, including antitrust litigation, we may be subject to claims for joint and several liability with other defendants for treble damages or other relief related to alleged conspiracies involving other institutions. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information, or improper sales practices or conduct. 

We may be responsible for representations and warranties associated with residential and commercial real estate loans and may incur losses in excess of our reserves. 

We originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and CMBS. In connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. We have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in CMBS. For additional information, see also Note 15 to the financial statements. 

We currently have several legal proceedings related to claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties. If there are decisions adverse to us in those legal proceedings, we may incur losses substantially in excess of our reserves. In addition, our reserves are based, in part, on certain factual and legal assumptions. If those assumptions are incorrect and need to be revised, we may need to adjust our reserves substantially. 

A failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. 

As a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us 

and a client, among clients, between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other, or situations in which we may be a creditor of a client. Moreover, we also utilize multiple brands and business channels, including those resulting from our acquisitions, and continue to enhance the collaboration across business segments, which may heighten the potential conflicts of interests or the risk of improper sharing of information. 

We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address potential conflicts of interest, and we utilize various measures, such as the use of disclosure, to manage these potential conflicts. However, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. 

Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. For example, our status as a BHC supervised by the Federal Reserve subjects us to direct Federal Reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates. Further, the Volcker Rule subjects us to regulatory scrutiny regarding certain transactions between us and our clients. 

Risk Management 

Our risk management strategies, models and processes may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk, which could result in unexpected losses. 

We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management capabilities and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies, models and processes, including our use of various risk models for assessing market exposures and hedging strategies, stress testing and other analysis, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. 

As our businesses change and grow, and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies, models and processes may not always adapt with those changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management&#8217;s judgment. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 20 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

In addition, many models we use are based on assumptions or inputs regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators and therefore cannot anticipate sudden, unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements, such as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could cause us to incur losses. 

Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, model, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. 

While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. For example, to the extent that our trading or investing activities involve less liquid trading markets or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sales or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading or investing activities. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks and related strategies, models and processes, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Market Risk.&#8221; 

Planned replacement of London Interbank Offered Rate and replacement or reform of other interest rate benchmarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Central banks around the world, including the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and official sector representatives to replace LIBOR and replace or reform other interest rate benchmarks (collectively, the &#8220;IBORs&#8221;). A transition away from the widespread use of such rates to alternative rates and other potential interest rate benchmark reforms has begun and will continue over the course of the next few years. There remains a likelihood that most IBORs will not be available beyond 2021, and regulators globally have continued to emphasize the need for the industry to plan accordingly. 

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York now publishes the Secured Overnight Financing Rate based on overnight U.S. Treasury repurchase agreement transactions, which has been recommended as the alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee convened by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Further, the Bank of England publishes a reformed Sterling Overnight Index Average, comprised of a broader set of overnight Sterling money market transactions, which has been selected by the Working Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates as the alternative rate to Sterling LIBOR. 

Central bank-sponsored committees in other jurisdictions, including Europe, Japan and Switzerland, have selected alternative reference rates denominated in other currencies. 

The market transition away from IBORs to alternative reference rates is complex and could have a range of adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, such transition or reform could: 

&#8226; Adversely impact the pricing, liquidity, value of, return on and trading for a broad array of financial products, including any IBOR-linked securities, loans and derivatives that are included in our financial assets and liabilities; 

&#8226; Require extensive changes to documentation that governs or references IBOR or IBOR-based products, including, for example, pursuant to time-consuming renegotiations of existing documentation to modify the terms of outstanding securities and related hedging transactions; 

&#8226; Result in a population of products with documentation that governs or references IBOR or IBOR-based products but that cannot be amended due to an inability to obtain sufficient consent from counterparties or product owners; 

&#8226; Result in inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of our (or the market&#8217;s) preparation and readiness for the replacement of an IBOR with one or more alternative reference rates; 

&#8226; Result in disputes, litigation or other actions with clients, counterparties and investors, in various scenarios, such as regarding the interpretation and enforceability of provisions in IBOR-based products such as fallback language or other related provisions, including in the case of fallbacks to the alternative reference rates, any economic, legal, operational or other impact resulting from the fundamental differences between the IBORs and the various alternative reference rates; 

&#8226; Require the transition and/or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition our risk management processes from IBORs to those based on one or more alternative reference rates in a timely manner, including by quantifying value and risk for various alternative reference rates, which may prove challenging given the limited history of the proposed alternative reference rates; and 

&#8226; Cause us to incur additional costs in relation to any of the above factors. 

Other factors include the pace of the transition to the alternative reference rates, timing mismatches between cash and derivative markets, the specific terms and parameters for and market acceptance of any alternative reference rate, market conventions for the use of any alternative reference rate in connection with a particular product (including the timing and market adoption of any conventions proposed or recommended by any industry or other group), prices of and the liquidity of trading markets for products based on alternative reference rates, and our ability to transition and develop appropriate systems and analytics for one or more alternative reference rates. 

##TABLE_START 21 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Regulatory Requirements" herein. 

Competitive Environment 

We face strong competition from financial services firms and others, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 

The financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, exchanges, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, fund managers, energy companies, financial technology firms and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and digitally or through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, technology, reputation, risk appetite and price. 

Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms, or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. 

We have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices, eliminating commissions or other fees, or providing more favorable terms of business. In addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and, in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Some new competitors in the financial technology sector have sought to target existing segments of our businesses that could be susceptible to disruption by innovative or less regulated business models. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Competition&#8221; and &#8220;Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation.&#8221; 

Automated trading markets and the introduction and application of new technologies may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. 

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities, derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically on exchanges, swap execution facilities, other automated trading platforms and the introduction and application of new technologies has increased the pressure on bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or comparable fees. 

The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. We have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing or eliminating bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or fees. 

Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. 

Our people are our most important asset and competition for qualified employees is intense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at levels or in forms necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position and results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. 

The financial industry has experienced and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. 

International Risk 

We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. 

We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies, and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. 

Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases. 

Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic or financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 22 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally. 

A disease pandemic, such as COVID-19, or other widespread health emergencies, natural disasters, climate-related incidents, terrorist activities or military actions, or social or political tensions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets or in other areas of the global economy that could adversely affect our businesses, or could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage or conduct our businesses around the world. 

As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. A violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. 

The U.K.&#8217;s withdrawal from the E.U. and the resulting uncertainty regarding the future regulatory landscape could adversely affect us. 

It is difficult to predict the future of the U.K.&#8217;s relationship with the E.U., the uncertainty of which may increase the volatility in the global financial markets in the short- and medium-term and may negatively disrupt regional and global financial markets. Additionally, depending on the outcome, such uncertainty may adversely affect the manner in which we operate certain of our businesses in Europe. 

On January 31, 2020, the U.K. withdrew from the E.U. under the terms of a withdrawal agreement between the U.K. and the E.U. The withdrawal agreement provided for a transition period to the end of December 2020, during which time the U.K. would continue to apply E.U. law as if it were a member state, and U.K. firms' passporting rights to provide financial services in E.U. jurisdictions continued. 

On December 24, 2020 the U.K. and the E.U. announced they had reached agreement on the terms of a trade and co-operation agreement to govern the future relationship between the parties. The agreement consists of three main pillars including trade, citizens&#8217; security and governance, covering a variety of arrangements in several areas. The agreement is provisionally applicable with effect from January 1, 2021 pending formal ratification by the E.U. 

With respect to financial services, although the U.K. chose to grant the E.U. equivalence in a number of key areas under European financial regulations, the E.U. only made certain 

more limited equivalence decisions, leaving decisions on equivalence and adequacy to be determined by each of the U.K. and E.U. unilaterally in due course. As a result, U.K. licensed entities are unable to provide regulated services in a number of E.U. jurisdictions from the end of December 2020, absent regulatory relief or other measures implemented by individual countries. 

While we have restructured our European operations to ensure that we can continue to provide cross-border banking and investment and other services in E.U. member states, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future regulatory landscape which could impact our European operations beyond those implemented or planned, as a result of which our results of operations and business prospects could be negatively affected. See also &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Regulatory Developments.&#8221; 

Acquisition, Divestiture and Joint Venture Risk 

We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances, and certain acquisitions may subject our business to new or increased risk. 

In connection with past or future acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority stakes or strategic alliances (including with MUFG), we face numerous risks and uncertainties in combining, transferring, separating or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine or separate accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. Certain of these strategic initiatives, and integration thereof, may cause us to incur incremental expenses and may also require incremental financial, management and other resources. 

For example, our acquisition and integration of E*TRADE involves a number of risks, including failure to realize anticipated cost savings and funding synergies of the acquisition and difficulty integrating the two businesses. It is possible that the integration process could also result in unanticipated disruption to the E*TRADE self-directed brokerage platform, the loss of key Morgan Stanley or legacy E*TRADE employees, the loss of clients, or an overall integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. 

In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. 

In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture. 

##TABLE_START 23 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions, divestitures or investments will be successfully integrated or disaggregated or yield all of the positive benefits and synergies anticipated. If we are not able to integrate or disaggregate successfully our past and future acquisitions or dispositions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. 

Certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes, services, competitors, and new markets. These business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, as well as franchise and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held, or services are being delivered. 

For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also &#8220;Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation.&#8221; 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 24 

##TABLE_END

