wells_fargo_&_company_2022_Q2

Federal Inquiry Focuses on Wells Fargo's Hiring Practices
Authorities are investigating whether the bank violated federal anti-discrimination laws by conducting sham
interviews of minority candidates.                                      
Federal prosecutors in New York have opened a criminal investigation into whether Wells Fargo violated
federal laws by conducting sham interviews of minority and female job candidates, according to two people
with knowledge of the inquiry.                                          
The investigation is being conducted by members of a newly created civil rights unit inside the criminal
division of the Manhattan U.S. attorney's office, the people said. They requested anonymity because they
were not authorized to speak publicly.                                  
The investigation, which is in its early stages, was spurred by a May 19 report in The New York Times that
centered on a whistle-blower, Joe Bruno. Mr. Bruno, a former Wells Fargo employee, and others said bank
managers were interviewing job applicants whom the bank deemed ''diverse'' -- a catchall term for racial
minorities, women and members of other disadvantaged groups -- for roles that had already been promised
to other people.                                                        
These sham interviews were the result of the bank's quest to increase diversity -- a noble goal that became
twisted in practice because, some employees said, it was more about recording the bank's efforts to hire
more minorities than actually hiring them.                              
The practice was tied to Wells Fargo's ''diverse slate'' policy, which stipulated that at least half the candidates
interviewed for jobs paying $100,000 or more needed to be ''diverse.'' The rule was put in place in mid-2020.
However, the practice of conducting fake interviews existed long before then, because Wells Fargo had a
similar unwritten policy.                                               
A Wells Fargo spokeswoman declined to comment on the investigation.     
                                                                        
It is not clear what, if any, charges could result from the investigation. But it shows a new willingness by
federal authorities to pursue criminal prosecutions of civil rights violations at a time when hate crimes are on
the rise -- especially because the criminal code is seldom applied to the treatment of workers or customers by
corporations.                                                           
The civil rights unit handling the Wells Fargo inquiry was created in November by Damian Williams, the U.S.
attorney for the Southern District of New York.                         
Under federal law, for instance, it is a crime to interfere with ''an applicant for private employment'' in a way
motivated by the applicant's ''race, color, religion or national origin.''
Federal authorities typically cite civil anti-discrimination laws when bringing cases against companies for
hiring discrimination. Also, customers who find themselves mistreated because of their race rely mostly on
state anti-discrimination laws to get justice.                          
In creating the civil rights unit, Mr. Williams said federal authorities needed to reconsider how the justice
system treated issues of discrimination. Pursuing criminal cases, he said, would make efforts to get justice for
victims of discrimination ''more effective.''                           
                                                                        
At Wells Fargo, one of the nation's largest banks, with nearly 250,000 employees, sham interviews occurred
across multiple business lines, including its mortgage servicing, home lending and retail banking operations.
The Times report last month focused on the bank's wealth management business.

Since then, another 10 current and former employees have shared stories about how they were subject to
fake interviews, or conducted them, or saw paperwork documenting the practice. The people spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they feared retaliation from Wells Fargo or their current employers.
In an interview on Monday, Bei Ling, Wells Fargo's head of human resources, said she did not believe the
fake interview practice was ''a systematic issue.'' Employees had not complained about it, she said.
''During these past eight months I can tell you I have never heard such a thing from the recruiting
community,'' Ms. Ling said. ''I have never even heard the words 'fake interview.'''

She added that there was no way for the bank to understand the scope of the problem unless employees
spoke up. ''We can't act on things that we don't know,'' she said.      
In some instances, there were written records of the practice of conducting fake interviews. In late 2020, just
days after Wells Fargo offered a job to a person who counted as ''diverse'' by the bank's standards, a human
resources employee asked that person to apply for a different job at the bank, according to an email reviewed
by The Times.                                                           
The first offer was still on the table, the Wells Fargo employee explained, but the bank also wanted to show
that it had ''qualified candidates'' for both roles. ''Simply book keeping for us,'' the employee wrote in the
email.                                                                  
When asked about the human resources employee's message, Ms. Ling said: ''We're reviewing the
communications.''                                                       
                                                                        
On Monday, Wells Fargo's chief executive officer, Charles W. Scharf, announced that the bank would
temporarily pause its ''diverse slate'' rule to study its implementation and make changes to prevent more fake
interviews from being conducted.                                        
The bank had already been experimenting with ways to streamline its hiring process. In February, Wells
Fargo began a pilot program that did away with job postings and the ''diverse slate'' interview requirement in
cases where internal candidates had been identified. The goal was to make it easier for employees to move
to new roles within the bank. Until then, every job had to be posted and ''diverse'' candidates interviewed in
keeping with the policy, unless managers specifically applied for an exemption requiring approval from
high-level executives.                                                  
Ms. Ling said the pilot program had nothing to do with problems arising from the ''diverse slate'' rule.
Wells Fargo has been working its way through an organization-wide cleanup of its business practices for the
past five years. Beginning in 2016, it was publicly revealed that the bank had been opening fake accounts in
customers' names without their knowledge, charging some of them bogus fees on mortgage loans and forcing
others to buy unnecessary auto insurance. The scandals have cost the bank more than $4.5 billion in fines.
In early 2018, the Federal Reserve imposed an asset cap on Wells Fargo, restricting it from growing until
regulators were satisfied that its risk management practices and its treatment of customers had stabilized.
The bank's leadership has turned over since then, and Mr. Scharf took over in the fall of 2019. Regulators
have still not given Wells Fargo the all-clear.                         
Its woes have continued.                                                
A group of Black homeowners recently sued the bank for stalling on refinancing their home loans. The
Securities and Exchange Commission fined Wells Fargo $7 million for failing to properly follow
anti-money-laundering laws. And Rohit Chopra, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
put Wells Fargo atop a list of ''repeat offenders'' that he proposed should be stripped of their operating
licenses because they were violating too many financial regulations.    

Senator Warns Wells Fargo To Shape Up                                   
Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, the chairman of the chamber's Banking Committee, rebuked Charles W.
Scharf for the bank's continued problems.                               
The Democrat in charge of the Senate Banking Committee is not happy with Wells Fargo's chief executive,
Charles W. Scharf.                                                      
In a letter on Tuesday, the committee's chairman, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, demanded that Mr. Scharf
''once and for all address Wells Fargo's governance, risk management and hiring practices -- weaknesses
that have plagued the bank for almost a decade.''                       
Mr. Brown listed recent misbehavior by the bank, including a report by The New York Times that Wells Fargo
had conducted sham interviews of Black and female candidates, and cited claims that it had avoided
refinancing Black homeowners' mortgages while interest rates were low.  
A Wells Fargo spokeswoman declined to comment.                          
                                                                        
Mr. Brown also noted that Wells Fargo had failed to properly administer a system for alerting the authorities to
suspicious activity by its brokerage customers. The Securities and Exchange Commission said on May 20
that it was fining Wells Fargo $7 million over violations of anti-money-laundering laws, claiming the bank
failed to file more than 30 suspicious-activity reports between 2017 and 2021.
''Despite these failures, Wells Fargo made $21.5 billion in 2021 and announced a plan to double dividends
and buy back $18 billion in stock between third quarter 2021 and second quarter 2022,'' Mr. Brown wrote.
Mr. Brown noted that Mr. Scharf received $24.5 million last year in total compensation, a 20 percent increase
from 2020 and 290 times the median employee salary at the bank.         
                                                                        
Mr. Brown said he expected Mr. Scharf to prepare a plan to fix its myriad problems and ended the letter with
a reminder that the chief executive would be testifying soon along with his peers at the committee's annual
big bank oversight hearing.                                             
A date for the hearing has not yet been announced.                      

Rising Rates Hit Mortgage Lenders                                       
Mortgage lenders are scrambling to survive a sharp drop-off in the number of homeowners refinancing their
loans, with demand drying up as interest rates rise.                    
Mortgage giants including Wells Fargo & Co. and Rocket Cos. have trimmed staff this spring. Online lender
Better.com has laid off or offered buyouts to about half of its workforce since December.
While home prices continue to rise and people are still buying houses, the drop-off in refinancing activity is a
giant blow because refinancings made up the bulk of U.S. mortgage originations throughout the pandemic.
Some lenders are considering selling themselves, convinced it is the only way to make it through, according
to industry executives and advisers.                                    
                                                                        
"Many lenders are losing money and have the prospect of losing money for the foreseeable future," said
Steve Stein, a former executive at Stearns Lending, a mortgage company based in Lewisville, Texas.
"Partnering up could be a good strategic alternative."                  
Last month, Mr. Stein and former Stearns Chief Executive David Schneider launched an advisory firm to
guide what they believe will be a wave of lenders looking to stay afloat.
Some lenders are selling assets, such as their rights to collect mortgage payments. Others are trying to drum
up business by offering lower rates or cutting their fees. In March, mortgage lenders made $2.36 in profit on
every $100 of a loan, the smallest amount since 2019, according to the Urban Institute. In 2020, that figure
was as high as $5.99.                                                   
"You saw lenders panic a bit with the decline" in originations, said Richard Martin, director of real-estate
lending solutions at Curinos, a financial-services research firm.       
The mortgage market's slowdown is another consequence of the Federal Reserve's attempts to curb red-hot
inflation. The Fed has raised interest rates twice this year to try to cool the economy, and it ended its largest
mortgage-bond buying program this spring. That has pushed up borrowing costs for mortgages, drying up the
pandemic refinancing boom and even shoving some would-be home buyers out of the market.
Originations at the 50 largest lenders fell 41% in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
industry-research firm Inside Mortgage Finance. Mortgage volume is expected to fall 37% in 2022, according
to the Mortgage Bankers Association, driven by the drop in refinancings.
                                                                        
It could get worse: The housing market still looks hot by historical standards, and home prices are still rising.
But the Fed's moves have raised questions about whether the U.S. is headed toward a recession, which
would likely slow home sales and make it difficult for some homeowners to keep up with their monthly
payments. April's seasonally adjusted annual rate of home sales was the lowest since June 2020.
"It's like the music has stopped," said Jeff Taylor, a managing partner at Mphasis Digital Risk, a consulting
firm that works with mortgage lenders on technology and risk.           
The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 5.25% as of last week, according to
mortgage-finance giant Freddie Mac, up from 3.11% near the beginning of the year, an increase that can add
hundreds of dollars each month to a new buyer's borrowing costs.        
The pain is expected to be especially bad for nonbank mortgage lenders. Unlike banks, they don't have
numerous business lines to carry them through mortgage downturns. They also don't take deposits, which
means they are reliant on short-term loans. Seven of the 10 largest refinance lenders in 2021 were nonbanks,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance.                                   
                                                                        
A few nonbanks are big names, such as Rocket, which is now the biggest mortgage lender in the U.S., but
there are thousands of smaller lenders scattered throughout the country. They are often the preferred route to
homeownership for moderate-income families or first-time home buyers. Nonbanks issued about 70% of U.S.
mortgages last year, the highest share on record, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.
It is common for lenders to lay off workers when interest rates rise, like they did in 2018, and then hire again
when rates fall. However, in the run-up to 2008, mortgage companies instead lowered lending standards to
keep volume high, laying the seeds for the global financial crisis. This time around, lenders have kept their
standards for mortgage loans relatively strict.                         
"It's been decades since rates rose so quickly, so it's kind of a shock," said Tom Millon, CEO of
Computershare Loan Services, a mortgage-service provider.               
Some of the measures lenders are taking to stem the bleeding are short-term solutions. Cash from the sale of
servicing rights -- by which a company earns fees for performing the back-office job of collecting monthly
payments -- can help pad lenders' bottom line. But selling those rights also means giving up a steady stream
of income.                                                              

EXCHANGE --- Wells Settles Laundering Case by SEC                       
[Content about Wells Fargo settling laundering case would appear here]

Zelle Emerges As Rival To Cards                                         
[Content about Zelle emerging as rival would appear here]
```