goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2022_Q2

Mr. Musk trashed E.S.G. investing. The S.E.C. is investigating Goldman Sachs's move into the sector. In a
falling market, what should investors consider?                         
Any time the stock market falls, investors are likely to rethink nearly everything.
Meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Commission is frantically trying to catch up, investigating Goldman
Sachs and other big banks and questioning whether some are slapping E.S.G. labels on funds that may not
deserve them to make a grab for investor assets.                        

Apple Inc. tiptoed into finance with Apple Pay and the credit card it launched three years ago with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Now it is going all in.                                
The company is launching a buy now, pay later offering in the U.S. later this year that will allow consumers
that shop with Apple Pay to split purchases into four payments every two weeks. Apple will underwrite the
loans and fund them, which means absorbing losses when borrowers fail to repay. An Apple subsidiary has
obtained lending licenses in most states to offer the new payment plans, called Apple Pay Later.
The move marks a big change for Apple, which until a couple of years ago had little appetite to become a
lender itself. A concern at the company, including for Chief Executive Tim Cook, was the potential
reputational risk, according to people familiar with the matter. When it was ready to launch a new credit card
a few years ago, Apple tapped Goldman to approve applicants and fund the loans.
Apple is connecting to merchants through the Mastercard Inc. network. Goldman is serving as the sponsor,
essentially issuing a 16-digit card number that merchants will receive when consumers pay using the service.
"We look forward to continuing to grow our work together through another innovative product that helps
consumers lead healthy financial lives and are excited about this latest expansion of our relationship," a
Goldman spokesman said.                                                 

When Goldman Sachs -- the investment bank known for its hard-charging culture -- recently told its senior
bankers that they could take off as much time as they wanted, the policy shift immediately catapulted it into
the ranks of America's most employee-friendly companies.                
Managers should ''take the vacation they need so they can continue to run hard, be competitive, run
productively, but take care of their families,'' David M. Solomon, Goldman's chief executive, told CNBC.
But the bank's move hasn't led to much cheering at a place where employees build their careers on being
available to clients any time, anywhere. Goldman, in particular, has long prided itself on that ethos -- so much
so that its leaders rarely use all their holidays and often forgo out-of-office messages. Some have even been
known to take satellite phones on vacation.                             
Some observers have been downright cynical about Goldman's motives, calling the policy a cost-saving
move. In the past, if employees had a fixed number of vacation days that they didn't use, the bank had to pay
them for those unused days when they quit. But unlimited vacation means the bank doesn't have to pay them
anything.                                                               
Goldman Sachs -- which recorded a record profit of $21.6 billion last year -- said any cost savings were
incidental.                                                             
''Our focus is on incentivizing our people to take more time off, rest and recharge,'' said Bentley de Beyer, the
bank's global head of human capital management. ''We are proud to join with many other companies in
introducing a flexible policy that requires a minimum amount of time out of the office to continue to build
resiliency and sustained performance.''                                 
At Goldman, the new policy has chafed bankers partly because Mr. Solomon has been adamant about a
return to the office.                                                   
Managing directors and partners at Goldman are typically allotted 20 vacation days or more, depending on
the length of their tenure, said a company representative who requested anonymity to discuss personnel
matters.                                                                
Under the new policy, more than 1,400 senior bankers will no longer have a cap on their time off, although all
employees will be expected to take a minimum of 15 days a year beginning in 2023, according to a memo
viewed by The New York Times. The 15-day stipulation is to provide some structure to junior employees, who
will also get two extra days off. To make sure the changes stick, the firm will keep tabs on vacation days
taken and address the matter if needed during performance discussions, the representative said.
In recent years, Goldman has rolled out family leave benefits. It gave 10 days off for Covid-19 disruptions,
which about 4,000 employees used. In 2019, it extended parental leave to 20 weeks from 16 weeks.
Goldman's vacation benefits echo those offered by other financial firms, including BlackRock, a giant asset
manager, and Bridgewater, the world's largest hedge fund.               

Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall Street firm synonymous with long hours and a hard-charging culture, is
telling some senior executives it won't be capping their days off.      
Goldman said partners and managing directors will no longer have a set number of vacation days starting this
month. The company is also expecting all employees to take a minimum of three weeks away from work each
year.                                                                   
For Goldman, the decision marks the latest in a string of moves it has made to adjust to the banking, trading
and deals environment since 2020.                                       
Goldman was one of the more aggressive banks about returning to in-person work and had largely full offices
in January. Meanwhile, its business has been booming. Firms like Goldman have raced to bring workers back
into the office and hire new ones to keep up with the flood of deals and frenzied markets.
Banks have more recently paid more to keep these workers. Goldman paid an additional $4.4 billion in
compensation in 2021. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. each spent billions more in compensation
as well.                                                                
In November, Goldman announced paid leave for pregnancy loss, an expansion to the amount of time
employees can take for bereavement leave and the introduction of an unpaid sabbatical for longtime
employees.                                                              
Goldman said its decision was designed to further support rest and recharge for workers.
"As a firm, we are committed to providing our people with differentiated benefits and offerings to support
well-being and resilience," Goldman said in the email announcing the new paid-time-off policy, which was
earlier reported by Bloomberg News.                                     
Goldman has about 400 partners and thousands of managing directors. It has more than 45,000 total
employees.                                                              

Companies are facing more stringent environmental, social and governance requirements leading into proxy
season.                                                                 
The Wall Street Journal's Emily Glazer talked to Catherine Winner, global head of stewardship at Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, about the SEC's new proposed rules, Goldman's proxy voting changes and
advice for companies in their sustainability reporting. Edited excerpts of the interview follow.
WSJ: What was your reaction after these long-awaited rules came out?    
MS. WINNER: Our voting framework is very supportive of the SEC's proposed climate-risk disclosure rules.
Both the SEC and the TCFD [Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures] are pushing for greater
emissions disclosures grounded in materiality.                          
In the U.S. particularly, our policy will support progress on emissions reporting as we get closer to the
proposed implementation deadline for the SEC's rule. As one of the leading global asset managers, we have
$2.5 trillion in assets under supervision. We will use this to help us drive positive change on this topic.
WSJ: When the proposals came out, were you surprised, or did you have a sense of what Goldman Sachs
Asset Management would do?                                              
MS. WINNER: We really believe that climate risk is a material investment consideration. We've been
engaging with companies for a number of years around disclosure and the encouraging of disclosure around
greenhouse-gas emissions that are material to their business.           
We've been engaging with 271 companies since 2020. We engaged to encourage better disclosure. And 42%
of those companies that we engaged have made improvements to their disclosures.
Since we believe this is a material investment consideration, and boards should be held accountable for
these climate risks and for disclosure of climate-related data and reporting, we intend to vote against chairs of
the committees with oversight of ESG risks at those companies that are still not disclosing or that have made
zero improvements on the disclosure of emissions data.                  

David Solomon is getting a bigger slice of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s private-equity profit.
The Goldman Sachs chief executive and a tight circle of lieutenants are taking a cut of profits from the firm's
private investment funds, according to people familiar with the plans.  
The perk could be worth hundreds of millions of dollars over the next several years to those executives, the
people said, multiples of their annual pay depending on how those funds do.
The perk risks angering both shareholders and the Goldman fund managers out of whose pockets the money
will come.                                                              
Goldman executives and partners can only earn the carried interest if they also invest their own money in the
funds, a bank spokeswoman said in a statement. With "reasonable fund returns," she said, the executives
couldn't earn multiples of their annual pay.                            
The bank's board reviews the co-investment program each year, she said. 
Unique among banks, Goldman is a big player in private investing. The firm has $426 billion of its own money
and that of clients invested in corporate buyouts, loans, real estate and stakes in other investment funds. It is
in the middle of another big fundraising push.                          
In the past, the profits from those investments -- known in the industry as carried interest -- were split evenly
between Goldman and the executives actually managing the funds, a common setup that ensures everyone
has some skin in the game.                                              
Going forward those executives will receive just 35%, the people said. Ten percent will be shared with
Goldman's roughly 400 partners, part of a push to restore the prestige of a title that once guaranteed
stratospheric wealth but has dimmed. Five percent will go into a pool for Mr. Solomon and his closest
deputies, the people said, fewer than a dozen people.