jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2022_Q2

JPMorgan Chase has told the market what it needed to hear.              
After holding steady with its forecast for net interest income when it released first-quarter earnings last month,
even as the Federal Reserve became increasingly hawkish, the bank in an Investor Day presentation Monday
raised that target to $56 billion-plus for 2022, excluding its volatile markets unit. It also sees a path, based on
what it anticipates for the fourth quarter, to a future annual rate of around $66 billion.
That alone will likely reassure investors that lenders aren't going to miss out on the upside of rising rates, with
worries about the pace of loan growth and deposit competition not erasing that advantage.
Bank stocks generally were surging on Monday, with JPMorgan shares on track for their best day since 2020
with a 7% gain. The KBW Nasdaq Bank index was up nearly 5%, almost triple the rebound in the broader
S&P 500.                                                                

Still, investors shouldn't get too far ahead of themselves. Even with this interest income expectation,
JPMorgan didn't alter its medium-term target for 17% return on tangible common equity, a key measure of
bank profitability.                                                     
Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said there was a very good chance the bank will achieve that 17% level this
year, and it could hit it next year in a benign environment. The bank's price-to-tangible book multiple is just
over 1.8 times, according to FactSet. It was trading at more than two times entering the pandemic, and
reached 2.5 times last year.                                            
Whether that means the stock is discounted depends on a broader perspective on returns, taking into
account some macro factors partly out of the bank's control. For one, Mr. Dimon noted that the bank is
"over-earning" on credit right now, losing around $3 billion annually on charge-offs, or about half of what he
said a normalized level might be. The bank expects this to eventually normalize, though it isn't anticipating a
rapid reversion. It says it may take until closer to the end of next year to get to prepandemic net charge-off
rates. Still, under current accounting rules, the bank may have to adjust its loan-loss reserves earlier, based
in part on worst-case macroeconomic scenarios.                          
Then there are rising regulatory capital requirements, which influence the denominator part of return on
equity. The bank said it expects to manage to a higher minimum capital ratio target as of the start of 2024.
Though it can get there via earnings growth -- and so it wouldn't have to raise capital and dilute shareholders
-- this may limit cash available for share buybacks that would normally boost book value per share. That is a
factor in book-value multiples.                                         
The bank also spent significant time on Monday explaining the payoff for its spending on investments in areas
such as cloud computing and travel services. But in this frightening market, investors might not be in any
mood to pay for potential. Such a cautious, spend-conscious mind-set might have factored into the largely
symbolic, nonbinding rejection of the bank's compensation plan for Mr. Dimon and other top executives in a
shareholder vote last week.                                             
So after Monday, investors might be reassured. But don't count on them getting excited yet.

Recession fears have markets in a panic, but the leaders of America's biggest bank said U.S. consumers
appear to be in good financial health.                                  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. expects credit losses to remain abnormally low through much of 2023, because
customers haven't yet drained cash balances that grew fatter during the pandemic, executives said at the
bank's investor day on Monday.                                          
"Big picture, the near-term credit outlook, especially for the U.S. consumer, remains strong," said Chief
Financial Officer Jeremy Barnum.                                        
Bank stocks soared Monday, outpacing the broader market. JPMorgan shares were up about 7% midday,
while the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index rose 4%. Recession fears have driven a selloff in bank stocks this year.
Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said a recession isn't out of the cards. The economy remains strong due to the
actions Congress and the Federal Reserve took early on in the pandemic to prop it up, he said, and that is
making it harder to see what's ahead.                                   

"It's a different strong economy," Mr. Dimon said. "If we go into a recession, it may be different from other
recessions."                                                            
So far, though, JPMorgan executives said they have seen no signs of looming trouble in early
loan-delinquency numbers. And while the economic forecast has worsened, they aren't expecting to add
significantly to their loan-loss reserves in the current quarter after surprising markets by setting aside more
money to cover potential losses earlier this year.                      
Executives cautioned that lower-income consumers, who make up a smaller slice of its customer base, are
starting to feel the effects of red-hot inflation.                      
Indeed, more consumers with low credit scores are falling behind on payments for car loans, personal loans
and credit cards. Delinquencies on subprime car loans and leases hit an all-time high in February, according
to credit-reporting firm Equifax Inc.                                   
Still, JPMorgan is confident enough in consumers' financial health to roll out new credit products. Executives
detailed new "buy now, pay later" installment plans for its credit- and debit-card customers. The bank is also
ramping up wealth-management offerings.                                 

While JPMorgan's consumer business remains in good shape, the outlook is cloudier for its Wall Street
operations.                                                             
Daniel Pinto, JPMorgan's president and the head of its corporate and investment bank, said fees from
investment banking are trending down 45% for the second quarter from a record stretch a year earlier due to
a decline in corporate deal making and stock offerings. Rocky markets, though, have been good for the bank:
Trading revenues are likely to rise 15% to 20% in the quarter.          

Many companies, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Amazon.com Inc., had more ambitious plans to
return to work a year ago and have had to reconsider them in light of the continuing pandemic, the hot labor
market and employee preferences for flexible schedules and locations.   

A year ago, JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said that people don't like commuting. "So what?" he
said. "We want people back at work."                                    

He softened his stance in an early April letter to shareholders in which he said that in the future, half the firm's
employees will spend some or all their time working remotely.