 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. For information regarding these risks and uncertainties, see &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of our 2021 Form 10-K. The following represents significant changes to our risk factors disclosed in our 2021 Form 10-K. 

The rights of holders of our common stock are generally subordinate to the rights of holders of our outstanding and any future issuances of debt securities and preferred stock. 

Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue debt securities as well as an aggregate of up to 10 million shares of preferred stock on the terms it determines without shareholder approval. In connection with our acquisition of TriState Capital Holdings on June 1, 2022, we issued 40,250 shares of 6.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share (&#8220;Series A Preferred Stock&#8221;), in the form of 1.61 million depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Series A Preferred Stock, and 80,500 shares of 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share (&#8220;Series B Preferred Stock&#8221; in the form of 3.22 million depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Series B Preferred Stock. Any deb t or shares of preferred stock that we may issue in the future will also be senior to our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts is uncertain. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 

The depositary shares representing our preferred stock are thinly traded and have limited voting rights. 

The depositary shares representing interests in our preferred stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, but an active, liquid trading market for such securities may not be sustained. A public trading market having depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace and independent decisions of willing buyers and sellers of our preferred stock, over which we have no control. Without an active, liquid trading market, holders of our depositary shares may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired. In addition, holders of our preferred stock (and, accordingly, holders of the depositary shares representing such stock), will have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of our voting common shareholders. Holders of preferred stock have voting rights that are generally limited to, with respect to the particular series of preferred stock held, (i) authorizing, creating or issuing any capital stock ranking senior to such preferred stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, and (ii) amending, altering or repealing any provision of our Articles of Incorporation so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of such series of preferred stock. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

