Here is the cleaned text file with only the content related to Synchrony Financial, while maintaining the original formatting:

```
synchrony_financial_2021_Q4

Linda Stultz learned last fall that she needed a $1,100 dental crown, but she didn't have the money.
So Ms. Stultz instead financed the treatment with CareCredit, a credit card offered by Synchrony Financial for
healthcare and pet expenses. She first learned about the card from her veterinarian's office during a visit for
her cat, Tinky.                                                         
Ms. Stultz, a 72-year-old retired social worker, has dental insurance through Medicare Advantage, but she
can't find a local dentist who accepts it. She paid off the cost of the crown but used the card again this year
for about $700 of fillings. She has a balance of about $580; if she doesn't pay it off by February, the bank will
start charging about 27% interest.                                      
Millions of Americans, including many who have dental insurance, have to take out personal loans or dig into
slim savings to pay for dental care. Many forgo treatment altogether. A previous version of President Biden's
proposed economic package would have given dental benefits to people on Medicare, but that measure was
dropped from the pared-back version of the legislation.                 
Covid-19 turbocharged investors' interest in medicine broadly, and some lenders are betting that rising
out-of-pocket costs for dental work will create a niche but lucrative financing market. CareCredit is a major
player in the fractured field, but it accounts for about 2% of an estimated $500 billion U.S. market for
personal-health and pet-industry expenditures, according to Wolfe Research.
Some companies are tapping into the market with buy-now-pay-later offerings. Those plans let people pay
for specific items in installment loans; lenders are often willing to approve borrowers who wouldn't qualify for
credit cards.                                                           
One buy-now-pay-later lender, Sunbit, began by teaming up with auto-repair shops, giving customers the
option to pay for brake repairs or new batteries in installments. The company says the dental-finance offering
it added this year is its fastest-growing segment.                      
"There is a big difference between if you go to the dentist and need a loan or you go to the jewelry store in the
mall and need a loan," Sunbit Chief Executive Officer Arad Levertov said. "One is nice to have, and one is
something that you need."                                               
That is another draw for lenders: People are less likely to default on healthcare purchases compared with
travel or consumer goods, in part because they tend to have established relationships with their dentists or
doctors, said Brian Shniderman, CEO of buy-now-pay-later lender Opy USA Inc. Opy started offering
financing at healthcare providers and veterinary offices this year.     
In July, Citizens Financial Group Inc. joined with patient-financing platform PrimaHealth Credit to offer
buy-now-pay-later financing for dental work. The bank said it plans to expand into other healthcare offerings,
including eye care.                                                     
                                                                                  
Many patients first hear about the financing options through their doctor's or dentist's office and can apply on
the spot.                                                               
Synchrony, a consumer lender based in Stamford, Conn., says CareCredit enables people to get treatment
they might have skipped. CareCredit is offered at more than 250,000 locations, including nearly 116,000
dental offices.                                                         
Some dentists, vets and doctors prefer steering patients to CareCredit over setting up a payment plan directly
with the office. That way, if a person stops paying, Synchrony is on the hook.
                                                                                  
Most purchases are eligible for six to 24 months of interest-free payments. Synchrony says nearly 80% of
customers pay off their balances in full before the interest-free period ends.
Ms. Stultz, who lives outside Chico, Calif., considered using CareCredit again when her dentist told her this
summer that she needed another $1,100 crown. But her card has a credit limit of $1,500, and she used it to
pay for the $700 in fillings.                                           
She opted for a cheaper filling that her dentist says is only a temporary fix. To make it last, she avoids sticky
foods and chewing on her left side.                                     
                                                                                  
Ms. Stultz said she thought CareCredit was a miracle when she first heard about it, but now she is just
worried about the bills coming due. She doesn't believe she will be able to pay off the card by February, when
interest from the previous six months will be added to her unpaid balance.
Dental insurance typically covers far less than traditional medical insurance. Many plans will pay for only
$1,000 or $2,000 of dental work in a year.                              
"Dental insurance is not true insurance in the sense that it protects you from catastrophic costs," said Marko
Vujicic, chief economist of the American Dental Association's Health Policy Institute. "It's more of a prepaid
benefit."                                                               
Last month, nearly 1,000 people filed through Pittsburgh's convention center for Mission of Mercy Pittsburgh,
a free, two-day dental clinic. Organizers said in past years, about a third of attendees had dental insurance.
                                                                                  
When Jerry Stephens needed major dental work last year, he and his wife, Carolyn, pulled $6,000 from their
IRA to pay for it.                                                      
The couple, who live outside Las Vegas, have dental insurance, but it covered only a small portion. This year,
the dentist told Ms. Stephens, 77, that she needed $3,000 of work. For now, it isn't in the couple's budget.
"At my age," she said, "I have to get a good return on investment on this money."
```