Here's the cleaned text file with only the JPMorgan Chase & Co. related content, formatted as requested:

```
```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2021_Q4


          Business News: UBS Selects JPMorgan Veteran as Next CFO                 
          UBS Group AG named JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive Sarah Youngwood as its next chief financial officer,
          another high-profile hire of an American banking veteran as the Swiss bank takes on wealth-management
          rivals in the U.S.                                                      
          Ms. Youngwood, at JPMorgan for 24 years, has been CFO for consumer and community banking, a rung
          down from the C-suite role she will take at UBS. She is succeeding Kirt Gardner, who UBS said decided to
          leave after nine years. She is set to take over in May after a two-month handover period.
          UBS named former Morgan Stanley executive Colm Kelleher as its next chairman last month, adding
          firepower to the bank's push to court more rich American customers with digital wealth advice.
          Ms. Youngwood's hire will help balance the gender composition of UBS's top management team. In May it
          hired a banking outsider from Rio Tinto PLC, Barbara Levi, as general counsel, and now will have four
          women on the executive board, up from two in 2020. Ms. Youngwood's JPMorgan roles included heading
          finance for its global technology unit and for the bank's diversity and inclusion team. Earlier, her jobs there
          were in investor relations and the financial institutions group in Paris, London and New York. She has French
          and American citizenship.                                               
          One of Ms. Youngwood's JPMorgan bosses, and a predecessor there as consumer banking CFO, is
          Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake is one of banking's most powerful women and in a clutch of executives who are
          seen as being groomed as eventual successors to CEO Jamie Dimon. The consumer bank is often
          JPMorgan's largest division by profit.                                  
          UBS Chief Executive Ralph Hamers has said that adding gender and ethnic diversity at the bank is a priority.
          He championed a move in June to let around two-thirds of UBS staff mix working from home with the office,
          positioning the flexibility as a hiring advantage. Some other big banks pressured workers to return to the
          office full time.                                                       
          Mr. Hamers has also homed in on digital products as a way to spread UBS's reach. In October, he said the
          bank would launch a digital investing platform in the U.S. for customers with between $250,000 and $2 million
          in assets, down-market from its current client base. Customers will be able to select from recommended
          investments and bounce their portfolios off a human adviser if desired. 
          The move puts UBS into more direct competition with U.S. rivals such as Morgan Stanley and Bank of
          America Corp.'s Merrill Lynch, which have been building apps to bring in less-affluent households.
          Mr. Gardner, 62 years old, is leaving after playing a key role in UBS's revival of its fortunes from
          financial-crisis basket case to global wealth manager serving billionaires. He joined UBS in 2013 and has
          been on the executive board as CFO since 2016. UBS is now widely seen as one of Europe's strongest
          banks, reflected in its share price trading around book value.          
          UBS rival Credit Suisse Group AG has also hired for top jobs from American banks to rebuild its credibility
          with investors. U.S. banks have roared ahead of European banks in the past decade with stronger earnings
          and financial health.                                                   


          New Barclays Boss Is Adept at Risk                                      
          Barclays appointed C.S. Venkatakrishnan as chief executive Monday after Mr. Staley unexpectedly stepped
          down under pressure from regulators about how he characterized his relationship with convicted sex offender
          Jeffrey Epstein.                                                        
          Known as Venkat to colleagues, the new Barclays chief is a veteran executive of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
          where he played a role in calling out risks in the London Whale trading debacle.
          He joined Barclays in 2016, shortly after Mr. Staley, whom he described as a mentor and friend in a memo
          sent to employees Monday.                                               
          Mr. Venkatakrishnan served as the bank's chief risk officer for several years. In October 2020, he took over
          as global head of markets and co-head of the investment bank, a sign that he was being groomed as a
          possible successor. The board of Barclays identified him as the preferred candidate for the role more than a
          year ago, the bank said Monday.                                         
          Under Mr. Staley, Barclays has struggled to break out of its midtier status, lagging behind larger U.S. rivals
          such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp. in advising companies on debt
          and equity raising, and mergers and acquisitions. It edged ahead of Credit Suisse Group AG in the second
          quarter in terms of investment-banking revenue, taking advantage of the Swiss lender's stumbles.
          He gained a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and joined JPMorgan in 1994.
          At the U.S. bank, he held senior roles in asset management, investment banking and risk.
          Mr. Venkatakrishnan proved his understanding of market risks in the middle of JPMorgan's London Whale
          trading debacle in 2012. He didn't work in the chief investment office unit that was responsible for the trades,
          which cost the bank $6 billion, but had oversight of market risks in the separate investment bank.
          He was among the voices internally who raised concerns about the risk management of trades inside the
          chief investment office before they started souring. But executives disagreed with him, according to a report
          from the U.S. Senate investigation. It turned out his model was correct, the report said.
          Later, Mr. Venkatakrishnan was brought in to help with the cleanup of the trade and the chief investment
          office, people familiar with the bank said.                             
          JPMorgan executives say they tried to keep him at the bank when Mr. Staley, also a JPMorgan alum, lured
          him to Barclays. Unlike Mr. Staley, a brash American who used a charismatic charm on clients and
          employees, Mr. Venkatakrishnan is seen as lower key, according to executives who have worked with him.
```
```