 Item 1. Business 

Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, &#8220;the Corporation,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation&#8217;s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation&#8217;s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. 

Bank of America is one of the world&#8217;s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Bank of America&#8217;s website is www.bankofamerica.com and the Investor Relations portion of our website is http://investor.bankofamerica.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely post and make accessible financial and other information regarding the Corporation on our website. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website under the heading Financial Information (accessible by clicking on the SEC Filings link) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available on the Investor Relations portion of our website under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines (accessible by clicking on the Governance Highlights link); and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link). We also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Segments 

Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global 

&#160;

Wealth &#38; Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 32 through 41 of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&#38;A) and Note 24 &#8211; Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product specific basis. 

Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 208,000 employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good. 

Government Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. 

We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. 

As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the 

##TABLE_START &#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America &#160; 2 

##TABLE_END

Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions. 

The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision. 

We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our U.S. derivatives activity is subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC, National Futures Association and SEC, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorit&#233; de Contr&#244;le Prudentiel et de R&#233;solution and Autorit&#233; des March&#233;s Financiers, respectively. 

Source of Strength 

Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC&#8217;s loss, subject to certain exceptions. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving its nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

&#160;

Deposit Insurance 

Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC&#8217;s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. 

The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report, the DIF ratio is below this required target and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Regulatory, Compliance and Legal on page 14 . 

Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements 

As a financial holding company, we and our bank subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory capital and liquidity guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the FDIC and the OCC. These rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact enhanced capital and liquidity rules. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to meet these regulatory guidelines and to support our business activities. These evolving rules are likely to influence our planning processes and may require additional regulatory capital and liquidity, as well as impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHCs&#8217; and national banks&#8217; risk governance frameworks. The Federal Reserve also issued a final rule, which became effective January 1, 2019, that includes minimum external total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt requirements. 

For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital in the MD&#38;A on page 46 , and Note 17 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements , which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 

Distributions 

We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The purpose of the CCAR for the Federal Reserve is to assess the capital planning process of the BHC, including any planned capital actions, such as payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. 

Our ability to pay dividends is also affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. The right of the Corporation, our shareholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. 

If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all 

##TABLE_START 3 &#160; Bank of America 

&#160; 

&#160; 

##TABLE_END

applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. Additionally, the applicable federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. 

For more information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see Note 14 &#8211; Shareholders&#8217; Equity and Note 17 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 

Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. 

Resolution Planning 

As a BHC with greater than $50 billion of assets, the Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to periodically submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. 

Such resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of the BHC and its material entities pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable resolution regimes under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance. 

If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the BHC&#8217;s plan is not credible, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. A summary of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites. 

The FDIC also requires the submission of a resolution plan for Bank of America, National Association, which must describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is available on the FDIC&#8217;s website. 

We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our resolvability, including simplifying our legal entity structure and business operations, and increasing our preparedness to implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and operational standpoint. 

Across international jurisdictions, resolution planning is the responsibility of national resolution authorities (RA). Among those, the jurisdictions of most impact to the Corporation are the requirements associated with subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France, where rules have been issued requiring the submission of significant information about locally-incorporated subsidiaries (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) as well as the Corporation&#8217;s banking branches located in those jurisdictions that are deemed to be material for resolution planning purposes. As a result of the RA's review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could increase operating costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. 

For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Liquidity on page 7 . 

Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the 

&#160;

Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors&#8217; consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC&#8217;s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt. 

Under the FDIC&#8217;s &#8220;single point of entry&#8221; strategy for resolving SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC. 

Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires that BHCs maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution. 

For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Liquidity on page 7 . 

Limitations on Acquisitions 

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June 30, 2019, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. 

In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June 30, 2019, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. 

The Volcker Rule 

The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities&#8217; investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required 

##TABLE_START &#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America &#160; 4 

##TABLE_END

to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 

Derivatives 

Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. These operations are subject to regulation under the Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisdictions, that regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which we operate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives; and imposing derivatives trading transparency requirements. Regulations of derivatives are already in effect in many markets in which we operate. 

In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K., Germany and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations to address concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution of global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow suit. Generally, these resolution stay regulations require amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise of cross-default rights based on an affiliate&#8217;s entry into insolvency proceedings. As resolution stay regulations of a particular jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend impacted financial contracts in compliance with such regulations either as a regulated entity or as a counterparty facing a regulated entity in such jurisdiction. 

Consumer Regulations 

Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC. 

Privacy and Information Security 

We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and protection of the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to periodically disclose Bank of America&#8217;s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties, under certain circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws also require us to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to provide the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. Security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. 

Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or contact customers with marketing offers and establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their personal information. For example, California&#8217;s Consumer Privacy 

&#160;

Act (CCPA), which went into effect in January 2020, provides consumers with the right to know what personal data is being collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data, among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection Directive and related implementing national laws in its member states. The CCPA's and GDPR&#8217;s impact on the Corporation was assessed and addressed through comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad, as well as court proceedings with respect to the validity of cross-border data transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty to privacy compliance globally. 

