jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2023_Q3

JPMorgan Chase has got a deal for you -- if you have an extra $5 million lying around.
The New York bank, the largest in the U.S., is offering customers of its private bank division a 6% rate on a
six-month certificate of deposit if they put $5 million or more into the product.
JPMorgan isn't exactly hurting for deposits. But like other banks, its overall deposits have declined since the
Federal Reserve started raising interest rates in early 2022. Special rate offers are a bid to keep wealthy
customers happy -- and maybe earn more of their business.               
Mass-market customers shouldn't expect the same. JPMorgan is paying 5% to retail banking customers who
put in $100,000 or more for the same period, according to its website. Customers who put in less than
$100,000 can earn 4%.                                                   
The bank's basic interest-bearing checking and savings accounts still pay just 0.01%.

Funds have to come from outside of JPMorgan to qualify for the 6% rate, the bank said. Other banks are
advertising six-month CDs paying 5% or more.                            
The 6% offer has some drawbacks. CDs don't have the same tax advantages that other products like
Treasurys can provide. If the Fed starts cutting rates, it may be hard for customers to find a CD with the same
yield once the product matures.                                         
For years following the 2008-09 financial crisis, JPMorgan and other megabanks raked in deposits despite
paying almost no interest on CDs and other products. Customers resigned themselves to earning nothing in
exchange for access to big banks' technology and ubiquitous branch networks. After all, rates were pretty
low everywhere.                                                         
The deposit glut only intensified after the economic stimulus measures during the pandemic. JPMorgan
added about $900 billion in deposits in 2020 and 2021.                  

The Fed's steep rate increases changed that picture. By the start of this year, wealthy customers in particular
were moving their extra cash into Treasurys and money-market funds for higher rates.
Over the past year, deposits in JPMorgan's asset- and wealth management unit have fallen 22%, far more
than overall deposits. Wealth deposits are also down by double digits at competitors Bank of America and
Wells Fargo.                                                            
Banks are generally paying between 4% and 5% on new wealth-management deposits compared with
around 2.5% to land regular customers' deposits, said Adam Stockton, a managing director at Curinos, a firm
that tracks data including deposit rates. He said a 6% rate is very rare.

JPMorgan's CD has a maximum deposit of $100 million. The offer ends Saturday.

Lori Beer, the global chief information officer of JPMorgan Chase, talks about the latest artificial intelligence
with the enthusiasm of a convert. She refers to A.I. chatbots like ChatGPT, with its ability to produce
everything from poetry to computer programs, as ''transformative'' and a ''paradigm shift.''
But it's not coming soon to the nation's largest bank. JPMorgan has blocked access to ChatGPT from its
computers and told its 300,000 workers not to put any bank information into the chatbot or other generative
A.I. tools.                                                             
For now, Ms. Beer said, there are too many risks of leaking confidential data, questions about how the data is
used and about the accuracy of the A.I.-generated answers. The bank has created a walled-off, private
network to allow a few hundred data scientists and engineers to experiment with the technology. They are
exploring uses like automating and improving tech support and software development.

This year, JPMorgan trademarked IndexGPT as a possible name for a generative A.I.-driven investment
advisory product.                                                       
''That's something we will look at and continue to assess over time,'' said Ms. Beer, the bank's tech leader.
''But it's not close to launching yet.''                                

The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether private-equity firm One Equity Partners'
communications with investors about its past and future performance violated rules.
One Equity, which was once JPMorgan Chase's buyout arm, has recently been in settlement talks with the
SEC, people familiar with the matter said. Regulators have sought a fine of as much as $5 million, although
One Equity hasn't agreed to that amount and the penalty could be lower, one of the people said.
The SEC's multiyear investigation has looked at communications Dick Cashin, the firm's president, had with
investors about fund performance and whether he conveyed confidential information other parties could have
traded on. Regulators didn't find insider trading or misuse of the firm's information, the person said.
Cashin didn't respond to requests for comment.                          
"OEP has been fully cooperating with an SEC inquiry," the firm said. "We believe that the resolution of this
matter will not materially impact ongoing operations or any of the funds. We continue to work diligently to
ensure that best-in-class compliance policies and procedures are adhered to by all employees."