Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., with headers, footers, and metadata removed:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2022_Q1

Tesla Countersues JPMorgan in Fight Over Warrant Value
Tesla Inc. countersued JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Monday, intensifying a dispute over the payout for a bond sale the bank helped arrange in 2014.                                   
JPMorgan started the fight with a lawsuit in November, claiming it was owed around $162 million more for a set of warrants it had acquired as part of the bond sale. Tesla on Monday said the bank wasn't entitled to the billions of dollars in stock it got last year from those warrants.      
The dispute is lifting the curtain on a testy relationship between the nation's biggest bank and the world's most valuable auto maker.                                               
JPMorgan has been spurned by Tesla on business dealings and executives at the companies have clashed, including chief executives Jamie Dimon and Elon Musk, The Wall Street Journal has reported.
Tesla claimed that the feud is what is really behind JPMorgan's suit. It alleged the bank's actions amounted to "bad faith and avarice."                                                
"JPM pressed its exorbitant demand as an act of retaliation against Tesla both for it having passed over JPM in major business deals and out of senior JPM executives' animus toward Mr. Musk," Tesla alleged.
JPMorgan said Monday that "there is no merit to their claim. This comes down to fulfilling contractual obligations."                                                           
The dispute centers on one of Mr. Musk's more turbulent episodes, when he toyed with taking Tesla private in 2018. He was later forced to relinquish his title as chairman in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his tweets about it.                                    
In 2014, JPMorgan acquired warrants from Tesla as part of a convertible bond sale it worked on for the auto maker with other banks.                                                 
The warrants allowed the banks to acquire stock in Tesla at a set price when they expired in June and July 2021.                                                                   
JPMorgan has claimed Mr. Musk affected the value of the warrants when he tweeted in 2018 that he had the funding to take Tesla private. The bank used his tweets as justification to lower the strike price of the warrants, allowing it to get more profit if Tesla's stock kept rising.  
Last summer, Tesla paid up based on the original price but refused to accept JPMorgan's change. The bank got what amounted to billions of dollars in stock, Tesla said Monday.   
Tesla on Monday said JPMorgan had no right to make the change and demand more money, in part because it said the bank didn't really believe Mr. Musk would take Tesla private. It said Mr. Musk's tweets didn't impact the value and that none of the other banks made the change.             
Tesla said the bank broke the contract and instead should have canceled the warrants and returned them. The suit is seeking unspecified damages and fees from the bank.         

Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last
After a blockbuster year, the five biggest investment banks paid out $142 billion in compensation for 2021, $18 billion more than in 2020. Pay, which on Wall Street is usually tightly tethered to how much money firms bring in, rose twice as fast as revenue.                                
At JPMorgan Chase & Co., compensation for investment bankers and traders rose 13%, about three times as much as the extra revenue they produced. On Thursday, JPMorgan said it is paying Chief Executive Jamie Dimon $34.5 million for a record-breaking 2021, $3 million more than he made in the previous two years. The JPMorgan board had also awarded Mr. Dimon a $50 million special bonus earlier in 2021.
At JPMorgan, the bonus pool for investment bankers was about a third higher than in 2020, a person familiar with the matter said. Stock traders got higher payouts after a record year for that business, and bonuses for fixed-income traders, where revenue fell from a 2020 peak, were also on the whole higher.
JPMorgan also gave its younger staff a raise this week for the second time in seven months, lifting base salaries to match rivals. First-year bankers will now make $110,000 a year, up from $85,000 at the start of 2021, according to a person familiar with the matter.                   

Outlook 2022 (A Special Report) --- The Pros Are Now Following The 'Dumb Money'
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in September introduced a new data product that includes information on which securities individual investors are likely buying and selling, as well as which sectors and stocks are being talked about on social media. About 50 clients, including some of the largest asset and quant managers, are testing the product, the bank says. JPMorgan equity traders are also using it to help manage their own risk.
"The flow from retail is not something you can ignore if you are a professional investor," says Chris Berthe, JPMorgan's global co-head of cash equities trading. "It's a whole new investor class that has emerged, and it's an investor class that's actually getting themes right."           
JPMorgan estimates that individual investors accounted for more than a third of daily trading activity several times over the past 18 months, reaching nearly 40% of shares traded on peak days.
```