Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to **Citigroup Inc.**, removing all titles, headers, footers, and other non-content elements:

```
Citigroup Inc. has underperformed its peers and needs a comprehensive transformation that will take years,
Chief Executive Jane Fraser told investors Wednesday.                   
Kicking off her first investor-day presentation a year and a day after taking over the bank, Ms. Fraser outlined
the conclusions she and her new management team had reached after what she described as an honest
review.                                                                 
The bank's leaders had underinvested in regulatory work and technology, she said. They had avoided
making hard decisions about getting out of businesses. And they had failed to fully integrate the bank's
businesses.                                                             
"We have an urgent need to address the issues that have kept our firm from living up to its potential," Ms.
Fraser said.                                                            
Shares rose 1.7% on Wednesday to $59.56. The stock has lagged behind peers and is trading at a steep
discount to other big banks.                                            

In her first year, Ms. Fraser has reshaped the bank and its strategy.   
She mapped out a plan to sell off several international consumer businesses. She laid new growth plans in
wealth management and commercial banking.                               
She embarked on a complex transformation of Citigroup's inner plumbing and technology, a multiyear
project the bank needs to appease regulators who slapped it with a consent order and fine in 2020.

At its core, Ms. Fraser said, Citigroup is a global bank for global companies. She said the bank will double
down on that mission while expanding wealth management and remaining committed to U.S. consumer
banking.                                                                
She said the bank would be leaner, including in its management ranks, and simpler to control.
She set a new target for its closely watched measure of its profitability, return on tangible common equity, of
between 11% and 12% in the next three to five years.                    

Five years ago, the bank told investors the metric would surpass 12% in 2019 and would keep rising.
But the restructuring and increasing costs have led analysts to slash their expectations heading into today's
investor day.                                                           

"Everybody listening today knows this isn't a quick fix," Ms. Fraser said. "This is a multiyear journey."
Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason forecast low-single-digit percentage revenue growth this year and a 5% to
6% increase in costs.                                                   

He said the work to fix the regulatory concerns is going to cost $3 billion to $3.5 billion this year, bringing the
total bill so far to nearly $6 billion.                                 
"The reality is that until we address the challenges we face, we won't meaningfully narrow the gaps to peers,"
Mr. Mason said. "That isn't a reality we like or that we are comfortable with."
In the institutional clients business, executives said they were focused on winning new e-commerce clients
running global businesses, expanding the commercial bank for medium-size U.S. businesses and targeting
advisory and banking products for private-equity shops.                 

In retail, the bank said it was committed to the U.S. market and said it was expecting credit-card loan growth
this year along with other ways to lend to clients around cards, like buy-now, pay-later.
On a new push for wealth management, they said they are targeting growth for assets and revenue in the low
teens.                                                                  
The day was supposed to be in person but was moved last minute to virtual when Mr. Mason and Paco
Ybarra, the head of the institutional clients group, caught Covid-19.   

"In my 21 years at Citi I've had many memorable moments. I'll add the 2022 investor day to my list," Mr.
Mason said. "And not just because I caught Covid from Paco."            

Citigroup will eliminate overdraft fees this year, becoming the biggest lender in the nation to get rid of the
charges, which regulators have criticized.                              

The bank will do away with fees for overdrafts and returned items by the summer, it said in a statement on
Thursday. It follows smaller lenders, including Capital One and Ally Financial, that said last year that they
would halt the fees. Among the nation's banking giants, Bank of America said it would cut -- but not eliminate
-- overdraft charges to $10 from $35 this year, while JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo have tweaked their
services for strapped customers.                                        
Citigroup's move aims ''to make the financial system easier and more equitable for communities who have
little or no financial buffer,'' said Gonzalo Luchetti, the chief executive of U.S. personal banking at Citi.
Banking regulators have focused on overdraft practices in recent months. The acting comptroller of the
currency, Michael J. Hsu, has said the charges disproportionately affect the most financially vulnerable
customers. Rohit Chopra, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has said many lenders
have become ''hooked on overdraft fees'' to feed their profits.         
The U.S. banking industry's revenue from overdraft and insufficient funds was $15.47 billion in 2019,
according to an estimate in December from the consumer bureau. LANANH NGUYEN
```