 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

We are including the following new risk factor which should be read in conjunction with our risk factors provided in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 10-K: 

The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for our business. 

The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (&#8216;&#8216;COVID-19&#8217;&#8217;) pandemic creates significant and pervasive societal, economic and market disruption globally. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments. These developments are highly uncertain, including the scope, duration and severity of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our remote working and virtual meeting arrangements and staffing levels, the measures that may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak (such as stimulus, quarantines and travel restrictions, effectiveness of health care, and new or interim regulation), the actions of other third parties in response to the pandemic, and the possible further impacts on the global economy. Given the uncertainty of future developments, we seek to manage our risks effectively, but our ability to do so is subject to the inherent limitations of obtaining timely, reliable analysis and information in a situation that continues to develop. 

Towards the end of the first quarter of 2020 and into April 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted each of our business segments and impacts would likely be experienced in future quarters if conditions persist. Consumer demand, our fee and investment income, our owned asset values, and our credit reserve and other financial or actuarial assumptions and reserve calculations have been (and may further be) negatively impacted from a decline and volatility of asset prices, reduction in interest rates, widening of credit spreads, credit deterioration, decreased liquidity in trading markets and other economic and market effects of the global pandemic. Should these conditions be prolonged or worsen for an extended time period, we could experience volatility and uncertainty in volumes, uncertainty in availability and price levels of financial assets and hedges, reduced client activity and fees, increased mortality and morbidity in our insurance policyholder base, increase constraints and costs of capital, possible impacts to our credit ratings and other negative impacts on our financial position. 

The COVID 19 pandemic may also affect the ability of our suppliers, distributors, vendors, reinsurers and other counterparties to provide products and services and otherwise fulfill their commitments to us. In addition, the market and economic uncertainty and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC. 

