 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Webster&#8217;s executive officers are each appointed to serve for a one-year period. Information concerning their principal occupation during at least the last five years is set forth below. 

John R. Ciulla, 54, is President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Webster and Webster Bank. He was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Webster Financial Corporation in January 2018. Mr. Ciulla joined Webster in 2004 and has served in a variety of management positions at the Company, including Chief Credit Risk Officer and Senior Vice President, Commercial Banking, where he was responsible for several business units. He was promoted from Executive Vice President and Head of Middle Market Banking to lead Commercial Banking in January 2014 and to President in October 2015. Prior to joining Webster, he was Managing Director of The Bank of New York, where he worked from 1997 to 2004. Mr. Ciulla serves on the Federal Reserve System&#8217;s Federal Advisory Council as a representative of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He also serves on the board of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA) and is a member of the board of the Business Council of Fairfield County. 

Glenn I. MacInnes, 58, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Webster and Webster Bank. He joined Webster in 2011. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. MacInnes was Chief Financial Officer at New Alliance Bancshares for two years and was employed for 11 years at Citigroup in a series of senior positions, including Deputy CFO for Citibank North America and CFO of Citibank (West) FSB. Mr. MacInnes serves on the Board of Wellmore Behavioral Health, Inc. 

Daniel H. Bley, 51, is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of Webster and Webster Bank since August of 2010. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Bley worked at ABN AMRO and Royal Bank of Scotland from 1990 to 2010, having served as Managing Director of Financial Institutions Credit Risk and Group Senior Vice President, Head of Financial Institutions and Trading Credit Risk Management. Mr. Bley currently serves on the Board of Directors of Junior Achievement of Greater Fairfield County. 

Bernard M. Garrigues, 61, is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Webster and Webster Bank. Mr. Garrigues joined Webster in April 2014. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Garrigues was with TIMEX Group in Middlebury, Connecticut, where he was the Chief Human Resources Officer having comprehensive global HR responsibility for several thousand employees in 22 countries. Previously, he worked 21 years for General Electric where he served as global head of HR with a number of GE businesses, including GE Commercial Finance, GE Capital Real Estate, GE Capital IT Solutions and Healthcare in both the United States and Europe. Mr. Garrigues is Six Sigma Green Belt certified, a published author, and a seasoned guest lecturer. 

Karen A. Higgins-Carter, 50, is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Webster and Webster Bank. Ms. Higgins-Carter joined Webster in July 2018. Prior to joining Webster, Ms. Higgins-Carter was Managing Director and Head of the Office of the Chief Information and Operations Officer for the Americas at Mitsubishi UFJ (MUFG) Financial Group from November 2016 to July 2018, where she was responsible for developing and leading the execution of the company&#8217;s IT strategic plan, IT governance, information risk management, communications, employee development and engagement. Prior to Mitsubishi UFJ, Ms. Higgins-Carter served as Technology General Manager at Bridgewater Associates from November 2014 to November 2016, and as Managing Director and Head of Consumer Risk Technology at JP Morgan Chase from June 2012 to August 2014. 

Nitin J. Mhatre, 49, is Executive Vice President, Head of Community Banking of Webster and Webster Bank. He joined Webster in October 2008 as Executive Vice President, Consumer Lending of Webster Bank and was appointed Executive Vice President, Consumer Finance in January 2009. He was promoted to his current position in August of 2013. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Mhatre worked at Citigroup across multiple geographies including St. Louis, Missouri, Stamford, Connecticut, Guam, USA and India, in various capacities. In his most recent position, he was the Managing Director for the Home Equity Retail business for CitiMortgage based in Stamford, Connecticut. Mr. Mhatre is Chairman of the Board for the Consumer Bankers Association headquartered in Washington, D.C., and also serves on the board of Junior Achievement of Southwest New England. 

Christopher J. Motl, 49, is Executive Vice President, Head of Commercial Banking of Webster and Webster Bank. He joined Webster in 2004 and was responsible for establishing and growing the Sponsor and Specialty Banking Group and was most recently Executive Vice President and Director of Middle Market Banking. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Motl worked at CoBank, where he was Vice President and Relationship Manager. Mr. Motl is on the board of Special Olympics of Connecticut and the Travelers Championship. 

Brian R. Runkle, 51, is Executive Vice President of Bank Operations of Webster and Webster Bank. Mr. Runkle joined Webster in August 2016. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Runkle served in several leadership roles at General Electric across the country from 1999 to 2016, including Managing Director, Risk for GE Capital. He is Six Sigma Master Black Belt certified. Mr. Runkle was a volunteer team leader and campaign member for United Way in Connecticut. 

Charles L. Wilkins, 58, is Executive Vice President of Webster and Webster Bank and Head of HSA Bank. He joined Webster in January 2014. Prior to joining Webster, he was President of his own consulting practice specializing in healthcare and financial services from June 2012 to December 2013. 

Harriet Munrett Wolfe, 66, is Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Webster and Webster Bank. She joined Webster in March 1997 as Senior Vice President and Counsel, was appointed Secretary in June 1997, and General Counsel in September 1999. In January 2003, she was appointed Executive Vice President. Prior to this, Ms. Wolfe was in private practice. Ms. Wolfe serves as a board member of the University of Connecticut Foundation, Inc., and as a member of the Foundation&#8217;s Audit Committee; she previously served as a member of the Executive Committee, and Chair of the Real Estate Committee. 

Albert J. Wang, 44, is Chief Accounting Officer of Webster and Webster Bank. He joined Webster in September 2017 and is responsible for Webster&#8217;s accounting, tax and financial reporting activities. Prior to joining Webster, Mr. Wang served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for the Banc of California from July 2016 to September 2017. Previously, Mr. Wang served in various leadership positions with Santander Bank from December 2010 to July 2016, most recently as Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Wang&#8217;s earlier management roles included those at PricewaterhouseCoopers from June 2004 until December 2010, where he provided assurance and business advisory services to depository and lending institutions. Mr. Wang is a Certified Public Accountant with over 20 years of accounting and finance experience working with domestic and offshore companies. 

Directors and Corporate Governance 

Webster has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all directors, officers and employees, including the principal executive officers, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The Company has also adopted corporate governance guidelines and charters for the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Executive, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors. The corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees can be found on the Company&#8217;s website (www.websterbank.com). 

A printed copy of any of these documents may be obtained without charge directly from the Company at the following address: 

Webster Financial Corporation 

145 Bank Street 

Waterbury, Connecticut 06702 

Attn: Investor Relations 

Telephone: (203) 578-2202 

Additional information required under this item may be found under the sections captioned &#8220;Information as to Nominees,&#8221; "Corporate Governance'" and &#8220;Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports&#8221; in the Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

