 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and impact our results of operations or financial condition. The information presented below updates, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and information disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting adverse economic conditions have already adversely impacted our business and results and could have a more material impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

The ongoing COVID-19 global and national health emergency has caused significant disruption in the United States and international economies and financial markets. The spread of COVID-19 has caused illness, quarantines, cancellation of events and travel, business and school shutdowns, reduction in commercial activity and financial transactions, supply chain interruptions, increased unemployment, and overall economic and financial market instability. Many states, including Connecticut, where we are headquartered, and New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Wisconsin, in which we have significant operations, have been particularly affected and have declared states of emergency. 

Although banks have generally been permitted to continue operating, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused disruptions to our business and could cause material disruptions to our business and operations in the future. Impacts to our business, requiring implementation of new processes in a short period of time, have included decreases in customer traffic in our retail branch locations, shifting transactions at branches to drive through or by appointment only, the transition of a significant portion of our workforce to remote locations from home, increases in requests for forbearance and loan modifications, and additional health and safety precautions implemented at all physical locations. To the extent that commercial and social restrictions remain in place or increase, our delinquencies, foreclosures, and credit losses may materially increase and we could experience reductions in fee income as transaction volumes decline. 

Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain deposit levels and loan origination volume and to obtain additional financing. Furthermore, such conditions have and may continue to cause the value of collateral associated with our existing loans to decline. The persistence or worsening of current economic conditions could also adversely affect certain risks related to our accounting estimates, as described within the Use of Estimates section of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis within this document. 

In addition, in March 2020, the Federal Reserve lowered the target range for the federal funds rate to a range from 0 to 0.25 percent in part as a result of the pandemic. A prolonged period of very low interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our interest income and the market value of our investments. Refer to Asset/Liability Management and Market Risk section in the Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis within this document for more information regarding the impact of the interest rate environment. 

While we have taken and are continuing to take actions to protect the safety and well-being of our employees, customers, and communities, no assurance can be given that the steps being taken will be deemed to be adequate or appropriate, nor can we predict the level of disruption which will occur to our employees' ability to provide customer support and service. The continued or renewed spread of COVID-19 could negatively impact the availability of key personnel necessary to conduct our business, the business and operations of our third-party service providers who perform critical services for our business, or the businesses of many of our customers and borrowers. In addition, as a result of the pandemic and the related increase in remote working by our personnel and the personnel of other companies, the risk of cyber-attacks, breaches or similar events, whether through our systems or those of third parties on which we rely, has increased. 

Among the factors outside our control that are likely to affect the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have on our business are: 

&#8226; the pandemic&#8217;s course and severity; 

&#8226; the direct and indirect results of the pandemic, such as recessionary economic trends, including with respect to employment, wages and benefits, commercial activity, consumer spending and real estate market values; 

&#8226; political, legal and regulatory actions and policies in response to the pandemic, including the effects of restrictions on commerce and banking, such as moratorium and other suspension of collections, foreclosure, and related obligations; 

&#8226; the timing, magnitude and effect of public spending, directly or through subsidies, its direct and indirect effects on commercial activity and incentives of employers and individuals to resume or increase employment, wages and benefits and commercial activity; 

&#8226; the timing and availability of direct and indirect governmental support for various financial assets, including mortgage loans; 

&#8226; the potential impact of changes in medical spending and unemployment on our HSA business and related deposits; 

&#8226; the long-term effect of the economic downturn on the value of our assets and related accounting estimates; 

&#8226; potential longer-term effects of increased government spending on the interest rate environment and borrowing costs for non-governmental parties; 

&#8226; the ability of our employees and our third-party vendors to work effectively during the course of the pandemic; 

&#8226; potential longer-term shifts toward mobile banking, telecommuting and telecommerce; and 

&#8226; geographic variation in the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including in states in which we operate physically such as Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Wisconsin. 

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in severe volatility in the financial markets and meaningfully lower stock prices for many companies, including our common stock. Depending on the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the price of our common stock may continue to experience volatility and declines. 

As a participating lender in the PPP, the Company may be exposed to additional litigation risk. Since the PPP opened, several banks have been targeted in lawsuits alleging failure to properly comply with the requirements of the PPP and other consumer protection regulations in connection with PPP lending. If the Company is similarly targeted, any PPP-related litigation could result in costs, liabilities or reputational damage that could have a material adverse impact on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition or results of operations 

We are continuing to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and related risks, although the rapid development and fluidity of the situation precludes any specific prediction as to its ultimate impact on us. However, if the pandemic continues to spread or otherwise result in a continuation or worsening of the current economic and commercial environments, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and many of the risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 will be heightened. 

