Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to Charles Schwab Corporation, as per your instructions:

```
Even the top executives at Charles Schwab will admit 2023 has been a trying year.
The largest publicly traded U.S. brokerage just laid off roughly 2,000 employees. An integration of customers
from Schwab's acquisition of TD Ameritrade has been less than smooth for many clients. Widespread
concerns about bank-deposit flight sent Schwab shares tumbling this spring -- and the stock has yet to
recover.                                                                
"We know this has been a challenging year, and that today was hard," Chief Executive Walt Bettinger and
President Rick Wurster said in an internal message seen by The Wall Street Journal about the layoffs.
Schwab is among the worst-performing financial stocks in the S&P 500 in 2023. Shares are down 33%,
compared with the index's 14% rise and the S&P 500 financial sector's 1.5% decline.
The stock dropped sharply in March when the collapse of several regional banks spooked investors worried
about the impact of rising interest rates on deposits.                  
                                                                  
For most of the past decade, customers were generally content parking their cash at banks despite getting
little yield in return. There just weren't many alternatives. When the Federal Reserve started raising interest
rates rapidly in 2022, people had incentive to shift their idle cash into assets, such as money-market funds,
with robust payouts and little risk.                                    
Bank deposits at Schwab have fallen for six consecutive quarters. Most of Schwab's deposits are gathered by
its brokerage arm, where the firm sweeps investors' cash into its banking unit.
When deposits flee, banks often have to turn to more expensive sources of funding. Schwab earlier this year
borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank and issued certificates of deposit.
Investors also were concerned about Schwab's bondholdings. Schwab and other banks tied up chunks of
their balance sheets in longer-term bonds when rates were low. When rates rose, the value of those bonds
fell.                                                                   
                                                                  
"They've had to bear the brunt of high-cost funding, without the benefit of getting the higher yields on their
assets," said Devin Ryan, director of financial-technology research at Citizens JMP Securities.
Ryan has an "outperform" rating on the stock, believing Schwab's outlook is improving as the movement of
cash into higher-yield assets nears an end.                             
In its latest quarterly report, Schwab said the pace of client cash leaving its bank has eased, even though
interest rates continued to rise in the third quarter. The firm has said client cash leaving the bank has largely
stayed at Schwab, and bank sweep deposits increased month over month in September for the first time
since March 2022.                                                       
Revenue and profit at Schwab have fallen for four straight quarters. Net interest revenue -- the difference
between what the bank makes from interest and what it pays in interest -- comprises the largest portion of
Schwab's revenue and declined for three consecutive quarters.           
                                                                  
Meanwhile, trading lost some of its shine for everyday investors, pressuring the company's brokerage arm.
Clients' daily average trades in the third quarter fell to their lowest level since Schwab acquired TD
Ameritrade in 2020.                                                     
Schwab's integration of TD Ameritrade has hit snags, too. Over Labor Day weekend, the company converted
millions of individual-investor and investment-adviser customers from TD Ameritrade to Schwab accounts.
                                                                  
Ahead of the transition, clients from TD Ameritrade pulled a net $23.2 billion of assets in August, the
company reported.                                                       
Although Schwab has called the integration a "tremendous success," some clients complained about its
platforms and wish they could have their TD Ameritrade account back.    
Schwab told investors over the summer it planned to save $500 million a year by reducing its office spaces
and trimming head count.                                                
                                                                  
Those plans came to fruition last week when the company gave pink slips to 5% to 6% of its workforce, which
totaled nearly 36,000 at the end of September.                          
"There are no additional meaningful position eliminations under consideration at this point in time," Bettinger
said in a video to employees Wednesday, a transcript of which was seen by the Journal. "Circumstances can
change, but there is nothing in the works at this point."               
```

I've removed all titles, headers, footers, page numbers, copyright notices, and other metadata while preserving the main article content about Charles Schwab Corporation. The text starts and ends with ``` as requested.