```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2023_Q4

          Business News: Consumers Add To Credit-Card Debt As Savings Dwindle --- Big banks say people are taking
          longer to pay off their balances ................................................................................................................................ 2
          Dimon, in Shift, Looks to European Consumers ...................................................................................................... 5

          Business News: Consumers Add To Credit-Card Debt As Savings Dwindle --- Big banks say people
          are taking longer to pay off their balances                             
          U.S. consumers continue to burn through their pandemic savings and are taking on more debt, as they face
          high prices on everything from food and housing to entertainment.       
          Marianne Lake, co-chief executive of JPMorgan Chase's consumer bank, said at a December conference that
          before the pandemic, the bank's lowest-income clients had on average 12 days' worth of cash on hand.
          Today, that average is around 15 days, meaning consumers are close to spending down money they socked
          away during the pandemic.                                               
          "We're still on that journey, but getting closer to the end," said Lake.
                                                                                  
          For many consumers, maintaining their lifestyles while grappling with inflation and rate increases means
          relying more on credit cards and other products.                        
          Some are loading up on installment loans offered by buy now, pay later players as grocery bills remain
          elevated and mortgage rates sit at around 7%.                           
          Credit-card spending was up in the third quarter at major banks, including 9% at JPMorgan Chase, the
          nation's largest bank, and 15% at Wells Fargo.                          
                                                                                  
          Meanwhile, credit-card loans, or unpaid balances on accounts, jumped nearly 16% in the quarter at
          JPMorgan compared with a year ago, which means consumers are taking longer to pay their bills. Credit-card
          loans jumped 14% at Wells Fargo and 11% at Citigroup.                   
          When JPMorgan reported its third-quarter earnings in October, CEO Jamie Dimon said that while consumers'
          financial pictures remain generally healthy, it is clear they are spending their savings. Deposits dropped 3%
          compared with a year ago in JPMorgan's consumer segment.                

          Dimon, in Shift, Looks to European Consumers                            
          LONDON -- Not long ago, JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon insisted the Wall Street giant
          would never get into retail banking in Europe.                          
          Now, he is all in.                                                      
          Chase is preparing to launch a digital-only consumer bank in the first of several European countries in the
          next two years, said Sanoke Viswanathan, the bank's global strategy chief. It is also expanding its fledgling
          retail operations in the U.K., established two years ago as a beachhead for the region.
          The goal, Viswanathan said, is to gain tens of millions of new customers and tens of billions of dollars in
          deposits.                                                               
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan is plowing into international retail banking, while other big banks such as Citigroup and HSBC
          Holdings are retrenching. It is counting on its brand and the rise of digital banking -- which has made it
          easier for households to switch banks -- to grab a share of some of the globe's biggest consumer markets.
          "The world is wide open," Viswanathan said.                             
          Inside JPMorgan, the move has had skeptics. Senior executives questioned an expensive expansion that
          would burn cash for years and openly wondered if it would last long, people familiar with the matter said.
          Some think there is more room to run in the U.S., where it has successfully expanded its branch network into
          new states, booking good returns.                                       
          The U.K. venture has been losing roughly $450 million a year.           
                                                                                  
          Under Dimon, JPMorgan, the top U.S. retail bank, long resisted entering foreign markets given the cost of
          leasing and staffing brick-and-mortar branches.                         
                                                                                  
          "On the retail side, we've always said we're not going to go retail overseas," Dimon said at a conference in
          2018. "You'll be losing money pretty much the rest of your life."       
          What changed Dimon's mind? Digital banking, which has slashed the cost of entering new markets.
                                                                                  
          Eight in 10 Chase customers in the U.S. use digital banking. By 2018 the company began studying other
          markets to expand in digital banking, including in Latin America, Europe and the U.K.
          In 2021, it bought a 40% stake in Brazilian startup digital lender C6 Bank. In the U.K. that year, it bought
          digital wealth manager Nutmeg Saving and Investment and launched Chase digital banking, initially offering
          checking accounts through an app.                                       
          Chase and Nutmeg combined have over 2 million U.K. customers, GBP 15 billion (equivalent to $18 billion) in
          deposits and GBP 5 billion in assets under management.                  
          Viswanathan said Chase U.K. has focused on signing up customers on the app and will offer credit cards
          over the next year, followed shortly thereafter by personal loans -- products that will generate income. The
          bank hasn't decided whether to offer mortgages.                         
```