 Item 1. Business 

Regions Financial Corporation is a FHC headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama operating in the South, Midwest and Texas. In addition, Regions operates several offices delivering specialty capabilities in New York, Washington D.C., Chicago and other locations nationwide. Regions provides financial solutions for a wide range of clients including retail and mortgage banking services, commercial banking services and wealth and investment services. Further, Regions and its subsidiaries deliver other financial services capabilities described below. At December 31, 2023, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $152.2 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately $127.8 billion and total consolidated shareholders&#8217; equity of approximately $17.4 billion. 

The terms &#8220;Regions,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; as used herein mean collectively Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries when or where appropriate. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667. 

Banking Operations 

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2023, Regions operated 2,023 ATMs and 1,271 total branch outlets primarily across the South, Midwest and Texas. 

The following table reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations. 

##TABLE_START &#160; Branches Florida 272 Tennessee 198 Alabama 186 Georgia 117 Mississippi 99 Texas 90 Louisiana 82 Arkansas 57 Missouri 49 Illinois 41 Indiana 40 South Carolina 18 Kentucky 9 North Carolina 7 Iowa 5 Utah 1 Total 1,271 ##TABLE_END

Other Financial Services Operations 

In addition to its banking operations, Regions and its subsidiaries deliver specialty capabilities including merger and acquisition advisory services, capital markets solutions, home improvement lending, investment services, equipment financing for commercial clients and small business customers, low income housing tax credit corporate fund syndication and asset management, financing to CRA-qualified customers, investments and insurance products, broker-dealer services to commercial clients, and others. 

Supervision and Regulation 

We are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC&#8217;s DIF and the banking system as a whole, and is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Regions and its subsidiaries. Regions cannot predict future changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, including 

any changes resulting from changes in the U.S. presidential administration. Yet, such changes may have a material impact on Regions&#8217; business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which Regions is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including the failure of U.S. depository institutions in the first half of 2023, technological factors, market changes, climate change concerns, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal banking regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Regions expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Regions is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Overview 

As a BHC, Regions is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to regulation, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Regions has elected to be treated as an FHC which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC. The BHC Act provides for &#8220;umbrella&#8221; regulation of FHCs by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act also requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a BHC, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary. 

Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Its operations are generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department. Regions Bank is also affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it implements monetary policy. As a Federal Reserve System member bank, Regions Bank is required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in an amount equal to six percent of its capital stock and surplus. Member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Regions Bank, receive a floating rate dividend tied to 10-year U.S. Treasuries, with the maximum dividend rate capped at six percent. 

Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. 

Regions and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NYSE. Regions Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Examinations by Regions&#8217; regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, interest rate risk management and various other factors. Following those examinations, Regions and Regions Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of Regions&#8217; operations. 

Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered &#8220;well managed&#8221; under this rating system, a firm must be rated &#8220;broadly meets expectations&#8221; or &#8220;conditionally meets expectations&#8221; for each of its three component ratings. 

The results of examinations by any of Regions&#8217; federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Regions&#8217; activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and non-monetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

As a BHC with over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, we are subject to enhanced prudential standards and capital rules (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). The Tailoring Rules assign each U.S. BHC with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, 

as well as its bank subsidiaries, to one of four categories based on its size and five other risk-based indicators: (1) cross-jurisdictional activity, (2) wSTWF, (3) non-bank assets, (4) off-balance sheet exposure and (5) status as a U.S. G-SIB. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to Category IV standards, which apply to banking organizations with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets that do not meet any of the thresholds specified for Categories I through III. Firms subject to Category IV standards are generally subject to the same capital and liquidity requirements as firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, but are, among other things, subject to certain enhanced prudential standards and also required to monitor and report certain risk-based indicators. Accordingly, under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms are, among other things, (1) not subject to LCR or NSFR requirements (or, in certain cases, subject to reduced requirements), (2) remain eligible to opt-out of the requirement to recognize most elements of AOCI in regulatory capital, (3) not subject to company-run capital stress testing requirements, (4) subject to supervisory capital stress testing on a biennial instead of annual basis, (5) subject to requirements to develop and maintain a capital plan on an annual basis and (6) subject to certain liquidity risk management and risk committee requirements. 

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act 

The BHC Act limits the activities permissible for BHCs to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incidental thereto. A BHC electing to be treated as a FHC, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments. 

The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit an FHC&#8217;s ability to conduct otherwise permissible activities if the FHC or any of its depository institution subsidiaries ceases to meet applicable eligibility requirements. The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the FHC, and if deficiencies are persistent, may require the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may be required to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a BHC electing to be treated as an FHC. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that an FHC has not maintained a CRA rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

The Federal Reserve has the power to order any BHC or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the BHC. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, which are based on the Basel III framework. 

The Basel III-based U.S. capital rules, among other things, include both risk-based requirements, which compare three measures of capital to RWAs, as well as leverage requirements, which in the case of Category IV banking organizations such as Regions, consist of the Tier 1 leverage ratio described below. 

The capital rules also require firms to maintain a buffer (referred to as the SCB) consisting of solely CET1 capital, in addition to the minimum risk-based requirements. Failure to satisfy the buffer requirement in full results in graduated constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, and discretionary executive compensation. The extent to which capital distributions will be constrained depends on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income,&#8221; which is defined as the greater of (1) a banking institution&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions to shareholders and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (2) the average of a banking institution&#8217;s net income over the preceding four quarters. As a Category IV banking organization, Regions&#8217; SCB is determined through the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR supervisory stress tests which include analyses using baseline and severely adverse economic and financial scenarios. Regions&#8217; SCB requirement is determined by adding the Federal Reserve&#8217;s modeled capital degradation, in the supervisory severely adverse scenario, plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends. As a Category IV banking organization, the capital degradation component of the SCB is calculated every other year, in even-numbered years. During a year in which a Category IV banking organization does not undergo a supervisory stress test, it will receive an updated SCB requirement that reflects its updated planned common stock dividends. A Category IV banking organization is also able to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test in a year in which it would not normally be subject to the supervisory stress test and consequently receive an updated SCB requirement. The SCB is subject to a 2.5 percent floor. 

While Regions was not required to participate in 2023 supervisory stress testing, the Company did receive its SCB reflecting planned capital changes including plans to increase its common stock dividend. For the fourth quarter of 2023 

through the third quarter of 2024, the SCB continues to be floored at 2.5 percent, the regulatory minimum. For Regions Bank, the buffer requirement is the 2.5 percent SCB. 

See Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" in Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details on minimum capital ratios and those needed to be well capitalized. 

Regions is also subject to rules that provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 

As a Category IV banking organization, Regions must also develop and maintain a capital plan, and must submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of the CCAR process. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company&#8217;s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. In addition, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule relating to the CCAR process provides that a BHC must receive prior approval for any dividend, stock repurchase or other capital distribution if the BHC is required to resubmit its capital plan, subject to an exception for distributions on newly issued capital instruments. Among other circumstances, a BHC may be required to resubmit its capital plan in connection with certain acquisitions or dispositions. 

In 2020, the U.S. federal banking agencies published a final rule to delay the estimated impact on regulatory capital stemming from the implementation of CECL. The final rule provides banks the option to delay for two years an estimate of CECL&#8217;s effect on regulatory capital, relative to the incurred loss methodology&#8217;s effect on regulatory capital, followed by a three-year transition period (five-year transition option). Regions adopted the capital transition relief over the permissible five-year period. 

In July 2023, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal to revise the risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions, which generally aligns with the global Basel Accord. The proposal would introduce a new measure of risk-weighted assets, which would reflect the proposed new standardized approaches for credit risk, operational risk and credit valuation adjustment risk, as well as a proposed new measure for market risk that would be based on both internal models and standardized supervisory models of market risk. For Category III and IV institutions, this includes removing the AOCI opt-out in calculating regulatory capital. The proposed effective date is July 1, 2025, subject to a three-year transition period ending July 1, 2028, over which the expanded total risk-weighted assets would be phased in. The Company will continue to evaluate this proposal, as well as any potential future changes to the proposal, and the potential impacts on Regions. 

In August 2023, the U.S. banking regulators proposed a rule that would require banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets to comply with long-term debt requirements and clean holding company requirements that currently apply only to global systemically important banking organizations. This proposal would also impose a long-term debt requirement on certain categories of IDIs, including IDIs with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as Regions Bank. If adopted, this proposal would require the Company and Regions Bank to each maintain a minimum outstanding eligible long-term debt amount of no less than the greatest of (i) 6% of risk-weighted assets, (ii) 2.5% of total leverage exposure and (iii) 3.5% of average total consolidated assets. Regions Bank would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt to the Company, and the Company would be required to issue the minimum amount of eligible long-term debt externally. In addition, if adopted as proposed, the clean holding company requirement would limit or prohibit the Company from entering into certain transactions that could impede its orderly resolution, including, for example, prohibiting the Company from entering into transactions that could spread losses to subsidiaries and third parties, as well as limiting the amount of the Company&#8217;s liabilities that are not eligible long-term. This proposal is subject to a comment period. The Company will continue to evaluate this proposal and the potential impacts, if adopted as proposed. 

For more information, see the &#8220;Regulatory Requirements&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms with less than $50 billion in wSTWF, including Regions and Regions Bank, are not subject to a LCR requirement or any NSFR requirement. However, BHCs that are Category IV firms are subject to minimum monthly liquidity buffers and liquidity stress testing requirements under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards. Furthermore, as a Category IV firm, Regions is obligated, at a minimum, to: (i) calculate collateral positions monthly; (ii) establish a more limited set of liquidity risk limits; (iii) monitor elements of intraday liquidity risk exposures; and (iv) report liquidity data on the FR 2052a on a monthly basis. 

Resolution Planning 

Category IV firms such as Regions are not required to submit 165(d) resolution plans. The FDIC separately requires insured depositary institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as Regions Bank, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the bank&#8217;s failure. Regions Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan in November 2022. 

In August 2023, the FDIC issued a proposal to amend its rules requiring covered IDIs, including Regions Bank, to periodically submit resolution plans to the FDIC. If adopted as proposed, Regions Bank would be required to submit a full resolution plan to the FDIC every two years and submit an interim supplement in each year that it is not required to submit a full resolution plan. In addition, this proposal would increase the content requirements for plan submissions and introduce a new credibility standard for the FDIC&#8217;s evaluation of resolution plans, which would be enforceable against the covered IDIs. 

Enforcement Authority 

The federal banking agencies have broad authority to issue orders to depository institutions and their holding companies prohibiting activities that constitute violations of law, rule, regulation or administrative order, or that represent unsafe or unsound banking practices, as determined by the federal banking agencies. The federal banking agencies also are empowered to require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; direct increases in capital; limit dividends and distributions; restrict growth; assess civil money penalties against institutions or individuals who violate any laws, regulations, orders or written agreements with the agencies; order termination of certain activities of holding companies or their non-bank subsidiaries; remove officers and directors; order divestiture of ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary by a holding company; or terminate deposit insurance and appoint a conservator or receiver. 

FDIA and Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (&#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2023, both Regions and Regions Bank were well-capitalized. 

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be treated as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. 

The FDIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. Regulators also must take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution&#8217;s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance sheet position); and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital. Regulators make this evaluation as a part of their regular examination of the institution&#8217;s safety and soundness. Additionally, regulators may choose to examine other factors in order to evaluate the safety and soundness of financial institutions. 

Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies have adopted a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, informational security, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice, and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. 

Properly managing risks is critical to the conduct of safe and sound banking activities and has become even more important as new technologies, product innovation and the size and speed of financial transactions have changed the nature of 

banking markets. The agencies have identified a spectrum of risks facing banking institutions including, but not limited to, credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, compliance and reputational risk. Some of the regulatory pronouncements have focused on operational risk, which arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. New products and services, third-party risk management and cybersecurity are critical sources of operational risk that financial institutions are expected to address in the current environment. Regions Bank is expected to have active board and senior management oversight; adequate policies, procedures and limits; adequate risk measurement, monitoring and management information systems; and comprehensive and effective internal controls. 

Payment of Dividends 

Regions is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to us, including cash flow to pay dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest on any of our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our shareholders. 

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See &#8220;Safety and Soundness Standards&#8221; above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that BHCs and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank . Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. 

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings unless its surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions . Payment of dividends to our shareholders is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large BHC, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and may be constrained in certain scenarios. See &#8220;Capital Requirements&#8221; above. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. 

Limits on Exposure to One Borrower and Exposure to Insiders 

Alabama banking law imposes limits on the amount of credit a bank can extend to any one person (or group of related persons). For Regions Bank, this limit includes credit exposures arising from loan and equivalent exposure and investment and trading exposure. 

Applicable banking laws and regulations also place restrictions on loans by FDIC-insured banks and their affiliates to their directors, executive officers and principal shareholders. 

Lending Standards and Guidance 

The federal banking agencies have adopted uniform regulations prescribing standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. Under these regulations, all IDIs, such as Regions Bank, must adopt and maintain written policies establishing appropriate limits and standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. These policies must establish loan portfolio diversification standards, prudent underwriting standards (including loan-to-value limits) that are clear and measurable, loan administration procedures and 

documentation, approval and reporting requirements. The real estate lending policies must reflect consideration of the federal bank regulators&#8217; Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies. 

De Novo Branching and De Novo Banks 

With the approval of applicable regulators, state banks may establish de novo branches in states other than their home state as if such state was the bank&#8217;s home state. 

Anti-Tying Provisions 

Regions Bank is prohibited from conditioning the availability of any product or service, or varying the price for any product or service, on the requirement that the customer obtain some additional product or service from the bank or any of its affiliates, other than loans, deposits and trust services. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including a parent BHC. Regions Bank is subject to these restrictions, which include quantitative and qualitative limits on the amounts and types of transactions that may take place, including extensions of credit to affiliates, investments in the stock or securities of affiliates, purchases of assets from affiliates and certain other transactions with affiliates. These restrictions also require that credit transactions with affiliates be collateralized and that transactions with affiliates be on market terms or better for the bank. Generally, a bank&#8217;s covered transactions with any affiliate are limited to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus and covered transactions with all affiliates are limited to 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus. 

Deposit Insurance 

Regions Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

The FDIC, as required under the FDIA, established a plan in September 2020 to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed the statutory minimum of 1.35 percent within eight years. This plan did not include an increase in the deposit insurance assessment rate. Based on the FDIC&#8217;s recent projections, however, the FDIC determined that the DIF reserve ratio is at risk of not reaching the statutory minimum by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028 without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates. 

During 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules by 2 basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. This rule, combined with other factors influenced by Regions&#8217; financial performance, increased regulatory premiums in 2023. The FDIC also concurrently maintained the Designated Reserve Ratio for the DIF at 2 percent. 

In November 2023, the FDIC issued a final rule to implement a special assessment to recoup losses to the DIF associated with bank failures in the first half of 2023. Under the rule, the assessment base for the special assessment is equal to an IDI&#8217;s estimated uninsured deposits reported as of December 31, 2022, adjusted to exclude the first $5 billion of uninsured deposits. The special assessment for Regions is estimated at approximately $119 million, was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2023 and will be paid in eight quarterly installments beginning in the first quarter of 2024. For more details on the special assessment, see the &#8220;Non-Interest Expense&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

As a part of the FDIC Part 370 recordkeeping requirements, Regions is subject to facilitate rapid and accurate payment of FDIC-insured deposits to customers when large IDIs fail. FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. 

Acquisitions 

The BHC Act requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (i) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (ii) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (iii) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. FHCs must obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain 

non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion. FHCs seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed. 

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the U.S., or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the BHCs and banks impacted and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and the consideration of convenience and needs of the community to be served includes the parties&#8217; performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions&#8217; effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system. 

In July 2021, the Biden Administration issued an executive order on competition, which included provisions relating to bank mergers. These provisions &#8220;encourage&#8221; the Department of Justice and the federal banking regulators to update guidelines on banking mergers and to provide more scrutiny of bank mergers. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, claims of depositors and certain claims for both administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of such an institution by any receiver. 

Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be considered an investment company for purposes of the Volcker Rule. The compliance requirements under regulations implementing the Volcker Rule are tailored based on the size and scope of trading activities. Because TAL are maintained under $1 billion, Regions is categorized with "limited" TAL and benefits from a presumption of compliance with the Volcker Rule. Regions has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds. 

Consumer Protection Laws 

We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Consumer Financial Protection Act and their respective state law counterparts. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, other fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to consumer financial laws for depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Regions or Regions Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Regions receives, alter the way Regions provides its products and services or expose Regions to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. 

Privacy and Cybersecurity 

We are, or may in the future become, subject to a variety of complex and evolving laws, regulations, rules and standards at the federal, state and local level regarding privacy and cybersecurity. Privacy and cybersecurity are currently areas of considerable legislative and regulatory attention, with new or modified laws, regulations, rules and standards being frequently adopted and potentially subject to divergent interpretation or application in a manner that may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements for businesses. Privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations often impose strict requirements regarding the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, protection and other processing of personal information, which may have adverse consequences on our business, including incurring significant compliance costs, requiring changes to our business or operations and imposing severe penalties for non-compliance. 

For example, at the federal level, the federal banking regulators have adopted certain rules, including pursuant to the GLBA, that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public personal information about consumers to third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain non-public personal information to non-affiliated third parties. In addition, 

consumers may also prevent disclosure among affiliated companies of certain non-public personal information that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and application information. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share certain information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. 

Federal law also requires financial institutions to implement a written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The program should be designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against unanticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Financial institutions must also conduct ongoing oversight of third-party service providers to ensure they are maintaining appropriate security controls. Financial institutions must report on the institution&#8217;s cybersecurity program annually to the board of directors or a committee of the board of directors. The federal banking regulators regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management standards among financial institutions. A financial institution is expected to establish multiple lines of defense against security threats and to ensure their risk management processes appropriately address the risk posed by potential threats to the institution. A financial institution&#8217;s management is expected to maintain sufficient processes to effectively identify, prevent and detect a cyber-attack. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations if a critical service provider of the institution falls victim to cyber-attack. The Regions Information Security Program is designed to reflect the requirements of these regulatory requirements and guidance. 

In addition, in the spring of 2022, federal banking regulators have imposed a new cybersecurity-related notification rule that requires banking organizations, including Regions and Regions Bank to notify their primary federal regulator as soon as possible and within 36 hours of incidents that, among other things, have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations of the banking organization or impact the stability of the financial sector. The rule also imposes requirements on bank service providers to notify their affected banking organization customers of certain computer-security incidents. Further, in 2023, the SEC issued regulations requiring public companies to disclose certain information regarding material cybersecurity incidents impacting those companies, as well as descriptions about how they manage material cybersecurity risks. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations, rules and standards. Several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and have provided detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also implemented or are considering implementing, comprehensive data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations, such as the CCPA. In addition, laws in all 50 U.S. states generally require businesses to provide notice under certain circumstances to individuals whose personal information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. We expect this trend of state-level activity to persist and we are continually monitoring developments in the states in which our customers are located. Moreover, the United States Congress has considered, and is currently considering, various proposals for more comprehensive data privacy and cybersecurity legislation, to which Regions and/or Regions Bank may be subject to if passed. 

In October 2023, the CFPB proposed a rule to implement Section 1033 of the Dodd-Frank Act, sometimes referred to as the Dodd-Frank Act's "open banking" provision, which would require certain entities, including Regions and Regions Bank, to comply with an established framework to govern consumer access to electronic financial data. The Company continues to monitor this proposal and evaluate the potential impacts, if adopted as proposed or otherwise, on Regions and Regions Bank. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires Regions Bank&#8217;s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the Federal Reserve, to assess the bank&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: &#8220;Outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;Satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;Needs to Improve&#8221; or &#8220;Substantial Noncompliance.&#8221; This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the Federal Reserve in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application. Regions Bank&#8217;s most recent CRA rating from the Federal Reserve was &#8220;Satisfactory.&#8221; 

In October 2023, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC issued a final rule to amend their regulations implementing the CRA. The rule materially revises the current CRA framework, including the assessments areas in which a bank is evaluated to include activities associated with online and mobile banking, the tests used to evaluate the bank in its assessment areas, new methods of calculating credit for lending, investment and service activities and additional data collection and reporting requirements. The rule is expected to result in a significant increase in the thresholds for large banks to receive &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; ratings in the future. The rule is expected to take effect on April 1, 2024, with most of the provisions becoming applicable on January 1, 2026. Reporting of the collected data will not be required until 2027. 

Compensation Practices 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. The federal banking regulators have provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

A continued focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Regions Bank is subject to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of the BSA. The BSA requires financial institutions to, among other things, establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with BSA regulatory requirements. The USA PATRIOT Act, which amended the BSA, broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes internal policies, procedures and internal controls, the designation of a chief compliance officer, as well as training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain due diligence on private bank accounts and due diligence on and verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. A financial institution's failure to comply with the BSA could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions Bank has continued to augment its anti-money laundering compliance program to comply with the BSA and its implementing regulations and will continue to revise and update its anti-money laundering policies, procedures and controls to reflect future regulatory changes. The AMLA, which amends the BSA, was enacted in January 2021. Among other things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance for financial institutions; requires the development of standards by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for evaluating technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; and expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority, including a significant expansion in the available sanctions for certain BSA violations. Many of the statutory provisions in the AMLA will require additional rulemaking, reports and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend on, among other things, implementation guidance. 

As required by AMLA, in June 2021, FinCEN, which promulgates the implementing regulations of the USA PATRIOT Act, BSA, and other anti-money laundering legislation, issued the national anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism priorities. The priorities include: corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and proliferation financing. Banks are not required to implement any immediate changes related to the national priorities to their anti-money laundering compliance programs until FinCEN issues the implementing regulations related to the national priorities. Bank regulators continue to examine financial institutions for anti-money laundering compliance and Regions Bank will continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance framework, including the anti-money laundering program, policies and procedures of Regions Bank to ensure that it is commensurate with our risk profile. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, organizations, regimes and other entities. In the United States, economic sanctions are administered by OFAC. OFAC publishes lists of specially designated targets, issues regulations and implements executive orders that restrict dealings with certain countries and territories. Territorial sanctions, which target certain countries, regions and territories, take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property within U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). OFAC also administers sanctions lists that have various associated prohibitions, including the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List. U.S. persons are prohibited 

from dealing with Specially Designated Nationals regardless of location, and all assets of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons are blocked. Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a general or specific license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Regulation of Broker Dealers and Investment Advisers 

Our subsidiaries, Regions Securities LLC and BlackArch Securities LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and FINRA, and Regions Investment Management, Inc. and Highland Associates, Inc. are registered investment advisers with the SEC. These subsidiaries are, as a result, subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

Competition 

All aspects of our business are highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, fintechs, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. We expect competition to remain intense among financial services companies. Our success will depend, in part, on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Further, despite delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, we expect consolidation in the financial services industry to continue, which may produce larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer traditional bank or bank-like products and services and therefore compete with financial institutions like us in providing electronic, internet-based and mobile phone-based financial solutions. In particular, the activity of fintechs has grown significantly over recent years and is expected to continue to grow. A number of fintechs have applied for, and in some cases been granted, bank or industrial loan charters, while other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. In addition to fintechs, traditional technology companies have begun to make efforts toward providing financial services directly to their customers. Regions provides an array of digital products and services to our customers and we expect a bank&#8217;s digital offerings to be a key competitive differentiator. The continued move toward digital banking and financial services, combined with customer expectations regarding digital offerings, will require us to invest greater resources in technological improvements. Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by our subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, price of service, personal contacts, the quality of the technology that supports the customer experience and availability of products. Although our position varies in different markets, we believe that our affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. 

Human Capital 

One pillar of our strategic priorities at Regions is the commitment to &#8220;Build the Best Team&#8221;. We believe one of the biggest differentiators of our performance is the people we employ. The need to attract, retain and develop the right talent to accomplish our strategic plan is central to our success. As of December 31, 2023, Regions and its subsidiaries had 20,101 full-time equivalent employees supporting our consumer and commercial banking, wealth management and mortgage product and services primarily across the Southeast and Midwest. 

Our associate team reflects the diversity of the communities we serve. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 62 percent of our associates were women and approximately 38 percent self-identified as a part of a minority demographic. Because diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental to our human capital strategy, we believe it is important for our stakeholders to understand our progress, and therefore, we provided additional transparency into our workforce demographics by disclosing 2022 EEO-1 results on our 2022 Workforce Demographics Report available in our online ESG Resource Center. 

A strong and impactful human capital program begins at the top. Our Board oversees our corporate strategy and sets the tone for our culture, values and high ethical standards, and through its Committees, holds management accountable for results. The primary committee responsible for the oversight of human capital is the CHR Committee. The CHR Committee strategically meets with subject matter experts regarding talent management and acquisition, succession planning, associate conduct, associate learning and development, diversity, equity, and inclusion, and associate retention. Additionally, on a quarterly basis the CHR Committee reviews the HCM Dashboard which includes a mixture of trending and point-in-time metrics designed to provide information and analysis of workforce demographics; talent acquisition; workforce stability (retention, turnover, etc.); and associate conduct and engagement. 

In order to build the best team, it is necessary for us to fill talent needs with qualified, diverse and engaged associates. Key to our success is our internal talent management program which strives to optimally deploy existing talent across Regions by focusing on where our associates excel and helping them find the best roles that maximize their talents, abilities and interests. For those roles which we fill externally, we continually build talent pipelines with an eye toward not only current needs, but also future demands of our business. Regions uses innovative tools and structured processes to achieve our goals including applications and resources designed to reach larger and more diverse audiences. Our recruiting technology is agile, user friendly and allows us to offer to candidates a robust understanding of our needs, requirements and a view of our culture to support the building of a diverse, engaged workforce. 

Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental to our corporate strategy. Our commitment to DEI starts at the top of our organization, with oversight of our initiatives provided by the CHR Committee. Launched in late 2022, the DEI Executive Council continues to provide input and guidance over the DEI strategic priorities, build traction and support of DEI programs and help garner leader support. The council is comprised of five business leaders and four leaders of strategic enabling functions. It is chaired by Regions&#8217; CEO and co-chaired by the Head of DEI. Additionally, Regions boasts 20 unique DEI networks across the company, strategically placed in various markets. These &#8216;all-inclusive&#8217; networks ensure that our DEI priorities are cascaded deeper into the organization giving associates the opportunity to voluntarily engage in the work. We monitor our DEI progress through external benchmarking and internal associate engagement surveys and continually implement programs and practices to elevate our progress and commitment. 

We also consider it critical to our success to invest in the professional development of all of our associates. We emphasize our commitment to professional development through opportunities such as technical, skills-based, management, and leadership training programs; formal talent and performance management processes; and sustainable career paths. We also aim to prepare our workforce for a rapidly changing environment and understand that reskilling and upskilling are crucial to staying competitive, meeting the needs of the modern workforce, and retaining associates. We have established a customized learning experience platform that provides the tools to measure, build, and communicate skills inside the Company. This tool provides the ability to inventory the skills our associates have, allowing us to target our development efforts on specific areas where elevated skills are needed. Regions also offers a leader and manager development program created to help people managers understand how to evaluate performance by leveraging the power of a strengths-based and engagement-focused workforce and culture. Our partnership with Guild Education Services, an education, skilling and mobility solution provider has allowed us to transition our tuition reimbursement program for associates to a best-in-class tuition assistance program that targets adult learners and provides coaching support and access to a curated catalog from Guild&#8217;s Learning Marketplace. Through the Guild program, associates can now pursue a degree or other educational opportunities tuition free while building their career at the same time. By removing barriers and expanding access to education, we are continuing our commitment to Build the Best Team. 

Understanding that automation, cognitive technologies and the open talent economy are reshaping the future of work, Regions makes available to technology associates courses on-demand that offer intensive learning in application development, information technology operations, security and technology architecture. This solution also offers professional development for data and business professionals. In addition, almost all associates may access a full suite of courses regardless of whether the application is needed in their current role. 

We aim to offer competitive and fair compensation to our associates. Base salaries are established considering market competitive rates for specific roles; additionally, on an individual basis base salaries reflect the experience and performance levels of our associates. We assess the competitiveness of our ranges on an annual basis by benchmarking our rates against those paid by our peers. In addition to base salaries, we promote a robust pay-for-performance philosophy and incentivize a large majority of our associate population with incentive compensation designed to drive strategies, behaviors and business goals within our unique lines of business. Long-term stock-based incentive compensation is also key to the attraction and retention of key talent and is offered thoughtfully to our executive and leadership ranks. We believe tying the interests of our leaders to those of our shareholders creates a strong link to company performance. 

As the success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our associates, we aim to offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits program to support associates throughout all life stages. Our benefits include comprehensive health, life, and disability coverage that are funded in whole or in part by the Company as well as a 401(k) plan with a dollar-for-dollar company match on employee contributions up to 5 percent of pay and a base contribution of 2 percent of pay for all associates who do not participate in our grandfathered pension program. We also offer our associates programs and tools to support their total well-being including a range of flexible work arrangements, generous time-off policies, physical, mental and financial wellness benefits as well as other programs and practices that support associates and their families throughout the full spectrum of their careers and lives. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at ir.regions.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Form DEF 14A, and current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934. These documents are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including Regions. Also available on our website are our (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Fair Disclosure Policy, (v) the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Risk Committee, Technology Committee, and Executive Committee, and (vi) a number of ESG reports and documents. Information included on our website is not incorporated into, or otherwise made a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

