Market risk management
Market risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from changes in the market value of portfolios, securities, or other
financial instruments. Market risk results from changes in the level, volatility or correlations among financial market rates or prices, including
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices or other relevant rates or prices.
Effective management of market risk is essential to achieving Truist's strategic financial objectives. Truist's most significant market risk
exposure is to interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also results from product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk in
Truist's BUs. Interest rate risk results from differences between the timing of rate changes and the timing of cash flows (re-pricing risk); from
changing rate relationships among different yield curves affecting bank activities (basis risk); from changing rate relationships across the
spectrum of maturities (yield curve risk); and from interest-related options embedded in bank products (options risk).
The primary objectives of market risk management are to minimize adverse effects from changes in market risk factors on net interest income,
net income and capital and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. At Truist, market risk
management also includes the enterprise-wide IPV function.
Interest rate market risk (other than trading)
As a financial institution, Truist is exposed to interest rate risk both on its assets and on its liabilities. Since interest rate changes are out of the
control of any private sector institution, Truist actively manages its interest rate risk with the strategic repricing of its assets and liabilities, taking
into account the volumes, maturities and mix, with the goal of keeping net interest margin as stable as possible. Truist primarily uses three
methods to measure and monitor its interest rate risk: (i) a model that simulates possible changes to net interest income over the next two
years based on a set of assumptions; (ii) an analysis of interest rate shock scenarios; and (iii) a model that analyzes the economic value of
equity based on changes in interest rates.
The simulation model takes into account assumptions about prepayment trends, using a combination of market data and internal historical
experiences for deposits and loans, as well as scheduled maturities and payments and the likely outlook for the economy and interest rates.
These assumptions are reviewed and adjusted monthly to reflect changes in market interest rates as compared to the rates of Truist’s assets
and liabilities. The model also considers Truist's current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth,
accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance.
Deposit betas are an important assumption in the interest rate risk modeling process. Truist applies an average deposit beta (the difference
between rates Truist pays and market rates) of approximately 60% to its non-maturity interest-bearing deposit accounts for determining its
interest rate sensitivity. Non-maturity, interest-bearing deposit accounts include interest checking accounts, savings accounts and money
market accounts that do not have a contractual maturity. Truist also regularly conducts sensitivity analyses on other key variables, including
noninterest-bearing deposits, to determine the impact they could have on the interest rate risk position. The predictive value of the simulation
model depends upon the accuracy of the assumptions, but management believes that it provides helpful data for the management of interest
rate risk.
64 Truist Financial Corporation
The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next
twelve months assuming a gradual change in interest rates as described below. The decrease in rate sensitivity versus the prior period is
related to the Merger, alignment of modeling assumptions and recent balance sheet restructuring activities.
Table 26: Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis
Interest Rate Scenario Annualized Hypothetical Percentage Change in Net
Interest Income Linear Change in Prime
Rate (bps)
Prime Rate
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Up 100 5.75 % 6.50 % 0.95 % 1.22 %
Up 50 5.25 6.00 0.75 0.65
No Change 4.75 5.50 — —
Down 50 4.25 5.00 (1.18) (1.30)
Down 100 3.75 4.50 (1.72) (3.17)
Truist has established parameters related to interest rate sensitivity measures that prescribe a maximum impact on net interest income under
different interest rate scenarios that would result in an escalation to the Board. The following parameters and interest rate scenarios are
considered Truist's primary measures of interest rate risk:
• Maximum impact on net interest income of 7.5% for the next 12 months assuming a 25 basis point change in interest rates each
quarter for four quarters; and a
• Maximum impact on net interest income of 10% for an immediate 100 basis point parallel change in rates.
This interest rate shock analysis is designed to create an outer bound of acceptable interest rate risk.
Truist also uses an EVE analysis to focus on longer-term projected changes in asset and liability values given potential changes in interest
rates. This measure allows Truist to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the simulation model parameters. The EVE model is a
discounted cash flow of the portfolio of assets, liabilities and derivative instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the
present value of liabilities is defined as EVE.
The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE:
Table 27: EVE Simulation Analysis
Change in Interest Rates
(bps)
Hypothetical Percentage Change in EVE
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Up 100 (2.9)% (0.7)%
No Change — —
Down 100 (3.0) (6.2)
Truist uses derivatives primarily to manage interest rate risk related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and mortgage banking operations,
long-term debt and other funding sources. Truist also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. As of December 31,
2019, Truist had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $315.9 billion, with a net fair value of $1.7 billion.
See "Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional disclosures.
LIBOR in its current form may no longer be available after 2021. Truist has LIBOR-based contracts that extend beyond 2021. To prepare for the
possible transition to an alternative reference rate, management has formed a cross-functional project team to address the LIBOR transition.
The project team has performed an assessment to identify the potential risks related to the transition from LIBOR to a new index. The project
provides regular reports to the Board and Risk Management Committees.
The project team is reviewing contract fallback language for loans and leases and noted that certain contracts will need updated provisions for
the transition and is coordinating with impacted lines of business to update LIBOR fallback language generally consistent with the ARRC
recommendation. Truist is continuing to evaluate the impact on these contracts and other financial instruments, systems implications, hedging
strategies, and other related operational and market risks. Market risks associated with this change are dependent on the alternative reference
rates available and market conditions at transition. For a further discussion of the various risks associated with the potential cessation of LIBOR
and the transition to alternative reference rates, refer to the section titled "Item 1A. Risk Factors."
Truist Financial Corporation 65
Market risk from trading activities
Truist also manages market risk associated with trading activities. Truist is a financial intermediary that provides its clients access to
derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets. Trading market risk is managed using a comprehensive risk management approach,
which includes measuring risk using VaR, stress testing and sensitivity analysis. Risk metrics are monitored against limits on a daily basis at
both trading desks and at the aggregate portfolio level to ensure exposures are in line with Truist's risk appetite.
Truist is subject to risk-based capital guidelines for market risk under the Market Risk Rule, issued jointly by the OCC, U.S. Treasury FRB and
FDIC.
Covered trading positions
The trading portfolio of covered positions subject to the Market Risk Rule results primarily from market making and underwriting services for our
clients, as well as associated risk mitigating hedging activity. The trading portfolio, measured in terms of VaR, consists primarily of four subportfolios of covered positions: (i) credit trading, (ii) fixed income securities, (iii) interest rate derivatives and (iv) equity derivatives. As a market
maker, Truist’s trading portfolio also contains other sub-portfolios, including foreign exchange rate and commodity derivatives; however, these
portfolios do not generate material trading risk exposures.
Valuation policies, procedures, and methodologies exist for all covered positions. Additionally, trading positions are subject to independent price
verification. See "Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments,” "Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures,” and “Critical Accounting Policies” herein for
discussion of valuation policies, procedures and methodologies.
Securitizations
As of December 31, 2019, the aggregate market value of on-balance sheet securitization positions subject to the Market Risk Rule was $23
million, all of which were non-agency asset backed securities positions. Consistent with the Market Risk Rule requirements, the Company
performs pre-purchase due diligence on each securitization position to identify the characteristics including, but not limited to, deal structure
and the asset quality of the underlying assets, that materially affect valuation and performance. Securitization positions are subject to Truist’s
comprehensive risk management framework, which includes daily monitoring against a full suite of limits. There were no off-balance sheet
securitization positions during the reporting period.
Correlation trading positions
The trading portfolio of covered positions did not contain any correlation trading positions as of December 31, 2019 or 2018.
VaR-based measures
VaR measures the estimated potential loss at a specified confidence level and time horizon. Truist utilizes a historical VaR methodology to
measure and aggregate risks across its covered trading positions. Following the Merger, Truist elected to migrate all covered positions to the
heritage SunTrust VaR system and methodology. For an interim period, VaR for a subset of heritage BB&T positions, specifically those covered
positions held in BB&T Securities, will be calculated using the heritage BB&T VaR system and methodology. As such, pending full integration,
Truist will operate two historical VaR models and aggregate company-wide VaR will be determined additively with no benefit of diversification.
For risk management purposes, the VaR calculation is based on a historical simulation approach and measures the potential trading losses
using a one-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level. For Market Risk Rule purposes, the Company calculates VaR using a 10-
day holding period and a 99% confidence level. Due to inherent limitations of the VaR methodology, such as the assumption that past market
behavior is indicative of future market performance, VaR is only one of several tools used to measure and manage market risk. Other tools
used to actively manage market risk include stress testing, profit and loss attribution, and stop loss limits.
66 Truist Financial Corporation
The trading portfolio’s VaR profile is influenced by a variety of factors, including the size and composition of the portfolio, market volatility and
the correlation between different positions. The following table summarizes certain VaR-based measures. VaR measures at December 31,
2019 reflects the aggregate VaR measure of the Truist trading portfolio. Average VaR measures reflect heritage SunTrust after the Merger.
Table 28: VaR-based Measures
2019 2018
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in millions)
10-Day Holding
Period
1-Day Holding
Period
10-Day Holding
Period
1-Day Holding
Period
VaR-based Measures:
Maximum $ 9 $ 2 $ 2 $ 1
Average 1 1 1 1
Minimum — — — —
Period-end 7 2 1 1
VaR by Risk Class:
Interest Rate Risk 2 1
Credit Spread Risk 3 —
Equity Price Risk 2 —
Foreign Exchange Risk — —
Portfolio Diversification (5) —
Period-end 2 1
Stressed VaR-based measures
Stressed VaR, another component of market risk capital, is calculated using the same internal models as used for the VaR-based measure.
Stressed VaR is calculated over a ten-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level and employs a historical simulation approach
based on a continuous twelve-month historical window selected to reflect a period of significant financial stress for our trading portfolio. The
following table summarizes Stressed VaR-based measures:
Table 29: Stressed VaR-based Measures - 10 Day Holding Period
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Maximum $ 33 $ 7
Average 5 5
Minimum 2 3
Period-end 28 5
Specific risk measures
Specific risk is a measure of idiosyncratic risk that could result from risk factors other than broad market movements (e.g. default, event risks).
The Market Risk Rule provides fixed risk weights under a standardized measurement method while also allowing a model-based approach,
subject to regulatory approval. Truist utilizes the standardized measurement method to calculate the specific risk component of market risk
regulatory capital. As such, incremental risk capital and comprehensive risk measure capital requirements do not apply.
VaR model backtesting
In accordance with the Market Risk Rule, the Company evaluates the accuracy of its VaR model through daily backtesting by comparing
aggregate daily trading gains and losses (excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) from covered
positions with the corresponding daily VaR-based measures generated by the model. The number of company-wide VaR backtesting
exceptions over the preceding twelve months is used to determine the multiplication factor for the VaR-based capital requirement under the
Market Risk Rule. The capital multiplication factor increases from a minimum of three to a maximum of four, depending on the number of
exceptions. There were two company-wide VaR backtesting exceptions during the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. In accordance
with established policy and procedure, all company-wide VaR backtesting exceptions are thoroughly reviewed in the context of VaR model use
and performance. There was no change in the capital multiplication factor over the preceding twelve months.
Truist Financial Corporation 67
Model risk management
Management's approach to the validation and evaluation of the accuracy of Truist's models, and associated processes, includes conceptual
soundness, developmental and implementation testing as well as outcomes analysis, ongoing monitoring and maintenance performed by the
various model developers, in conjunction with model owners.
MRM is responsible for the independent model validation of all decision tools and models including trading market risk models. The validation
activities are conducted in accordance with MRM standards, which includes regulatory guidance related to the evaluation of model conceptual
soundness, ongoing monitoring and outcomes analysis. As part of ongoing monitoring efforts, the performance of all trading risk models are
reviewed regularly to preemptively address emerging developments in financial markets, assess evolving modeling approaches, and to identify
potential model enhancement.
Stress testing
The Company uses a comprehensive range of stress testing techniques to help monitor risks across trading desks and to augment standard
daily VaR and other risk limits reporting. The stress testing framework is designed to quantify the impact of extreme, but plausible, stress
scenarios that could lead to large unexpected losses. Stress tests include simulations for historical repeats and hypothetical risk factor shocks.
All trading positions within each applicable market risk category (interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign exchange rate risk, credit spread risk, and
commodity price risk) are included in the Company's comprehensive stress testing framework. Management reviews stress testing scenarios
on an ongoing basis and makes updates, as necessary, to ensure that both current and emerging risks are captured appropriately.
Management also utilizes stress analyses to support the Company’s capital adequacy assessment standards. See the “Capital” section of this
MD&A for additional discussion of capital adequacy.
Liquidity
Liquidity represents the continuing ability to meet funding needs, including deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other
liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cash equivalents and AFS securities, other
factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national
money markets, growing core deposits, loan repayment and the ability to securitize or package loans for sale.
Truist monitors the ability to meet client demand for funds under both normal and stressed market conditions. In considering its liquidity
position, management evaluates Truist's funding mix based on client core funding, client rate-sensitive funding and national markets funding. In
addition, management evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive funding sources that mature in one year or less. Management also measures
liquidity needs against 30 days of stressed cash outflows for Truist and Truist Bank. To ensure a strong liquidity position, and compliance with
regulatory requirements, management maintains a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unencumbered securities. As of
December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Truist's liquid asset buffer was 16.5% and 14.7%, respectively, of total assets.
LCR rules require large U.S. banking organizations to hold unencumbered high-quality liquid assets sufficient to withstand projected 30-day
total net cash outflows, each as defined under the LCR rule. As of December 31, 2019, Truist is subject to modified LCR requirements. Truist's
modified average LCR was 165% for the three months ended December 31, 2019, relative to the regulatory minimum for such entities of 100%.
This represents the month-end results for heritage BB&T from October and November 2019 averaged with the merged Truist result for
December 2019.
Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is a Category III banking organization, and therefore is subject to a reduced tailored LCR requirement (85%)
effective January 1, 2020 and will be subject to daily calculation beginning January 1, 2021. See additional disclosures in the "Regulatory
Considerations" section in this MD&A.
Parent Company
The Parent Company serves as the primary source of capital for the operating subsidiaries. The Parent Company's assets consist primarily of
cash on deposit with Truist Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, and accounts receivable from subsidiaries. The
principal obligations of the Parent Company are payments on long-term debt. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends
and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of equity and long-term
debt. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to
common and preferred shareholders, retirement of common stock, and payments on long-term debt.
See "Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information" for additional information regarding dividends from subsidiaries and debt transactions.
68 Truist Financial Corporation
Access to funding at the Parent Company is more sensitive to market disruptions. Therefore, Truist prudently manages cash levels at the
Parent Company to cover a minimum of one year of projected cash outflows which includes unfunded external commitments, debt service,
common and preferred dividends and scheduled debt maturities, without the benefit of any new cash inflows. Truist maintains a significant
buffer above the projected one year of cash outflows. In determining the buffer, Truist considers cash requirements for common and preferred
dividends, unfunded commitments to affiliates, serving as a source of strength to Truist Bank, and being able to withstand sustained market
disruptions that could limit access to the capital markets. At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Parent Company had 29 months
and 28 months, respectively, of cash on hand to satisfy projected contractual cash outflows, and 20 months and 19 months, respectively, when
including the payment of common stock dividends.
Truist Bank
Truist carefully manages liquidity risk at Truist Bank. Truist Bank's primary source of funding is client deposits. Continued access to client
deposits is highly dependent on public confidence in the stability of Truist Bank and its ability to return funds to clients when requested.
Truist Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of
senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional CDs, FHLB advances, repurchase agreements, overnight and term Federal funds markets,
retail brokered CDs, and the FRB discount window. At December 31, 2019, Truist Bank has approximately $121.8 billion of secured borrowing
capacity, which represents approximately 3.4 times the amount of one year wholesale funding maturities.
The ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies' views of the Parent Company's and Truist Bank's credit
quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a regular basis to discuss current outlooks. The ratings
for Truist and Truist Bank by the major rating agencies are detailed in the table below:
Table 30: Credit Ratings of Truist Financial Corporation and Truist Bank
S&P Moody's Fitch DBRS
Truist Financial Corporation:
Commercial paper A-2 N/A F1 R-1(low)
Issuer A- A3 A+ A(high)
LT/senior debt A- A3 A+ A(high)
Subordinated debt BBB+ A3 A A
Preferred stock BBB- Baa2(hyb) BBB- BBB(high)
Truist Bank:
Long term deposits N/A Aa2 AA- AA(low)
LT/Senior unsecured bank notes A A2 A+ AA(low)
Other long term senior obligations A N/A A+ AA(low)
Other short term senior obligations A-1 N/A F1 R-1(middle)
Short term bank notes A-1 P-1 F1 R-1(middle)
Short term deposits N/A P-1 F1+ R-1(middle)
Subordinated bank notes A- A3 A A(high)
Ratings outlook:
Credit trend Stable Stable Stable Positive
Truist has a contingency funding plan designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet ongoing obligations and commitments,
particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. This plan is designed to examine and quantify the organization's liquidity under various
"stress" scenarios. Additionally, the plan provides a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity
contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The plan addresses authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options, and the
responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.
Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet Truist's current requirements and plans for continued growth. See
"Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities," "Note 11. Borrowings" and "Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies" for additional information
regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.
Truist Financial Corporation 69
Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The following table presents Truist's contractual obligations by payment date as of December 31, 2019. The payment amounts represent
amounts contractually due. The table excludes liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments
that may be required in connection with these liabilities. UTBs, which represent a reserve for tax positions taken or expected to be taken, which
ultimately may not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities, have been excluded from the table below since the ultimate amount
and timing of any future tax settlements are uncertain. Refer to "Note 14. Income Taxes" for additional details related to UTBs.
Table 31: Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments
December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years
Long-term debt and finance leases $ 41,362 $ 6,393 $ 15,873 $ 8,509 $ 10,587
Operating leases 2,366 375 711 517 763
Commitments to fund affordable housing investments 1,271 1,018 208 16 29
Private equity and other investments commitments (1) 577 319 133 100 25
Time deposits 35,896 29,397 5,349 1,052 98
Contractual interest payments (2) 4,615 1,384 1,692 973 566
Purchase obligations (3) 2,173 976 633 180 384
Nonqualified benefit plan obligations (4) 1,358 26 48 50 1,234
Total contractual cash obligations $ 89,618 $ 39,888 $ 24,647 $ 11,397 $ 13,686
(1) Based on estimated payment dates.
(2) Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations. Variable rate payments are based upon the rate in effect at
December 31, 2019.
(3) Represents obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding. Many of the purchase obligations have
terms that are not fixed and determinable and are included in the table above based upon the estimated timing and amount of payment. In
addition, certain of the purchase agreements contain clauses that would allow Truist to cancel the agreement with specified notice;
however, that impact is not included in the table above.
(4) Although technically unfunded plans, rabbi trusts and insurance policies on the lives of certain of the covered employees are available to
finance future benefit plan payments.
Truist's commitments include investments in affordable housing projects throughout its market area and private equity funds. Refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" and "Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies" for further discussion of these commitments. In addition, Truist enters
into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in "Note 1. Basis of
Presentation" and "Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments." Further discussion related to the nature of Truist's obligations is included in
"Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies." Further discussion of Truist's commitments is included in "Note 16. Commitments and
Contingencies" and "Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures."
Capital
The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. Truist's principal goals related to
the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support Truist's risk profile consistent with the Board-approved risk appetite,
provide financial flexibility to support future growth and client needs, comply with relevant laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, achieve
optimal credit ratings for Truist and its subsidiaries and provide a competitive return to shareholders. Risk-based capital ratios, which include
CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital are calculated based on regulatory guidance related to the measurement of capital and riskweighted assets.
70 Truist Financial Corporation
Truist regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is required to periodically submit the Company's capital plans and stress testing
results to the banking regulators. Management regularly monitors the capital position of Truist on both a consolidated and bank-level basis. In
this regard, management's overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that are in excess of internal capital targets, which are above the
regulatory "well capitalized" minimums. Management has implemented stressed capital ratio minimum targets to evaluate whether capital ratios
calculated after the effect of alternative capital actions are likely to remain above minimums specified by the FRB for the annual CCAR process.
Breaches of stressed minimum targets prompt a review of the planned capital actions included in Truist's capital plan.
Table 32: Capital Requirements and Targets
Minimum Capital
Well Capitalized Minimum Capital Plus
Capital Conservation
Buffer
Truist Targets (1)
Truist Truist Bank Operating (2) Stressed
CET1 4.5 % NA 6.5 % 7.0 % 8.5 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital 6.0 6.0 8.0 8.5 10.0 8.5
Total capital 8.0 10.0 10.0 10.5 12.0 10.5
Leverage ratio 4.0 NA 5.0 N/A 8.0 7.0
(1) The Truist targets are subject to revision based on finalization of pending regulatory guidance and other strategic factors.
(2) Truist's goal is to maintain capital levels above all regulatory minimums.
While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Company temporarily falling below its operating minimum guidelines for
one or more of these ratios, it is management's intent to return to these targeted operating minimums within a reasonable period of time
through capital planning. Such temporary decreases below the operating minimums shown above are not considered an infringement of
Truist's overall capital policy, provided a return above the minimums is forecasted to occur within a reasonable time period.
Payments of cash dividends and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition,
management closely monitors the Parent Company's double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders'
equity). The active management of the subsidiaries' equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of
Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of Truist's capital position.
Management intends to maintain capital at Truist Bank at levels that will result in classification as "well-capitalized" for regulatory purposes.
Secondarily, it is management's intent to maintain Truist Bank's capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are
generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Truist Bank increase above these guidelines,
excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company in the form of special dividend payments, subject to regulatory and other operating
considerations.
Management's capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on (i) organic growth, (ii) dividends, and (iii) strategic opportunities
and/or share repurchases depending on opportunities in the marketplace and Truist's interest and ability to proceed with acquisitions. Truist has
suspended share repurchases until capital ratios return to higher levels.
Truist Bank's capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 33: Capital Ratios - Truist Bank
December 31, 2019 2018
CET1 to risk-weighted assets 10.6 % 11.2 %
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 10.6 11.2
Total capital to risk-weighted assets 12.0 13.2
Leverage ratio 14.5 9.3
Truist Financial Corporation 71
Truist's capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 34: Capital Ratios - Truist Financial Corporation
December 31,
(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands) 2019 2018
Risk-based:
CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets 9.5 % 10.2 %
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 10.8 11.8
Total capital to risk-weighted assets 12.6 13.8
Leverage ratio 14.7 9.9
Non-GAAP capital measure (1):
Tangible common equity per common share $ 25.93 $ 21.89
Calculation of tangible common equity (1):
Total shareholders' equity $ 66,558 $ 30,178
Less:
Preferred stock 5,102 3,053
Noncontrolling interests 174 56
Goodwill and intangible assets, net of deferred taxes 26,482 10,360
Tangible common equity $ 34,800 $ 16,709
Risk-weighted assets $ 376,056 $ 181,260
Common shares outstanding at end of period 1,342,166 763,326
(1) Tangible common equity and related measures are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of intangible assets, net of deferred
taxes, and their related amortization. These measures are useful for evaluating the performance of a business consistently, whether
acquired or developed internally. Truist's management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and returns relative to balance
sheet risk and believes investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily
comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.
During 2019,Truist paid $1.3 billion in common stock dividends, which resulted in a total payout ratio of 43.2% for the year.
Truist's Board increased the dividend by $0.045 during 2019, which increased the amount of the quarterly dividend to $0.45 per share. As
previously communicated, Truist suspended its share repurchase program until capital ratios return to higher levels