Company Information 

General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a financial 
services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, serving millions of local, national and global customers. 
U.S. Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company under the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), and has 
elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the 
BHC Act. The Company provides a full range of financial services, 
including lending and depository services, cash management, 
capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It 
also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM 
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. 
Effective December 1, 2022, the Company acquired MUB’s core 
regional banking franchise, consisting primarily of retail banking 
branches in California, Oregon and Washington. 

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiaries, USBNA and MUB, are 
engaged in the general banking business, principally in domestic 
markets, and hold all of the Company’s consolidated deposits of 
$525.0 billion at December 31, 2022. USBNA and MUB provide 
a wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, 
institutional organizations, governmental entities and other 
financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services 
are principally offered to customers within the Company’s 
domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations 
and to large national customers operating in specific industries 
targeted by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil and 
gas, and state and municipal government. Lending services 
include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, 
lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, 
agricultural finance and other products. Depository services 
include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate 
contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury 
management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to 
corporate and governmental entity customers. U.S. Bancorp’s 
bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset 
management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, 
foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations. 
Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment 
and insurance products to the Company’s customers principally 
within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a 
broad range of mutual and other funds. 

Banking and investment services are provided through a 
network of 2,494 banking offices as of December 31, 2022, 
principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the 
United States, through on-line services, over mobile devices and 
through other distribution channels. The Company operates a 
network of 4,505 ATMs as of December 31, 2022, and provides 
24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. 
Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices 
and loan production offices throughout the Company’s domestic 
markets. Lending products may be originated through banking 
offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending 

sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of 
corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust 
services in the United States. The Company’s wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), provides domestic merchant 
processing services directly to merchants. Wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of Elavon provide similar merchant services in 
Canada and segments of Europe. The Company also provides 
corporate trust and fund administration services in Europe. These 
foreign operations are not significant to the Company. 

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2022, 

U.S. Bancorp employed 76,646 people. 

Risk Factors An investment in the Company involves risk, 
including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall 
substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are material 
risk factors that make an investment in the Company speculative 
or risky. 

Economic and Market Conditions Risk 
Deterioration in business and economic conditions could 
adversely affect the Company’s lending business and the 
value of loans and debt securities it holds The Company’s 
business activities and earnings are affected by general business 
conditions in the United States and abroad, including factors 
such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term 
interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-
employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer 
spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, 
liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of 
capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the 
financial markets, and the strength of the domestic and global 
economies in which the Company operates. Changes in these 
conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected 
the Company’s consumer and commercial businesses and 
securities portfolios, its level of charge-offs and provision for 
credit losses, and its results of operations during 2020, 2021 and 
2022, and changes in these conditions caused by Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine impacted the Company’s results of operations 
in 2022. Other future changes in these conditions, whether 
related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine, the threat 
or occurrence of a U.S. sovereign default or otherwise, could 
have additional adverse effects on the Company and its 
businesses. 

Given the high percentage of the Company’s assets 

represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of 
lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions have 
negatively affected the Company’s business and results of 
operations, including new loan origination activity, existing loan 
utilization rates and delinquencies, defaults and the ability of 
customers to meet obligations under the loans. In addition, future 
deterioration in economic conditions could have adverse effects 
on loan origination activity, loan utilization rates and 
delinquencies, defaults and the ability of customers to meet loan 

140 

obligations. The value to the Company of other assets such as 
investment securities, most of which are debt securities or other 
financial instruments supported by loans, similarly have been, and 
would be, negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit 
quality resulting from a weakening of the economy. 

In addition, volatility and uncertainty related to inflation or a 

possible recession and their effects, which could potentially 
continue to contribute to poor economic conditions, may 
contribute to or enhance some of the risks described herein. For 
example, higher inflation, slower growth or a recession could 
reduce demand for the Company’s products, adversely affect the 
creditworthiness of its borrowers or result in lower values for its 
interest-earning assets and investment securities. Any of these 
effects, or others that the Company is not able to predict, could 
adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. 

Any deterioration in global economic conditions could damage 

the domestic economy or negatively affect the Company’s 
borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect 
exposure to these regions. Such global disruptions, including 
disruptions in supply chains or geopolitical risk, can undermine 
investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or 
create market volatility, any of which could have material adverse 
effects on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, 
financial condition and liquidity, even if the Company’s direct 
exposure to the affected region is limited. Global political trends 
toward nationalism and isolationism, could increase the 
probability of a deterioration in global economic conditions. 

Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net 
interest income The Company’s earnings are dependent to a 
large degree on net interest income, which is the difference 
between interest income from loans and investments and interest 
expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is 
significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are 
affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and 
monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of 
various regulatory agencies. Volatility in interest rates can also 
result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into 
direct investments. Direct investments, such as United States 
government and corporate securities and other investment 
vehicles (including mutual funds), generally pay higher rates of 
return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal 
insurance premiums and reserve requirements. 

United States interest rates fell dramatically during the first 
quarter of 2020 and remained low through 2021, which adversely 
affected the Company’s net interest income. The Federal Reserve 
raised benchmark interest rates throughout 2022 and may 
continue to raise interest rates in response to economic 
conditions, particularly inflationary pressures. 

When interest rates are increasing, the Company can 
generally be expected to earn higher net interest income. 
However, higher interest rates can also lead to fewer originations 
of loans, less liquidity in the financial markets, and higher funding 
costs, each of which could adversely affect the Company’s 
revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. In 2022, as a result of 

the high interest rate environment, the Company earned higher 
net interest income but experienced fewer originations of 
mortgage loans and higher funding costs, and the Company 
expects these effects to continue in the future if interest rates 
remain elevated or increase further. Higher interest rates can also 
negatively affect the payment performance on loans that are 
linked to variable interest rates. If borrowers of variable rate loans 
are unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers 
may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing the 
Company to incur losses and increased operational costs related 
to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. 

The Company’s results may be materially affected by 
market fluctuations and significant changes in the value of 
financial instruments The value of securities, derivatives and 
other financial instruments which the Company owns or in which it 
makes markets can be materially affected by market fluctuations. 
Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and other disruptions in 
the financial markets may make it extremely difficult to value 
certain financial instruments. Subsequent valuations of financial 
instruments in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, 
may result in significant changes in the value of these instruments. 
In addition, at the time of any disposition of these financial 
instruments, the price that the Company ultimately realizes will 
depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and 
may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these 
factors could cause a decline in the value of financial instruments 
that the Company owns or in which it makes markets, which may 
have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 
The Company’s risk management and monitoring processes, 
including its stress testing framework, seek to quantify and control 
the Company’s exposure to more extreme market moves. 
However, the Company’s hedging and other risk management 
strategies may not be effective, and it could incur significant 
losses, if extreme market events were to occur. 

The discontinuance of the London Interbank Offered Rate 
(“LIBOR”) as an interest rate benchmark could adversely 
affect the Company’s business, financial condition and 
results of operations The publication of the most commonly 
used United States Dollar LIBOR settings will cease to be 
provided or cease to be representative after June 30, 2023. The 
publication of all other LIBOR settings ceased to be provided or 
ceased to representative as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, 
the United States federal banking agencies issued guidance 
strongly encouraging banking organizations to cease using the 
United States Dollar LIBOR as a reference rate in “new” contracts 
by December 31, 2021, at the latest, with limited exceptions. In 
March 2022, the LIBOR Act was enacted. The LIBOR Act 
provides a uniform approach for replacing LIBOR as a reference 
rate in contracts that do not include effective fallback provisions. 
Under the LIBOR Act and its implementing regulations, 
references to the most common tenors of LIBOR in such 
contracts will be replaced as a matter of law to instead reference 
rates based on SOFR. 

141 

The replacement of LIBOR is complex and could have a range 

of adverse impacts on the Company’s business and results of 
operations. The Company has various types of transactions, 
including derivatives, loans, bonds, and securitized products, that 
reference LIBOR and other Interbank Offered Rates (“IBORs”). 
The replacement of LIBOR and other IBORs with ARRs and the 
Company’s development of products linked to alternate 
benchmark rates has created a number of risks for the Company, 
its customers, and the financial services industry more widely. 
The extensive changes to documentation that govern or 
reference LIBOR or LIBOR-based products create a variety of 
execution risks for the Company. The Company may be unable 
to modify contracts with its counterparties to replace the 
reference rate for existing contracts based on or linked to LIBOR 
and other interest rate benchmarks with ARRs by the dates set 
for cessation of LIBOR and other interest rate benchmarks. The 
Company will need to transition all contracts still tied to LIBOR on 
or shortly after the cessation of LIBOR, which becomes 
increasingly complicated with higher numbers of contracts due to 
variations across different products, types of fallback language, 
and remediation strategies. The Company will also need to 
communicate with counterparties regarding the transition of 
contracts to an ARR, and such communications will vary by 
customer and by product due to differences in product type, 
regulatory requirements, and other customer considerations. 

The transition from LIBOR may also result in disputes, litigation 
or other actions with clients, counterparties or investors, including 
with respect to, among other things, (i) the interpretation and 
enforceability of provisions in LIBOR-based products such as 
fallback language or other related provisions, (ii) the interpretation 
and implementation of the LIBOR Act and the enforceability 
thereof, (iii) any economic, legal, operational or other impact from 
the fundamental differences between LIBOR and the various 
ARRs, (iv) any issues resulting from implementing fallback 
language in a large number of contracts over a short period of 
time, (v) a claimed failure to appropriately communicate possible 
remediation strategies and the effects of the transition, and 
(vi) any actions resulting from the Company’s interpretation and 
execution of its roles and responsibilities in corporate trust 
transactions. The transition may also result in additional inquiries 
or other actions from regulators regarding the Company’s 
preparation and readiness for the replacement of LIBOR. 

The discontinuation of a LIBOR setting, changes in LIBOR or 
changes in market acceptance of LIBOR as a reference rate may 
also adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by the 
Company; amounts paid on securities the Company has issued; 
amounts received and paid on derivative instruments it has 
entered into; the value of such loans, securities or derivative 
instruments; the trading market for securities; the terms of new 
loans being made using different or modified reference rates; the 
Company’s ability to effectively use derivative instruments to 
manage risk; and the availability or cost of floating-rate funding 
and the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. 

Changes to benchmark indices may also adversely affect the 
price, liquidity, value of, return on and trading for a broad array of 
financial products, including any LIBOR-linked securities, loans 
and derivatives that are included in the Company’s financial 
assets and liabilities. 

The Company’s acquisition of MUB creates additional risks for 

the Company and compounds the risks noted above. In certain 
instances, the Company and MUB have different remediation 
strategies for similar products, which increases the complexity in 
planning for and executing remediation strategies related to 
customer communications and rate transitions. Additionally, in 
certain instances, the Company and MUB have taken different 
approaches to communications with customers. The dispute 
risks and economic risks noted above are heightened as well due 
to the increased number of financial instruments which must be 
transitioned from LIBOR. 

The Company is also subject to the risk that its customers, 
counterparties and third-party vendors are not operationally ready 
to transition away from LIBOR, and the failure of such third 
parties to upgrade their operations to transition away from LIBOR 
on a timely basis could materially disrupt the Company’s 
operations. 

Operations and Business Risk 
A breach in the security of the Company’s information 
systems, or the information systems of certain third 
parties, could disrupt the Company’s businesses, result in 
the disclosure of confidential information, damage its 
reputation and create significant financial and legal 
exposure The Company continues to experience an increasing 
number of attempted attacks on its information systems, 
software, networks and other technologies. Although the 
Company devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly 
upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to protect 
the security of the Company’s computer systems, software, 
networks, technologies and intellectual property, and to protect 
the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information 
belonging to the Company and its customers, the Company’s 
security measures may not be effective against new threats. 
Malicious actors continue to develop increasingly sophisticated 
cyber attacks that could impact the Company. Many financial 
institutions, retailers and other companies engaged in data 
processing, including software and information technology service 
providers, have reported cyber attacks, some of which involved 
sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain 
unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, 
disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through 
the introduction of software that is intentionally included or 
inserted in an information system for a harmful purpose (malware). 

Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the 
overall functioning of the financial system could also adversely 
affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of the Company’s 
businesses. The increasing consolidation, interdependence and 

142 

complexity of financial entities and technology systems increases 
the risk of operational failure, both for the Company and on an 
industry-wide basis, and means that a technology failure, cyber 
attack, or other information or security breach that significantly 
degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or 
more financial entities could materially affect the Company, 
counterparties or other market participants. 

Third parties that facilitate the Company’s business activities, 

including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment and ATM 
networks, financial intermediaries and vendors that provide 
services or technology solutions for the Company’s operations, 
are also sources of operational and security risks to the Company 
due to failures of their systems, misconduct by their employees or 
cyber attacks that could affect their ability to deliver a product or 
service to the Company, resulting in lost or compromised 
Company or customer information. Although the Company 
implements safeguards with respect to third-party systems, such 
safeguards may not always be effective. Furthermore, a third 
party may not reveal an attack or system failure to the Company 
in a timely manner, which could compromise the Company’s 
ability to respond effectively. Some of these third parties may 
engage vendors of their own, which introduces the risk that the 
third party’s vendors and subcontractors (“fourth parties”) could 
be the source of operational and security failures. In addition, if a 
third party obtains access to the customer account data on the 
Company’s systems, and that party experiences a breach via an 
external or internal threat or misappropriates such data, the 
Company and its customers could suffer material harm, including 
heightened risk of fraudulent transactions, losses from fraudulent 
transactions, increased operational costs to remediate any 
security breach and reputational harm. These risks are expected 
to continue to increase as the Company expands its 
interconnectivity with its customers and other third parties. 
Within the past several years, multiple companies have 

disclosed substantial cybersecurity breaches affecting debit and 
credit card accounts of their customers, some of whom were the 
Company’s cardholders and who may experience fraud on their 
card accounts because of the breach. The Company has suffered, 
and will in the future suffer, losses associated with reimbursing its 
customers for such fraudulent transactions, as well as for other 
costs related to data security compromise events, such as 
replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. 
These attacks involving Company cards are likely to continue and 
could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse 
effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of 
operations. 

It is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate 

or to implement effective preventive measures against all 
cybersecurity breaches because malicious actor methods and 
techniques change frequently, increase in sophistication, often 
are not recognized until launched, sometimes go undetected 
even when successful, and originate from a wide variety of 
sources, including organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, 

hostile foreign governments and other external parties. Those 
parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, 
customers or other users of the Company’s systems to disclose 
sensitive information to gain access to the Company’s data or 
that of its customers or clients, such as through “phishing” and 
other “social engineering” schemes. Other types of attacks may 
include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, 
denial-of-service attacks, cyber extortion and accompanying 
ransom demands. The Company’s information security risks may 
increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its 
mobile and internet-based product offerings and expands its 
internal usage of web-based products and applications. In 
addition, the Company’s customers often use their own devices, 
such as computers, smart phones and tablet computers, to 
make payments and manage their accounts, and are subject to 
“phishing” and other attempts from cyber criminals to 
compromise or deny access to their accounts. The Company has 
limited ability to assure the safety and security of its customers’ 
transactions with the Company to the extent they are using their 
own devices, which have been, and likely will continue to be, 
subject to such threats. 

In addition, the Company’s acquisition of MUB has caused 
the Company to experience increased cybersecurity risk, which 
the Company expects to remain elevated until the integration of 
MUB is completed. Specifically, these risks include technology 
disruption during the integration phase, potential dormant threats 
in MUB, information technology resilience risk during integration 
and conversion, and risks related to the cybersecurity postures of 
USBNA and MUB. 

If the Company’s physical or cybersecurity systems are 

penetrated or circumvented, or an authorized user intentionally or 
unintentionally removes, loses or destroys critical business data, 
serious negative consequences for the Company can follow, 
including significant disruption of the Company’s operations, 
misappropriation of confidential Company and/or customer 
information, or damage to the Company’s or customers’ or 
counterparties’ computers or systems. These consequences 
could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws; 
financial loss to the Company or to its customers; loss of 
confidence in the Company’s security measures; customer 
dissatisfaction; significant litigation exposure; regulatory fines, 
penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other compensatory 
costs (including the costs of credit monitoring services); additional 
compliance costs; and harm to the Company’s reputation, all of 
which could adversely affect the Company. 

Because the investigation of any information security breach is 

inherently unpredictable and would require substantial time to 
complete, the Company may not be able to quickly remediate the 
consequences of any breach, which may increase the costs of, 
and enhance the negative consequences associated with, a 
breach. In addition, to the extent the Company’s insurance 
covers aspects of any breach, such insurance may not be 
sufficient to cover all the Company’s losses. 

143 

The Company relies on its employees, systems and third 
parties to conduct its business, and certain failures by 
systems or misconduct by employees or third parties 
could adversely affect its operations The Company operates 
in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the 
ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of 
transactions. The Company’s business, financial, accounting, 
data processing, and other operating systems and facilities may 
stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged due to a 
number of factors, including events that are out of its control. In 
addition to the risks posed by information security breaches, as 
discussed above, such systems could be compromised because 
of spikes in transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications 
outages, degradation or loss of internet or website availability, 
natural disasters, political or social unrest, and terrorist acts. The 
Company’s business operations may be adversely affected by 
significant disruption to the operating systems that support its 
businesses and customers. If backup systems are used during 
outages, they might not process data as quickly as do the 
primary systems, which could negatively impact the ability to 
back up data. 

The Company could also incur losses resulting from the risk of 

human error by employees, fraud by employees or persons 
outside the Company, unauthorized access to its computer 
systems, the execution of unauthorized transactions by 
employees, errors relating to transaction processing and 
technology, breaches of the internal control system and 
compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster 
recovery. This risk of loss also includes customer remediation 
costs, the potential legal actions, fines or civil money penalties 
that could arise resulting from an operational deficiency or 
noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse 
business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition 
due to potential negative publicity. 

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s 
business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has 
selected these third parties carefully, it is limited in its ability to 
control their actions. Any problems caused by third-party service 
providers, including failing to comply with their contractual 
obligations or performing their services negligently, could 
adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and 
services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct 
its business. Replacing third-party service providers could also 
entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of third-
party service providers to handle current or higher volumes of use 
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products 
and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. 
Technological or financial difficulties of a third-party service 
provider could adversely affect the Company’s businesses to the 
extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation 
of services provided by that party. 

Operational risks for large financial institutions such as the 

Company have generally increased in recent years, in part 
because of the proliferation of new technologies, implementation 
of work-from-home and hybrid work arrangements, the use of 
internet services and telecommunications technologies to 
conduct financial transactions, the increased number and 
complexity of transactions being processed, and the increased 
sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, 
terrorists, activists, and other external parties. In the event of a 
breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of 
systems or improper employee or third-party actions, the 
Company could suffer financial loss, face legal or regulatory 
action and suffer damage to its reputation. 

The Company could face material legal and reputational 
harm if it fails to safeguard personal information The 
Company is subject to complex and evolving laws and 
regulations, both inside and outside the United States, governing 
the privacy and protection of personal information. Individuals 
whose personal information may be protected by law can include 
the Company’s customers, customers’ customers, prospective 
customers, job applicants, current and former employees, the 
employees of the Company’s suppliers, and other individuals. 
Complying with laws and regulations applicable to the 
Company’s collection, use, transfer and storage of personal 
information can increase operating costs, impact the 
development and marketing of new products or services, and 
reduce operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse of 
personal information by the Company or its suppliers could 
expose the Company to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or 
other sanctions. 

In the United States, several states have recently enacted 
consumer privacy laws that impose compliance obligations with 
respect to personal information. In particular, the California 
Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”) and its implementing 
regulations impose significant requirements on covered 
businesses with respect to consumer data privacy rights. In 
November 2020, voters in the State of California approved the 
California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), a ballot measure that 
amends and supplements the CCPA by, among other things, 
expanding certain rights relating to personal information and its 
use, collection, deletion, correction, and disclosure by covered 
businesses. Compliance with the CCPA, the CPRA, and other 
state statutes, common law, or regulations designed to protect 
personal information could potentially require substantive 
technology infrastructure and process changes across many of 
the Company’s businesses. Non-compliance with the CCPA, 
CPRA, or similar laws and regulations could lead to substantial 
regulatory fines and penalties, damages from private causes of 
action, compelled changes to the Company’s business practices, 
and/or reputational harm. The Company cannot predict whether 
any pending or future state or federal legislation will be adopted, 
or the impact of any such adopted legislation on the Company. 

144 

Future legislation could result in substantial costs to the Company 
and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial 
condition and results of operations. 

In addition, legal requirements for cross-border personal data 

transfers are constantly changing, including the revisions made 
by the European Economic Area (“EEA”) that require the use of 
revised Standard Contractual Clauses (“SCCs”) for international 
data transfers from the EEA. The SCCs are required to be used 
for new agreements involving the cross-border transfer of 
personal data from the EEA and must be supplemented by an 
assessment and due diligence of the legal and regulatory 
landscape of the jurisdiction of the data importer, the channels 
used to transmit personal data and any sub-processors that may 
receive personal data. The UK has developed its own set of 
SCCs that must be used for transfers of personal data from the 
UK to the U.S. In December 2022, the European Commission 
announced a draft adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data 
Privacy Framework (the “EU-U.S. DPF”), a cross-border data 
transfer mechanism that will replace the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield 
that was invalidated in 2020. The EU-U.S. DPF is in development, 
and there is no guarantee that it will be approved in its current 
form. Compliance with these changes and any future changes to 
data transfer or privacy requirements could potentially require the 
Company to make significant technological and operational 
changes, any of which could result in substantial costs to the 
Company, and failure to comply with applicable data transfer or 
privacy requirements could subject the Company to fines or 
regulatory oversight. 

Additional risks could arise from the failure of the Company or 

third parties to provide adequate notice to the Company’s 
customers about the personal information collected from them 
and the use of such information; to receive, document, and honor 
the privacy preferences expressed by the Company’s customers; 
to protect personal information from unauthorized disclosure; or 
to maintain proper training on privacy practices for all employees 
or third parties who have access to personal information. 
Concerns regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s 
measures to safeguard personal information and abide by privacy 
preferences, or even the perception that those measures are 
inadequate or that the Company does not abide by such privacy 
preferences, could cause the Company to lose existing or 
potential customers and thereby reduce its revenues. In addition, 
any failure or perceived failure by the Company to comply with 
applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations could 
result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or 
practices, and/or in material liabilities or regulatory fines, 
penalties, or other sanctions. Refer to “Supervision and 
Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
additional information regarding data privacy laws and 
regulations. Any of these outcomes could materially damage the 
Company’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its 
business. 

The Company could lose market share and experience 
increased costs if it does not effectively develop and 
implement new technology The financial services industry is 
continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent 
introductions of new technology-driven products and services, 
including innovative ways that customers can make payments or 
manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile 
payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. The growth of 
many of these technologies was accelerated as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the shift to increased digital activity. The 
Company’s continued success depends, in part, upon its ability 
to address customer needs by using technology to provide 
products and services that customers want to adopt and create 
additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. When 
launching a new product or service or introducing a new platform 
for the delivery of products and services, the Company might not 
identify or fully appreciate new operational risks arising from those 
innovations or might fail to implement adequate controls to 
mitigate those risks. Developing and deploying new technology-
driven products and services can also involve costs that the 
Company may not recover and divert resources away from other 
product development efforts. The Company may not be able to 
effectively develop and implement profitable new technology-
driven products and services or be successful in marketing these 
products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully 
keep pace with technological change affecting the financial 
services industry, including because larger competitors may have 
more resources to spend on developing new technologies or 
because non-bank competitors have a lower cost structure and 
more flexibility, could harm the Company’s competitive position 
and negatively affect its revenue and profit. 

The Company may not realize the full value of its strategic 
plans and initiatives As the Company develops its strategic 
initiatives, it scans the internal and external environment to inform 
any changes required, take advantage of new opportunities and/ 
or respond to unexpected challenges. Initiatives include focusing 
on customer growth with tailored products and experiences that 
meet customer needs; maintaining discipline centered on 
preserving the Company’s financial excellence and risk appetite; 
acquiring and integrating financial services businesses or assets; 
cultivating a future-focused and diverse talent strategy; and 
increasing access to banking services and economic 
empowerment. The Company’s initiatives are impacted by 
internal factors, rapid pace of change from an evolving 
competitive landscape, increased cybersecurity threats, 
accelerated digitalization, and emerging technologies. In addition, 
execution is impacted by the Company’s response to external 
economic conditions, global uncertainty, and regulatory factors 
that are beyond its control. The Company’s future growth and the 
value of its stock will depend, in part, on its ability to effectively 
implement its business strategy. If the Company is not able to 

145 

successfully execute its business strategy, then the Company’s 
competitive position, reputation, prospects for growth, and 
results of operations may be adversely affected. 

Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely 
impact its business and financial results Reputation risk, or 
the risk to the Company’s business, earnings and capital from 
negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s business. 
Negative public opinion about the financial services industry 
generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the 
Company’s ability to retain and attract stakeholders such as 
customers, investors, and employees and could expose the 
Company to litigation and regulatory action. Negative public 
opinion can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct 
in any number of activities, including lending practices, 
cybersecurity breaches, failures to safeguard personal 
information, discriminating or harassing behavior of employees 
toward other employees or customers, mortgage servicing and 
foreclosure practices, compensation practices, sales practices, 
regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and actions 
taken by government regulators and community organizations in 
response to that conduct. Additionally, the Company’s 
stakeholders often hold differing views on how the Company 
should address environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) 
goals as it relates to serving customers. The Company’s 
approach to ESG and customers may result in negative attention 
in traditional and social media, resulting in a negative perception 
of the Company depending on an individual’s view. In addition, 
failure to deliver against established ESG goals and objectives 
could present reputational and financial harm to the Company. If 
the Company is unable to design or execute against business 
strategies that balance conflicting views on how it supports ESG 
initiatives, while continuing to support customers from differing 
industries, reputational damage could result, leading to a loss of 
customers or negative investor sentiment. Although the Company 
takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers 
and other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified 
financial services company with a high industry profile, is 
inherently exposed to this risk. 

The Company’s business and financial performance could 
be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by natural 
disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities Neither the occurrence nor the potential 
impact of natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil 
unrest or international hostilities can be predicted. However, 
these occurrences could impact the Company directly (for 
example, by interrupting the Company’s systems, which could 
prevent the Company from obtaining deposits, originating loans 
and processing and controlling its flow of business; causing 
significant damage to the Company’s facilities; or otherwise 
preventing the Company from conducting business in the 
ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the 
Company’s borrowers, depositors, other customers, vendors or 
other counterparties (for example, by damaging properties 
pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans or impairing the 

ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans). The Company 
has also suffered, and could in the future suffer, adverse 
consequences to the extent that natural disasters, pandemics, 
including the COVID-19 pandemic, terrorist activities, civil unrest 
or international hostilities, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, 
affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any 
particular region. 

For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has created economic 
and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and may in 
the future adversely affect, the Company’s business, financial 
condition, capital and results of operations. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Company experienced significant disruptions to its 
normal operations, including the temporary closing of branches 
and a sudden increase in the volume of work-from-home 
arrangements. In addition, the Company has been indirectly 
negatively affected by the pandemic’s effects on the Company’s 
borrowers and other customers, and by its effects on global 
financial markets. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic 
will in the future negatively affect the Company’s business, 
financial condition, capital and results of operations will depend 
on developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be 
predicted at this time, including the scope and duration of any 
surges in the pandemic, the continued effectiveness of vaccines 
and their distribution and acceptance over the long term 
(including the effectiveness of vaccines against new COVID 
variants), the continued effectiveness of the Company’s business 
continuity plans, and governmental and other responses to the 
pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused, and other 
future natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest 
or international hostilities, may cause, an increase in 
delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in the 
Company experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net 
charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. 

Depending on the impact of the pandemic and current 

international hostilities on general economic and market 
conditions, there is a risk that adverse conditions could occur or 
worsen, including supply chain disruptions; higher inflation; a 
possible recession; decreased demand for the Company’s 
products and services or those of its borrowers, which could 
increase credit risk; challenges related to maintaining sufficient 
qualified personnel due to labor shortages, talent attrition, 
employee illness, or willingness to return to work; increased risk 
of cyber attacks; increased volatility in commodity, currency and 
other financial markets; and disruptions to business operations at 
the Company and at counterparties, vendors and other service 
providers. 

The United States has in recent years faced periods significant 

civil unrest. Although civil unrest has not materially affected the 
Company’s businesses to date, similar events could, directly or 
indirectly, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
operations (for example, by causing shutdowns of branches or 
working locations of vendors or other counterparties or damaging 
property pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans). 

The Company’s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences 

of these occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of the 

146 

Company’s resiliency planning, and the Company’s ability, if any, 
to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The 
adverse effects of natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, 
civil unrest or international hostilities also could be increased to 
the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of 
national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other 
organizations and businesses that the Company transacts with, 
particularly those that it depends upon, but has no control over. 
Additionally, both the frequency and severity of some kinds of 
natural disasters, including wildfires, flooding, tornadoes and 
hurricanes, have increased, and the Company expects will 
continue to increase, as a result of climate change. 

The Company’s business strategy, operations, financial 
performance and customers could be materially adversely 
affected by the impacts related to climate change There is 
an increasing concern over the risks of climate change and the 
impact that climate change may have on the Company and its 
customers and communities. The physical risks of climate change 
include increasing average global temperatures, rising sea levels 
and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather 
events and natural disasters, including wildfires, floods, tornadoes 
and hurricanes. Climate shifts and the increasing frequency and 
severity of natural disasters reduce the Company’s ability to 
predict accurately the effects of natural disasters. Such disasters 
could disrupt the Company’s operations or the operations of 
customers or third parties on which the Company relies. Such 
disasters could also result in market volatility, negatively impact 
customers’ ability to pay outstanding loans, damage collateral or 
result in the deterioration of the value of collateral. Such disasters 
may also result in reduced availability of insurance, including 
insurance that protects property pledged as collateral for 
Company loans, which could negatively affect the Company’s 
ability to predict credit losses accurately. 

Additionally, climate change concerns could result in transition 

risk. Transition risks could include changes in consumer 
preferences, new technologies, and additional legislation and 
regulatory requirements, including those associated with the 
transition to a low-carbon economy. These physical risks and 
transition risks could increase expenses or otherwise adversely 
impact the Company’s business strategy, operations, financial 
performance and customers. In particular, new regulations or 
guidance, or the attitudes of regulators, shareholders and 
employees regarding climate change, may affect the activities in 
which the Company engages and the products that the 
Company offers. In addition, an increasing perspective that 
financial institutions, including the Company, play an important 
role in managing risks related to climate change, including 
indirectly with respect to their customers, may result in increased 
pressure on the Company to take additional steps to disclose 
and manage its climate risks and related lending and other 
activities. The Company could also experience increased 
expenses resulting from strategic planning, litigation and 
technology and market changes, and reputational harm as a 
result of negative public sentiment, regulatory scrutiny and 

reduced investor and stakeholder confidence due to the 
Company’s response to climate change and the Company’s 
climate change strategy. 

Risks associated with climate change are continuing to evolve 
rapidly, making it difficult to assess the effects of climate change 
on the Company, and the Company expects that climate change-
related risks will continue to evolve and increase over time. 

Regulatory and Legal Risk 
The Company is subject to extensive and evolving 
government regulation and supervision, which can 
increase the cost of doing business, limit the Company’s 
ability to make investments and generate revenue, and 
lead to costly enforcement actions Banking regulations are 
primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, the federal 
Deposit Insurance Fund, and the United States financial system 
as a whole, and not the Company’s debt holders or 
shareholders. These regulations, and the Company’s inability to 
act in certain instances without receiving prior regulatory 
approval, affect the Company’s lending practices, capital 
structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to 
repurchase common stock, and ability to pursue strategic 
acquisitions, among other activities. 

The Company expects that its business will remain subject to 
extensive regulation and supervision and that the level of scrutiny 
and the enforcement environment may fluctuate over time, based 
on numerous factors, including changes in the United States 
presidential administration or one or both houses of Congress 
and public sentiment regarding financial institutions (which can be 
influenced by scandals and other incidents that involve 
participants in the industry). In particular, changes in 
administration may result in the Company and other large 
financial institutions becoming subject to increased scrutiny and/ 
or more extensive legal and regulatory requirements than under 
prior presidential and congressional regimes. In addition, changes 
in key personnel at the agencies that regulate the Company, 
including the federal banking regulators, may result in differing 
interpretations of existing rules and guidelines and potentially 
more stringent enforcement and more severe penalties than 
previously experienced. New regulations or modifications to 
existing regulations and supervisory expectations have increased, 
and may in the future increase, the Company’s costs over time 
and necessitate changes to the Company’s existing regulatory 
compliance and risk management infrastructure. In addition, 
regulatory changes may reduce the Company’s revenues 
(including by limiting the fees the Company may charge), limit the 
types of financial services and products it may offer, alter the 
investments it makes, affect the manner in which it operates its 
businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs should it 
fail to appropriately comply with new or modified laws and 
regulatory requirements, and increase the ability of non-banks to 
offer competing financial services and products. 

Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or their 

interpretation or implementation, and/or regulatory practices, 

147 

requirements or expectations, could affect the Company in 
substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, the Inflation 
Reduction Act of 2022 imposed a new one percent excise tax on 
corporate stock repurchases, which could impact the extent of 
the Company’s common stock repurchases, preferred stock 
redemptions, and mergers and acquisitions activity, as well as 
increase the Company’s tax liability and reduce the Company’s 
net income in connection with these activities. Moreover, general 
regulatory practices, such as longer time frames to obtain 
regulatory approvals for acquisitions and other activities (and the 
resultant impact on businesses the Company may seek to 
acquire), could affect the Company’s ability or willingness to 
make certain acquisitions or introduce new products or services. 
In addition, the Biden Administration recently called on all 
regulatory agencies to reduce or eliminate certain fees relating to 
a number of services, including banking services. At the same 
time, the CFPB launched an initiative to reduce the amounts and 
types of fees financial institutions may charge, including by 
issuing a proposed rule that would significantly reduce the 
permissible amount of credit card late fees. Such changes could 
affect the Company’s ability or willingness to provide certain 
products or services, necessitate changes to the Company’s 
business practices or reduce the Company’s revenues. 

Federal law grants substantial supervisory and enforcement 

powers to federal banking regulators and law enforcement 
agencies, including, among other things, the ability to assess 
significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; 
to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate 
injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-
affiliated parties. The financial services industry continues to face 
scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and 
stringent enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state 
levels, including with respect to mortgage-related practices, fair 
lending practices, fees charged by banks, student lending 
practices, sales practices and related incentive compensation 
programs, and other consumer compliance matters, as well as 
compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering (“BSA/ 
AML”) requirements and sanctions compliance requirements as 
administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and 
consumer protection issues more generally. This regulatory 
scrutiny, or the results of an investigation or examination, may 
lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement 
actions. There is no assurance that those actions will not result in 
regulatory settlements or other enforcement actions against the 
Company or any of the Company’s subsidiaries (including 
USBNA and MUB and, in the case of MUB, in respect of conduct 
or activities that may have occurred prior to the Company’s 
acquisition of MUB), which could cause the Company material 
financial and reputational harm. Furthermore, a single event 
involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to 
numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either 
by multiple federal and state agencies and officials in the United 
States or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental 

officials in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, another financial 
institution’s violation of law or regulation relating to a business 
activity or practice often will give rise to an investigation of the 
same or similar activities or practices of the Company. 

In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in 
settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of 
other terms of regulatory settlements are likely to remain elevated. 
In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal 
pleas or other extraordinary terms, including admissions of 
wrongdoing and the imposition of monitors, as part of such 
settlements, which could have significant consequences for a 
financial institution, including loss of customers, reputational 
harm, increased exposure to civil litigation, restrictions on the 
ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate 
certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. 

Non-compliance with sanctions laws and/or BSA/AML laws or 

failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML compliance program 
can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational 
damage. In addition, federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness 
of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining 
whether to approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, 
restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a 
number of significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-
dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to 
sanctions laws and BSA/AML laws, and some have resulted in 
substantial penalties, including against the Company and USBNA 
in 2018. 

Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in 
risk management practices or consumer compliance also may be 
incorporated into the Company’s confidential supervisory ratings. 
A downgrade in these ratings, or these or other regulatory actions 
and settlements, could limit the Company’s ability to conduct 
expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or 
additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other 
business activities. 

Differences in regulation can affect the Company’s ability 
to compete effectively The content and application of laws and 
regulations applicable to financial institutions vary according to 
the size of the institution, the jurisdictions in which the institution 
is organized and operates and other factors. Large institutions, 
such as the Company, often are subject to more stringent 
regulatory requirements and supervision than smaller institutions. 
In addition, financial technology companies and other non-bank 
competitors may not be subject to the prudential and consumer 
protection regulatory framework that applies to banks, or may be 
regulated by a national or state agency that does not have the 
same regulatory priorities or supervisory requirements as the 
Company’s regulators. These differences in regulation can impair 
the Company’s ability to compete effectively with competitors 
that are less regulated and that do not have similar compliance 
costs or restrictions on activities. 

148 

Stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity have 
been adopted by United States banking regulators that may 
limit the Company’s ability to return earnings to 
shareholders or operate or invest in its business United 
States banking regulators have adopted stringent capital- and 
liquidity-related standards applicable to larger banking 
organizations, including the Company. The rules require banks to 
hold more and higher quality capital as well as sufficient 
unencumbered liquid assets to meet certain stress scenarios 
defined by regulation. In November 2019, the federal banking 
regulators adopted two final rules (the “Tailoring Rules”) that 
revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory 
capital and liquidity requirements for large United States banking 
organizations, including the Company and USBNA, and that 
tailored the application of the Federal Reserve’s enhanced 
prudential standards to large banking organizations. Although the 
Tailoring Rules and other recent changes to capital- and liquidity-
related rules generally have simplified the regulatory framework 
applicable to the Company, future changes to the implementation 
of these rules including the stress capital buffer, or additional 
capital- and liquidity-related rules, could require the Company to 
take further steps to increase its capital, increase its investment 
security holdings, divest assets or operations, or otherwise change 
aspects of its capital and/or liquidity measures, including in ways 
that may be dilutive to shareholders or could limit the Company’s 
ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase its common 
stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to its customers. 
The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions by the 
Federal Reserve have in the past limited and may in the future 
limit capital distributions, including suspension of the Company’s 
share repurchase program or reduction or suspension of the 
Company’s common stock dividend. 

In addition, in connection with the Company’s acquisition of 
MUB, the Company committed to submit to the Federal Reserve 
quarterly implementation plans for complying with requirements 
application to “Category II” institutions (i.e., institutions with 
$700 billion or more in total assets or $75 billion or more in cross-
jurisdictional activities). The Company also committed to meet 
requirements applicable to Category II institutions by the earlier of 
(1) the date required under the Tailoring Rules and 
(2) December 31, 2024, if the Federal Reserve notifies the 
Company by January 1, 2024, that the Company must comply 
with such rules. As a Category II institution (whether obligated by 
rule or Federal Reserve notice), the Company would be subject to 
the full LCR and NSFR requirements, which would require the 
Company to maintain higher amounts of liquidity than are 
currently required. The Company would also be required to 
conduct more frequent company-run stress tests. In addition, the 
Company would be subject to more stringent risk-based capital 
requirements. These and other requirements that would apply to 
the Company after it becomes a Category II institution likely 
would result in additional compliance and other costs that may 
adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 

Further, on October 14, 2022, the Federal Reserve published 
an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) that together 
with the FDIC solicits public comment on potential changes to the 
resolution-related standards applicable to certain large banking 
organizations that are not globally systemically important banks 
(or GSIBs) such as the Company. The ANPR broadly focuses on 
whether and how certain elements of the GSIB resolution-related 
standards could be modified and applied to preserve optionality 
during the resolution of large banking organizations that are not 
GSIBs and address financial stability risks that may be associated 
with the material financial distress or failure of such organizations. 
In particular, the ANPR focuses on the potential imposition of a 
“long-term debt requirement” either at the holding company or 
bank level. If a long-term debt requirement was adopted, the 
Company may need to change its current funding mix, including 
being required to raise additional long-term debt, which could 
adversely impact net interest margin and net interest income. 

Additional capital and liquidity requirements may be imposed 
in the future. In December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized a 
package of revisions to the Basel III framework. The changes are 
meant to improve the calculation of risk-weighted assets and the 
comparability of capital ratios. Federal banking regulators are 
expected to undertake rule-makings in future years to implement 
these revisions in the United States. The ultimate impact of 
revisions to the Basel III–based framework in the United States on 
the Company’s capital and liquidity will depend on the final rule-
makings and the implementation process thereafter. 

Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding 
the Company’s capital and liquidity requirements. 

The Company is subject to significant financial and 
reputation risks from potential legal liability and 
governmental actions The Company faces significant legal 
risks in its businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of 
damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental 
proceedings against it and other financial institutions are 
substantial. Customers, clients and other counterparties are 
making claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of 
damages, while banking regulators and certain other 
governmental authorities have focused on enforcement. The 
Company is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in 
many legal proceedings, including class actions and other 
litigation. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is 
likely that the Company will continue to experience a high level of 
litigation and government scrutiny related to its businesses and 
operations in the future. Substantial legal liability or significant 
governmental action against the Company could materially 
impact the Company’s financial condition and results of 
operations (including because such matters may be resolved for 
amounts that exceed established accruals for a particular period) 
or cause significant reputational harm to the Company. 
Since 2020, many financial institutions, including the 

Company, have received regulatory and governmental inquiries 

149 

regarding participation directly or on behalf of customers and 
clients in United States government programs designed to 
support individuals, households and businesses impacted by the 
economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
Company’s participation in these and other programs used in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic may lead to additional 
government and regulatory inquiries and litigation in the future, 
any of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, 
reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 

Although, under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement 

for the Company’s acquisition of MUB, the Company may be 
entitled to indemnification from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, 
Inc. for certain losses, as the acquiror of MUB, the Company 
assumed MUB’s liabilities as part of the acquisition, which 
includes, as a condition to the regulatory approval for the 
transaction, ensuring ongoing compliance with an OCC consent 
order relating to MUB’s technology and operational risk 
management, and could also include other liabilities related to 
MUB’s compliance with banking law. Such liabilities could result 
in additional regulatory scrutiny, constraints on the Company’s 
business, or enforcement actions, including civil money penalties 
or fines. Any of those events could have a material adverse 
impact on the Company’s future operations, financial condition, 
growth, or other aspects of its business. 

The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage 
loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties 
When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to 
various parties, including GSEs, it is required to make customary 
representations and warranties to the purchaser about the 
mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. 
The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 
be subject to indemnification claims in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 
within a certain period. Contracts for residential mortgage loan 
sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 
penalties that could be applied if the Company does not 
adequately respond to repurchase requests. If economic 
conditions and the housing market deteriorate or the GSEs 
increase their claims for breached representations and 
warranties, the Company could have increased repurchase 
obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring 
material increases to its repurchase reserve. 

The Company’s failure to satisfy its obligations as servicer 
for automobile loan securitizations and residential 
mortgage loans owned by other entities, and other losses 
the Company could incur as servicer, could adversely 
impact the Company’s reputation, servicing costs or 
results of operations The Company services automobile loans 
on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and also acts as 
servicer and master servicer for mortgage loans included in 
securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by 
investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans, the 

Company has certain contractual obligations to the securitization 
trusts, investors, or other third parties. As a servicer, the 
Company’s obligations include foreclosing on defaulted loans or, 
to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other 
investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such 
as loan modifications or short sales, as applicable. In the 
Company’s capacity as a master servicer, obligations include 
overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. 
Generally, the Company’s servicing obligations are set by 
contract, for which the Company receives a contractual fee. 
However, with respect to mortgage loans, GSEs can amend their 
servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the 
services required without any corresponding increase in the 
Company’s servicing fee. As a servicer, the Company also 
advances expenses on behalf of investors which it may be unable 
to collect. A material breach of the Company’s obligations as 
servicer or master servicer may result in contract termination if the 
breach is not cured within a specified period of time following 
notice. In addition, the Company may be required to indemnify 
the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by the 
Company, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform the 
Company’s servicing obligations or any act or omission on the 
Company’s part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or 
gross negligence. For certain investors and certain transactions, 
the Company may be contractually obligated to repurchase a 
mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred 
on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the 
loan. The Company may be subject to increased repurchase 
obligations as a result of claims made that the Company did not 
satisfy its obligations as a servicer or master servicer. The 
Company may also experience increased loss severity on 
repurchases, which may require a material increase to the 
Company’s repurchase reserve. The Company has and may 
continue to receive indemnification requests related to the 
Company’s servicing of mortgage loans owned or insured by 
other parties, primarily GSEs. 

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk 
Heightened credit risk could require the Company to 
increase its provision for credit losses, which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of 
operations and financial condition When the Company lends 
money, or commits to lend money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk 
of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the 
largest lenders in the United States, the credit performance of the 
Company’s loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results 
and condition. If the current economic environment were to 
further deteriorate, the Company’s customers may have more 
difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations, which could 
result in a higher level of credit losses and higher provisions for 
credit losses. Stress on the United States economy or the local 
economies in which the Company does business, including the 
economic stress caused by the pandemic, supply chain 

150 

disruptions, escalating geopolitical tensions and higher interest 
rates and inflation, has resulted, and in the future may result, in, 
among other things, borrowers’ inability to refinance loans at 
maturity and unexpected deterioration in credit quality of the loan 
portfolio or in the value of collateral securing those loans, which 
has caused, and in the future could cause, the Company to 
establish higher provisions for credit losses. 

The Company reserves for credit losses by establishing an 

allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan 
defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s allowance for loan 
losses is compliant with the CECL methodology, which is based 
on the portfolio’s historical loss experience, an evaluation of the 
risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and 
composition of the loan portfolio, current and foreseeable 
economic conditions and borrower and collateral quality. These 
conditions inform the Company’s expected lifetime loss estimates 
of the portfolio, which is the foundation for the allowance for 
credit losses. These forecasts and estimates require difficult, 
subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of 
economic conditions and how these economic predictions might 
impair the ability of the Company’s borrowers to repay their 
loans. The Company may not be able to accurately predict these 
economic conditions and/or some or all of their effects, which 
may, in turn, negatively impact the reliability of the process. The 
Company also makes loans to borrowers where it does not have 
or service the loan with the first lien on the property securing its 
loan. For loans in a junior lien position, the Company may not 
have access to information on the position or performance of the 
first lien when it is held and serviced by a third party, which may 
adversely affect the accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of 
these types. Increases in the Company’s allowance for loan 
losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and 
future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely 
affect its financial results. In addition, the Company’s ability to 
assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if 
the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and 
underwrite its customers become less predictive of future 
behaviors. 

A concentration of credit and market risk in the Company’s 
loan portfolio could increase the potential for significant 
losses The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience 
higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by 
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 
borrower or collateral. For example, the Company’s credit risk 
and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in similar 
activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic 
or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related 
to climate change. Deterioration in economic conditions or real 
estate values in states or regions where the Company has 
relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real 
estate could result in higher credit costs. For example, the 
Company’s acquisition of MUB has increased the Company’s 
exposure to the markets in California. Deterioration in real estate 

values and underlying economic conditions in California could 
result in higher credit losses to the Company. 

Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the 
Company’s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held 
for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue 
volatile from quarter to quarter, which can reduce its 
earnings The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, which is the 
right to service a mortgage loan—collect principal, interest and 
escrow amounts—for a fee, with a fair value of $3.8 billion as of 
December 31, 2022. The Company initially carries its MSRs using 
a fair value measurement of the present value of the estimated 
future net servicing income, which includes assumptions about 
the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest 
rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. 
When interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as 
borrowers refinance, and the fair value of MSRs can decrease, 
which in turn reduces the Company’s earnings. Further, it is 
possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or 
deteriorating housing market, even when interest rates fall, 
mortgage originations may fall or any increase in mortgage 
originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the 
MSRs’ value caused by the lower rates. 

The Company relies on the mortgage secondary market 
and GSEs for some of the Company’s revenue and liquidity 
The Company sells a portion of the mortgage loans that it 
originates to increase revenue through origination fees and 
ongoing servicing of such loans and to provide funding capacity 
for originating additional loans. GSEs could limit their purchases 
of conforming loans due to capital constraints, other changes in 
their criteria for conforming loans or other reasons. This potential 
reduction in purchases could limit the Company’s ability to fund 
new loans. In addition, if GSEs limited their purchases of 
conforming loans, the Company may limit its originations of 
mortgage loans that it intends to sell, which could reduce the 
Company’s revenue from origination fees of such loans and the 
ongoing servicing fees it receives from such loans. Proposals 
have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the 
U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance 
market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of 
the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect 
on the Company’s business and financial results, are uncertain. 

A decline in the soundness of other financial institutions 
could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations 
The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement 
transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and 
commercial soundness of other domestic or foreign financial 
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a 
result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The 
Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the 
Company routinely executes and settles transactions with 
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers 
and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and 

151 

hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults 
by, or even rumors or questions about, the soundness of one or 
more financial services institutions, or the financial services 
industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the 
Company or by other institutions and impact the Company’s 
predominately United States–based businesses or the less 
significant merchant processing, corporate trust and fund 
administration services businesses it operates in foreign 
countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to 
credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In 
addition, the Company’s credit risk may be further increased 
when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon 
or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of 
the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is no 
assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect the 
Company’s results of operations. 

Change in residual value of leased assets may have an 
adverse impact on the Company’s financial results The 
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk 
that the residual value of the property under lease will be less 
than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in 
the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on 
the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the 
realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual 
values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s 
control, including supply and demand for the assets, condition of 
the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic 
factors. 

Liquidity Risk 
If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, its 
business could suffer The Company’s liquidity is essential for 
the operation of its business. Market conditions, the threat or 
occurrence of a U.S. sovereign default, unforeseen outflows of 
funds or other events could negatively affect the Company’s level 
or cost of funding, affecting its ongoing ability to accommodate 
liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual 
obligations, and fund asset growth and new business 
transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If the 
Company’s access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, 
such as customer deposits, is reduced, the Company might need 
to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of 
limited availability. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged 
changes in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the 
Company’s business. 

Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company’s 
funding costs The Company relies on bank deposits to be a 
low-cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes 
with banks and other financial services companies for deposits, 
including those that offer on-line channels. Recent increases in 

short-term interest rates have resulted in and are expected to 
continue to result in more intense competition in deposit pricing. If 
the Company’s competitors raise the interest rates they pay on 
deposits, the Company’s funding costs may increase, either 
because the Company raises the interest rates it pays on 
deposits to avoid losing deposits to competitors or because the 
Company loses deposits to competitors and must rely on more 
expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the 
Company’s net interest margin and net interest income. Checking 
and savings account balances and other forms of customer 
deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative 
investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/ 
return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank 
deposits and into other investments, the Company may lose a 
relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing the Company’s 
funding costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income. 

The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for 
its liquidity needs, and the payment of those dividends is 
limited by laws and regulations The Company is a separate 
and distinct legal entity from USBNA, MUB and the Company’s 
non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives a significant 
portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These 
dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on 
the Company’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. 
Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of 
dividends that USBNA, MUB and certain of the Company’s 
non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without 
regulatory approval. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a 
distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s 
creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company’s claims 
as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized. Refer to 
“Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information regarding limitations on the 
amount of dividends USBNA and MUB may pay. 

Competitive and Strategic Risk 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, and 
competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect 
the Company’s financial results The Company operates in a 
highly competitive industry that could become even more 
competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological 
changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may 
increase in connection with current economic and market 
conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-
capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are 
capable of offering a wider array of financial products and 
services at more competitive prices. The Company competes 
with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, 
mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking 

152 

companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card 
companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory 
companies. Legislative or regulatory changes also could lead to 
increased competition in the financial services sector. For 
example, the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules have 
reduced the regulatory burden of large bank holding companies, 
including the Company and some of its competitors, and raised 
the asset thresholds at which more onerous requirements apply, 
which could cause certain large bank holding companies with 
less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, which were 
previously subject to more stringent enhanced prudential 
standards, to become more competitive or to pursue expansion 
more aggressively. 

The adoption and rapid growth of new technologies, including 

cryptocurrencies and blockchain and other distributed ledger 
technologies, have required the Company to invest resources to 
adapt its systems, products and services, and it expects to 
continue to make similar investments. In addition, technology has 
lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to 
offer products and services, such as loans and payment services, 
that traditionally were banking products, and made it possible for 
technology companies to compete with financial institutions in 
providing electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone–based 
financial solutions. Competition with non-banks, including 
technology companies, to provide financial products and services 
is intensifying. In particular, the activity of financial technology 
companies (“fintechs”) has grown significantly over recent years 
and is expected to continue to grow. Fintechs have and may 
continue to offer bank or bank-like products. For example, a 
number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan 
charters, which, in some cases, have been granted. In addition, 
other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to 
offer deposit products or payment services to their customers. 
Many of these companies, including the Company’s competitors, 
have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost 
structures, in part due to lack of physical structures. Also, the 
potential need to adapt to industry changes in information 
technology systems, on which the Company and financial 
services industry are highly dependent, could present operational 
issues and require capital spending. The Company’s ability to 
compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, 
among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic plans 
and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term 
customer relationships based on quality service, competitive 
prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and 
industry and general economic trends. A failure to compete 
effectively could contribute to downward price pressure on the 
Company’s products or services or a loss of market share. 

The Company may need to lower prices on existing 
products and services and develop and introduce new 
products and services to maintain market share The 
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its 
products and services to evolving industry standards. There is 
increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower 

prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company’s net interest 
margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In 
addition, the adoption of new technologies or further 
developments in current technologies require the Company to 
make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing 
products and services. Also, these and other capital investments 
in the Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth 
in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The 
Company might not be successful in developing or introducing 
new products and services, adapting to changing customer 
preferences and spending and saving habits (which may be 
altered significantly and with little warning), achieving market 
acceptance of its products and services, or sufficiently developing 
and maintaining loyal customer relationships. 

The Company may not be able to complete future 
acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not produce 
revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within 
timeframes originally anticipated, may result in unforeseen 
integration difficulties, and may dilute existing 
shareholders’ interests The Company regularly explores 
opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets 
and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or 
financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, 
size or timing of acquisitions it might pursue. 

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory 
approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. 
The Company’s ability to pursue or complete an attractive 
acquisition could be negatively impacted by regulatory delay or 
other regulatory issues. The Company cannot be certain when or 
if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory 
approvals will be granted. For example, the Company may be 
required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory 
approval for bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain 
regulatory violations, including those that result in a downgrade in 
certain of the Company’s bank regulatory ratings, governmental 
authorities could, as a consequence, preclude it from pursuing 
future acquisitions for a period of time. 

There can be no assurance that acquisitions the Company 
completes, including its recently completed acquisition of MUB, 
will have the anticipated positive results, including results related 
to expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in 
geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits. 
The Company may incur substantial expenses related to 
acquisitions and integration of acquired companies. Successful 
integration of an acquired company, including MUB, may present 
challenges due to differences in systems, operations, policies and 
procedures, management teams and corporate cultures and may 
be more costly or difficult to complete than anticipated or have 
unanticipated adverse results. Integration efforts could divert 
management’s attention and resources, which could adversely 
affect the Company’s operations or results. Integration efforts 
could result in higher than expected customer loss, deposit 
attrition, loss of key employees, issues with systems and 
technology, disruption of the Company’s businesses or the 

153 

businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely 
affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with 
customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of 
the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures 
required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business 
combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, future 
acquisitions may also expose the Company to increased legal or 
regulatory risks. Finally, future acquisitions could be material to 
the Company, and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay 
for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ 
ownership interests. 

Accounting and Tax Risk 
The Company’s reported financial results depend on 
management’s selection of accounting methods and 
certain assumptions and estimates, which, if incorrect, 
could cause unexpected losses in the future The Company’s 
accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the 
Company records and reports its financial condition and results 
of operations. The Company’s management must exercise 
judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting 
policies and methods, so they comply with generally accepted 
accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment 
regarding the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s 
financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, 
management must select the accounting policy or method to 
apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 
reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the 
Company’s reporting materially different results than would have 
been reported under a different alternative. 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. They 
require management to make difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different 
amounts could be reported under different conditions or using 
different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting 
policies include the allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair 
value, the valuation of MSRs, and income taxes. Because of the 
uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company 
may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly 
increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit 
losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, 
recognize significant losses on the remeasurement of certain 
asset and liability balances, or significantly increase its accrued 
taxes liability. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting 
Policies” in this Annual Report. 

The Company’s investments in certain tax-advantaged 
projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may 
have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results 
The Company invests in certain tax-advantaged projects 
promoting affordable housing, community development and 
renewable energy resources. The Company’s investments in 
these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through 

the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other 
tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is subject 
to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain 
subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance 
features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet 
certain government compliance requirements and will not be able 
to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credit and 
other tax benefits can have a negative impact on the Company’s 
financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax 
credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside 
of the Company’s control, including changes in the applicable tax 
code and the ability of the projects to be completed. 

General Risk Factors 
The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be 
effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company The 
Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk 
and loss. The Company has established processes and 
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and 
analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity 
risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, 
strategic risk, reputation risk, and operational risk related to its 
employees, systems and vendors, among others. However, as 
with any risk management framework, there are inherent 
limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there 
may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not 
appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company 
relies on quantitative models to measure certain risks and to 
estimate certain financial values, and these models could fail to 
predict future events or exposures accurately. The Company 
must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management 
among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with 
third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s 
risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company 
could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and 
suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or 
results of operations. 

The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to attract 
and retain skilled employees The Company’s success 
depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key 
employees. Competition for the best people in most activities the 
Company engages in can be intense. 

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant 

impact on the longer-term labor and employment market, 
including heightened pressures on employers to increase 
compensation and provide work-from-home, hybrid and other 
flexible working arrangements. Employees have shifted their 
focus to expectations that extend beyond compensation, 
including better work-life balance, improved advancement 
opportunities and improved training, and many businesses, 
including the Company, have had to adapt quickly to the 
changing environment. The Company’s ability to compete 
successfully for talent has been and may continue to be affected 

154 

by its ability to adapt quickly to such shifts in employee focus, 
and there is no assurance that these developments will not cause 
increased turnover or impede the Company’s ability to retain and 
attract the highest caliber employees. 

A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could have a 
material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding costs and 
access to capital markets The Company’s credit ratings, 
which are subject to credit agencies’ ongoing review of a number 
of factors, including factors not within the Company’s control 
such as the threat or occurrence of a U.S. sovereign default, are 
important to the Company’s liquidity. A reduction in one or more 
of the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, 
increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital 
markets. Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of 
investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or 
otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Company, thereby 

adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. There 
can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current 
ratings and outlooks. 

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact 
the Company’s financial statements From time to time, the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 
of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be 
hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company 
records and reports its financial condition and results of 
operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or 
revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard 
differently, on a retroactive basis, in each case potentially 
resulting in the Company restating prior period financial 
statements. 

155 

