 ITEM 1. B USINESS 

General 

New York Community Bancorp, Inc., (on a stand-alone basis, the &#8220;Parent Company&#8221; or, collectively with its subsidiaries, the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was organized under Delaware law on July 20, 1993 and is the bank holding company for New York Community Bank (hereinafter referred to as the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). Formerly known as Queens County Savings Bank, the Bank converted from a state-chartered mutual savings bank to the capital stock form of ownership on November 23, 1993, at which date the Company completed its initial offering of common stock (par value: $0.01 per share) at a price of $25.00 per share ($0.93 per share on a split-adjusted basis, reflecting the impact of nine stock splits between 1994 and 2004). 

New York Community Bank 

Established in 1859, the Bank is a New York State-chartered savings bank with 237 branches that currently operates through eight local divisions: Queens County Savings Bank, Roslyn Savings Bank, Richmond County Savings Bank, Roosevelt Savings Bank, and Atlantic Bank in New York; Garden State Community Bank in New Jersey; Ohio Savings Bank in Ohio: and AmTrust Bank in Florida and Arizona. We compete for depositors in these diverse markets by emphasizing service and convenience, with a comprehensive menu of products and services, and access to multiple service channels, including online banking, mobile banking, and banking by phone. 

We are a leading producer of multi-family loans in New York City, with an emphasis on non-luxury residential apartment buildings with rent-regulated units that feature rents that are below non-regulated units. In addition to multi-family loans, which are our principal asset, we originate CRE loans (primarily in New York City), specialty finance loans and leases, and, to a much lesser extent, ADC loans, and C&#38;I loans (typically made to small and mid-size business in Metro New York). 

Online Information about the Company and the Bank 

We serve our customers through our website: www.myNYCB.com. In addition to providing our customers with 24-hour access to their accounts, and information regarding our products and services, hours of service, and locations, the website provides extensive information about the Company for the investment community. Earnings releases, dividend announcements, and other press releases are posted upon issuance to the Investor Relations portion of the website, which can be found at www.ir.myNYCB.com. 

In addition, our filings with the SEC (including our annual report on Form 10-K; our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and our current reports on Form 8-K), and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available without charge, and are posted to the Investor Relations portion of our website. The website also provides information regarding our Board of Directors and management team, as well as certain Board Committee charters and our corporate governance policies. The content of our website shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

Our Market 

Our current market for deposits consists of the 26 counties in the five states that are served by our branch network, including all five boroughs of New York City, Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island, and Westchester County in New York; Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union Counties in New Jersey; Maricopa and Yavapai Counties in Arizona; Cuyahoga, Lake, and Summit Counties in Ohio; and Broward, Collier, Lee, Miami-Dade, Palm Beach, and St. Lucie Counties in Florida. 

The market for the loans we produce varies, depending on the type of loan. For example, the vast majority of our multi-family loans are collateralized by rental apartment buildings in New York City, which is also home to the majority of the properties collateralizing our CRE and ADC loans. In contrast, our specialty finance loans and leases are generally made to large corporate obligors that participate in stable industries nationwide. 

&#160; 

Competition for Deposits 

The combined population of the 26 counties where our branches are located is approximately 31.7 million, and the number of banks and thrifts we compete with currently exceeds 350. With total deposits of $35.1 billion at December 31, 2021, we ranked in the top 20 among all bank and thrift depositories serving these 26 counties. We also ranked third among all banks and thrifts in Richmond County in New York, fifth among all banks and thrifts in Queens County in New York, and second among all banks and thrifts in Nassau County in New York (market share information was provided by S&#38;P Global Market Intelligence). 

We compete for deposits and customers by placing an emphasis on convenience and service and, from time to time, by offering specific products at highly competitive rates. In addition to our 237 branches, we have 333 ATM locations, including 220 that operate 24 hours a day, and 66 that are off-site ATMs. Our customers also have 24-hour access to their accounts through our mobile banking app, online through our website, www.myNYCB.com , or through our bank-by-phone service. We also offer certain money market accounts, certificates of deposit (&#8220;CDs&#8221;), and checking accounts through a dedicated website: www.myBankingDirect.com. 

In addition to checking and savings accounts, retirement accounts, and CDs for both businesses and consumers, we offer a suite of cash management products to address the needs of small and mid-size businesses and professional associations. We also compete by complementing our broad selection of traditional banking products with an extensive menu of non-deposit investment products and insurance through a relationship with a third-party broker dealer and insurance agency. 

Our ability to attract and retain deposits is not only a function of short-term interest rates and industry consolidation, but also the competitiveness of the rates being offered by other financial institutions within our marketplace, including credit unions, on-line banks, and brokerage firms. Additionally, financial technology companies, also referred to as FinTechs, are providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong competition for deposits and customers. 

Competition for deposits is also influenced by several internal factors, including the opportunity to assume or acquire deposits through business combinations; the cash flows produced through loan and securities repayments and sales; and the availability of attractively priced wholesale funds. In addition, the degree to which we seek to compete for deposits is influenced by the liquidity needed to fund our loan production and other outstanding commitments. 

One of our competitive advantages is our strong community presence and commitment to providing a high level of customer service in each of our markets. In 2021, the Bank was named the number one bank in the country for best overall customer experience based on a survey conducted by American Banker and creative experience firm Monigle. 

Competition for Loans 

Our success as a lender is substantially tied to the economic health of the markets where we lend. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on loan demand, the value of the collateral securing our credits, and the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. 

The competition we face for loans also varies with the type of loan we are originating. In New York City, where the majority of the buildings collateralizing our multi-family loans are located, we compete for such loans on the basis of timely service and the expertise that stems from being a specialist in this lending niche. In addition to the money center, regional, and local banks we compete with in this market, we compete with insurance companies and other types of lenders. Certain of the banks we compete with sell the loans they produce to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Our ability to compete for CRE loans depends on the same factors that impact our ability to compete for multi-family credits, and the degree to which other CRE lenders choose to offer loan products similar to ours. 

Competition for our specialty finance loans, which consist primarily of asset-based, equipment financing, and dealer floor plan loans, is driven by a variety of factors, including prevailing economic conditions and the level of interest rates. Moreover, since a majority of our customers in this category are mid-to-large size publicly traded companies, we also face competition for financing from the capital markets. In addition, the majority of specialty 

&#160; 

finance loans that we originate are sourced from larger financial institutions who have many customers for these loans. Some of these customers are larger and have more capital and liquidity than the Company. 

While we continue to originate ADC and C&#38;I loans for investment, such loans represent a small portion of our loan portfolio as compared to multi-family, CRE loans, and specialty finance loans. 

Monetary Policy 

The Company and the Bank are affected by fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, including those of the FRB which regulates the national money supply in order to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures. Among the techniques available to the FRB are engaging in open market transactions of U.S. Government securities, changing the discount rate and changing reserve requirements against bank deposits. These techniques are used in varying combinations to influence the overall growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits. Their use may also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The effect of government policies on the earnings of the Company and the Bank cannot be predicted. 

Environmental Issues 

We encounter certain environmental risks in our lending activities and other operations. The existence of hazardous materials may make it unattractive for a lender to foreclose on the properties securing its loans. In addition, under certain conditions, lenders may become liable for the costs of cleaning up hazardous materials found on such properties. We attempt to mitigate such environmental risks by requiring either that a borrower purchase environmental insurance or that an appropriate environmental site assessment be completed as part of our underwriting review on the initial granting of CRE and ADC loans, regardless of location, and of any out-of-state multi-family loans we may produce. Depending on the results of an assessment, appropriate measures are taken to address the identified risks. In addition, we order an updated environmental analysis prior to foreclosing on such properties, and typically hold foreclosed multi-family, CRE, and ADC properties in subsidiaries. 

Our attention to environmental risks also applies to the properties and facilities that house our bank operations. Prior to acquiring a large-scale property, a Phase 1 Environmental Property Assessment is typically performed by a licensed professional engineer to determine the integrity of, and/or the potential risk associated with, the facility and the property on which it is built. Properties and facilities of a smaller scale are evaluated by qualified in-house assessors, as well as by industry experts in environmental testing and remediation. This two-pronged approach identifies potential risks associated with asbestos-containing material, above and underground storage tanks, radon, electrical transformers (which may contain PCBs), ground water flow, storm and sanitary discharge, and mold, among other environmental risks. These processes assist us in mitigating environmental risk by enabling us to identify and address potential issues, including by avoiding taking ownership or control of contaminated properties. 

Subsidiary A ctivities 

The Bank has formed, or acquired through merger transactions, 19 active subsidiary corporations. Of these, 11 are direct subsidiaries of the Bank and eight are subsidiaries of Bank-owned entities. 

&#160; 

The 11 direct subsidiaries of the Bank are: 

&#160; 

##TABLE_START Name 

Jurisdiction of Organization 

Purpose 

100 Duffy Realty, LLC 

New York 

Owns a building containing back-office and a branch. 

Beta Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Holding company for Omega Commercial Mortgage Corp. and Long Island Commercial Capital Corp. 

BSR 1400 Corp. 

New York 

Organized to own interests in real estate. 

Ferry Development Holding Company 

Delaware 

Formed to hold and manage investment portfolios for the Company. 

NYCB Specialty Finance Company, LLC 

Delaware 

Originates asset-based, equipment financing, and dealer-floor plan loans. 

NYB Realty Holding Company, LLC 

New York 

Holding company for subsidiaries owning an interest in real estate. 

NYCB Insurance Agency, Inc. 

New York 

Sells non-deposit investment products. 

Pacific Urban Renewal, Inc. 

New Jersey 

Owns a branch building. 

Synergy Capital Investments, Inc. 

New Jersey 

Formed to hold and manage investment portfolios for the Company. 

NYCB Mortgage Company, LLC 

Delaware 

Holding company for Walnut Realty Holding Company, LLC. 

Woodhaven Investments, LLC 

Delaware 

Holding company for Ironbound Investment Company, LLC. and 1400 Corp. 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

The eight subsidiaries of Bank-owned entities are: 

&#160; 

##TABLE_START Name 

Jurisdiction of Organization 

Purpose 

1400 Corp. 

New York 

Holding company for Roslyn Real Estate Asset Corp. 

Ironbound Investment Company, LLC. 

Florida 

Organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets. 

Long Island Commercial Capital Corporation 

New York 

A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets. 

Omega Commercial Mortgage Corp. 

Delaware 

A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets. 

Prospect Realty Holding Company, LLC 

New York 

Owns a back-office building. 

Rational Real Estate II, LLC 

New York 

Owns a back-office building. 

Roslyn Real Estate Asset Corp. 

Delaware 

A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets. 

Walnut Realty Holding Company, LLC 

Delaware 

Owns two back-office buildings. 

##TABLE_END &#160; 

NYB Realty Holding Company, LLC owns interests in ten additional active entities organized as indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries to own interests in various real estate properties. 

The Parent Company owns special business trusts that were formed for the purpose of issuing capital and common securities and investing the proceeds thereof in the junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. See Note 9, &#8220;Borrowed Funds,&#8221; in Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; for a further discussion of the Company&#8217;s special business trusts. The Parent Company also has one non-banking subsidiary that was established in connection with the acquisition of Atlantic Bank of New York. 

Human Capital 

At December 31, 2021, our workforce included 2,815 employees, including 1,493 retail employees and 1,322 back office employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our employee relations to be good. 

&#160; 

We believe our employees are among our most significant resources and that our employees are critical to our continued success. We focus significant attention on attracting and retaining talented and experienced individuals to manage and support our operations. We pay our employees competitively and offer a broad range of benefits, both of which we believe are competitive with our industry peers and with other firms in the locations in which we do business. Our employees receive salaries that are subject to annual review and periodic benchmarking. Our benefits program includes a 401(k) Plan with an employer matching contribution, healthcare and other insurance benefits, flexible spending accounts and paid time off. Many of our employees are also eligible to participate in the Company&#8217;s equity award program. 

We are proud to maintain a diverse and inclusive workforce that reflects the demographics of the communities in which we do business. Our company recognizes that the talents of a diverse workforce are a key competitive advantage. To increase diversity within our talent pool, we work with key stakeholders in our business locations to deepen our understanding of the local labor market and better position the organization to recruit and retain talent within under-represented communities. 

We strive to create and foster a supportive environment for all of our employees, and we are proud to share our business success with individuals whose cultural and personal differences support an innovative and productive workplace. Our workforce is 33% male and 67% female and women represent 47% of the Company&#8217;s leadership (defined to include employees at the level of vice president and above). In addition, for those employees identifying as such, approximately 49% of our workforce have diverse ethnic backgrounds. Our policies and practices reflect our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. 

Our management teams and all of our employees are expected to exhibit and promote honest, ethical and respectful conduct in the workplace. All of our employees must adhere to a code of conduct that sets standards for appropriate behavior and all employees are required to complete annual training that focuses on preventing, identifying, reporting and stopping any type of unlawful discrimination. 

The health and safety of our employees is also of critical importance. In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented a flexible response plan that includes the transitioning of certain back office employees to a remote work model, as conditions warrant while implementing additional safety protocols for employees who, due to the nature of their positions, continue to work on-site. We maintain strict compliance with federal, state and local requirements that enhance workplace safety, such as masking and social distancing, and we provide employees who either contract or are exposed to COVID-19 with appropriate leave. 

Federal, State, and Local Taxation 

The Company is subject to federal, state, and local income taxes. See the discussion of &#34;Income Taxes&#34; in Note 2, &#34;Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.&#34; 

Regulation and Supervision 

The following is a brief summary of certain statutes and regulations that significantly affect the Company and its subsidiaries. A number of other statutes and regulations may affect the Company and the Bank but are not discussed in the following paragraphs. 

General 

The Bank is a New York State-chartered savings bank and its deposit accounts are insured under the DIF of the FDIC up to applicable legal limits. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, the Bank was subject to regulation and supervision by the NYSDFS, as its chartering agency; by the FDIC, as primary federal supervisor for all state-chartered banks and savings institutions that are not members of the Federal Reserve System and by the CFPB. 

The Bank is required to file reports with the NYSDFS, the FDIC, and the CFPB concerning its activities and financial condition, and is periodically examined by the NYSDFS, the FDIC, and the CFPB to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements, including with respect to safety and soundness and consumer financial protection regulations. The regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification 

&#160; 

of assets and the establishment of an adequate allowance for credit losses on loans and leases for regulatory purposes. Changes in such regulations or in banking legislation could have a material impact on the Company, the Bank, and their operations, as well as the Company&#8217;s stockholders. 

The Company is subject to examination, regulation, and periodic reporting under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;) by the FRB. Furthermore, the Company would be required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. 

In addition, the Company is periodically examined by the FRB-NY, and is required to file certain reports under, and otherwise comply with, the rules and regulations of the SEC under federal securities laws. Certain of the regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and the Company are referred to below or elsewhere herein. However, such discussion is not meant to be a complete explanation of all laws and regulations, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

Enacted in July 2010, the DFA significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will continue to affect, into the immediate future, the lending and investment activities and general operations of depository institutions and their holding companies. The DFA is complex and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, and represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. 

The New York Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019 

On June 14, 2019, the New York State Legislature passed the Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019 impacting about one million rent-regulated apartment units. Among other things, the new legislation: (i) curtails rent increases from material capital improvements and Individual Apartment Improvements; (ii) all but eliminates the ability for apartments to exit rent regulation; (iii) does away with vacancy decontrol and high income deregulation; and (iv) repealed the 20% vacancy bonus. While it will take several years for its full impact to be known, the legislation generally limits a landlord&#8217;s ability to increase rents on rent-regulated apartments and makes it more difficult to convert rent regulated apartments to market rent apartments. 

Capital Requirements 

In early July 2013, the FRB and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules to implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and to address relevant provisions of the DFA. Basel III generally refers to two consultative documents released by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2009. The Basel III rules generally refer to the rules adopted by U.S. banking regulators in December 2010 to align U.S. bank capital requirements with Basel III and with the related loss absorbency rules they issued in January 2011, which include significant changes to bank capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements. 

The Basel III rules include new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective January 1, 2015, and revised the definition of what constitutes &#8220;capital&#8221; for the purposes of calculating those ratios. Under Basel III, the Company and the Bank are required to maintain minimum capital in accordance with the following ratios: (i) a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the prior rules); and (iv) a tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. 

In addition, the Basel III rules assign higher risk weights to certain assets, such as the 150% risk weighting assigned to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on non-accrual status, and to certain CRE facilities that finance the acquisition, development, or construction of real property. Basel III also eliminate the inclusion of certain instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from tier 1 capital. In addition, tier 2 capital is no longer limited to the amount of tier 1 capital included in total capital. Mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets, and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries over designated percentages of common stock are required, subject to limitation, to be deducted from capital. Finally, tier 1 capital includes accumulated other comprehensive income, which includes all unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. 

&#160; 

Basel III also established a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; (consisting entirely of common equity tier 1 capital) that is 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements. This resulted in an increase in the minimum common equity tier 1, tier 1, and total capital ratios to 7.0%, 8.5%, and 10.5%, respectively. The capital conservation buffer is now at its fully phased-in level of 2.5%. An institution can be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital levels fall below these amounts. Basel III also establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such capital distributions. 

On September 17, 2019, the FRB, the FDIC, and the OCC issued a final rule designed to reduce regulatory burden by simplifying several requirements in the agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rule. Most aspects of the rule apply only to banking organizations that are not subject to the &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; in the capital rule, which are generally firms with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in total foreign exposure. The rule simplifies and clarifies a number of the more complex aspects of the existing capital rule. Specifically, the rule simplifies the capital treatment for certain mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets, investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions, and minority interests. 

Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;) requires, among other things, that federal bank regulatory authorities take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For such purposes, the law establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. The five capital tiers are described in more detail below. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, an institution that fails to remain &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth, or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The FDICIA also provides for enhanced supervision authority over undercapitalized institutions, including authority for the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution. 

As a result of the Basel III rules, new definitions of the relevant measures for the five capital categories took effect on January 1, 2015. An institution is deemed to be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, and a tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater, and is not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

An institution is deemed to be &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and a tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% or greater. 

An institution is deemed to be &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or a tier 1 leverage ratio of less than 4%. An institution is deemed to be &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, or a tier 1 leverage ratio of less than 3%. An institution is deemed to be &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if it has a ratio of tangible equity (as defined in the regulations) to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. 

&#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to growth, capital distribution (including dividend), and other limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. An institution&#8217;s compliance with such a plan is required to be guaranteed by any company that controls the undercapitalized institution in an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the bank&#8217;s total assets when deemed undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve the status of adequately capitalized. If an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; Significantly undercapitalized institutions are subject to one or more additional restrictions including, but not limited to, an order by the FDIC to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized; requirements to reduce total assets, cease receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, or dismiss directors or officers; and restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, compensation of executive officers, and capital distributions by the parent holding company. 

&#160; 

Beginning 60 days after becoming &#8220;critically undercapitalized,&#8221; critically undercapitalized institutions also may not make any payment of principal or interest on certain subordinated debt, extend credit for a highly leveraged transaction, or enter into any material transaction outside the ordinary course of business. In addition, subject to a narrow exception, the appointment of a receiver is required for a critically undercapitalized institution within 270 days after it obtains such status. 

As of December 31, 2021, each of the Bank&#8217;s capital ratios exceeded those required for an institution to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under these regulations. 

Stress Testing 

Stress Testing for Category IV U.S. Banking Organizations 

In 2019, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Board&#8221;) finalized a framework that sorts large banking organizations into one of four categories of prudential standards based on their risk profiles (the &#8220;tailoring rule&#8221;). The most stringent prudential standards apply under Category I (defined as U.S. Global Systemically Important Banks and their depository institution subsidiaries), and the least stringent prudential standards apply under Category IV (defined as U.S. banking organizations with $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion in total assets and have less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, or off-balance sheet exposure). &#160; 

In January 2021, the Board finalized a rule to update capital planning requirements for large banks to be consistent with the tailoring rule. The Board's capital planning requirements for large banks help ensure they plan for and determine their capital needs under a range of different scenarios. The rule removes the company-run stress test requirement for banking organizations subject to Category IV standards. Therefore, banking organizations subject to Category IV standards are not required to calculate forward-looking projections of capital under scenarios provided by the Board. 

The rule also aligns the frequency of the calculation of the stress capital buffer requirement with the frequency of the supervisory stress test (that is, both would occur every other year for banking organizations subject to Category IV standards). The rule allows a banking organization subject to Category IV standards to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test in a year in which the banking organization would not otherwise be subject to the supervisory stress test, and to receive an updated stress capital buffer requirement in that year. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

Federal law requires each federal banking agency to prescribe, for the depository institutions under its jurisdiction, standards that relate to, among other things, internal controls; information and audit systems; loan documentation; credit underwriting; the monitoring of interest rate risk; asset growth; compensation; fees and benefits; and such other operational and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. The federal banking agencies adopted final regulations and Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness (the &#8220;Guidelines&#8221;) to implement these safety and soundness standards. The Guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the Guidelines, the agency may require the institution to provide it with an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard, as required by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, (the &#8220;FDI Act&#8221;). 

FDIC Regulations 

The discussion that follows pertains to FDIC regulations other than those already discussed on the preceding pages. 

&#160; 

Real Estate Lending Standards 

The FDIC and the other federal banking agencies have adopted regulations that prescribe standards for extensions of credit that (i) are secured by real estate, or (ii) are made for the purpose of financing construction or improvements on real estate. The FDIC regulations require each institution to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending standards that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices, and appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its real estate lending activities. The standards also must be consistent with accompanying FDIC Guidelines, which include loan-to-value limitations for the different types of real estate loans. Institutions are also permitted to make a limited amount of loans that do not conform to the proposed loan-to-value limitations as long as such exceptions are reviewed and justified appropriately. The FDIC Guidelines also list a number of lending situations in which exceptions to the loan-to-value standards are justified. 

The FDIC, the OCC, and the FRB (collectively, the &#8220;Agencies&#8221;) also have issued joint guidance entitled &#8220;Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices&#8221; (the &#8220;CRE Guidance&#8221;). The CRE Guidance, which addresses land development, construction, and certain multi-family loans, as well as CRE loans, does not establish specific lending limits but, rather, reinforces and enhances the Agencies&#8217; existing regulations and guidelines for such lending and portfolio management. Specifically, the CRE Guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in CRE lending if (1) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total risk-based capital; or (2) total reported loans secured by multi-family properties, non-farm non-residential properties (excluding those that are owner-occupied), and loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 300% or more of total risk-based capital and the bank&#8217;s CRE loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices that address key elements, including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of CRE lending. 

On December 13, 2019, the Agencies issued a final rule, which became effective on April 1, 2020, to modify the agencies&#8217; capital rules for high volatility CRE (&#8220;HVCRE&#8221;) exposures, as required by the EGRRCPA. The final rule revises the definition of HVCRE exposure to make it consistent with the statutory definition of the term included in Section 214 of the EGRRCPA, which excludes any loan made before January 1, 2015. The revised HVCRE exposure definition differs from the previous definition primarily in two ways. First, the previous definition applied to loans that financed ADC activities, whereas the new definition only applies to loans that &#8220;primarily&#8221; finance ADC activities and that are secured by land or improved real estate. This change excludes multipurpose credit facilities that primarily finance the purchase of equipment or other non-ADC activities. Second, the new definition permits the full appraised value of borrower-contributed land (less the total amount of any liens on the real property securing the HVCRE exposure) to count toward the 15 percent capital contribution of the real property&#8217;s appraised &#8220;as completed&#8221; value, which is one of the criteria for an exemption from the heightened risk weight. The final rule includes a grandfathering provision, which will provide banking organizations with the option to maintain their current capital treatment for ADC loans originated on or after January 1, 2015, and before April 1, 2020. Banking organizations also will have the option to reevaluate any or all of their ADC loans originated on or after January 1, 2015, using the revised HVCRE exposure definition. 

Dividend Limitations 

The FDIC has authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a savings bank or commercial bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Federal law prohibits the payment of dividends that will result in the institution failing to meet applicable capital requirements on a pro forma basis. The Bank is also subject to dividend declaration restrictions imposed by, and as later discussed under, &#8220;New York State Law.&#8221; 

Investment Activities 

Since the enactment of the FDICIA, all state-chartered financial institutions, including savings banks, commercial banks, and their subsidiaries, have generally been limited to such activities as principal and equity investments of the type, and in the amount, authorized for national banks. The GLBA and FDIC regulations impose certain quantitative and qualitative restrictions on such activities and on a bank&#8217;s dealings with a subsidiary that engages in specified activities. 

&#160; 

In 1993, the Bank received grandfathering authority from the FDIC, which it continues to use, to invest in listed stocks and/or registered shares subject to the maximum permissible investments of 100% of tier 1 capital, as specified by the FDIC&#8217;s regulations, or the maximum amount permitted by New York State Banking Law, whichever is less. Such grandfathering authority is subject to termination upon the FDIC&#8217;s determination that such investments pose a safety and soundness risk to the Bank, or in the event that the Bank converts its charter or undergoes a change in control. 

Enforcement 

The FDIC has extensive enforcement authority over insured banks, including the Bank. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist orders, and to remove directors and officers. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated in response to violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. 

Insurance of Deposit Accounts 

The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF. The maximum deposit insurance provided by the FDIC per account owner is $250,000 for all types of accounts. 

Under the FDIC&#8217;s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based upon supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital level, and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments based on the assigned risk levels. An institution&#8217;s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned and certain other factors. Assessment rates range from 1.5 to 40 basis points of the institution&#8217;s assessment base, which is calculated as average total assets minus average tangible equity. No institution may pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. Deposit insurance assessments are based on total average assets, excluding PPP loans, less average tangible common equity. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. Management cannot predict what insurance assessments rates will be in the future. 

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. Management does not know of any practice, condition, or violation that would lead to termination of the deposit insurance for the Bank. 

Holding Company Regulations 

Federal Regulation 

The Company is currently subject to examination, regulation, and periodic reporting under the BHCA, as administered by the FRB. 

The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. Prior FRB approval would be required for the Company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of any bank or bank holding company if, after giving effect to such acquisition, it would, directly or indirectly, own or control more than 5% of any class of voting shares of such bank or bank holding company. In addition, before any bank acquisition can be completed, prior approval thereof may also be required to be obtained from other agencies having supervisory jurisdiction over the bank to be acquired, including the NYSDFS. 

FRB regulations generally prohibit a bank holding company from engaging in, or acquiring, direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting securities of any company engaged in non-banking activities. One of the principal exceptions to this prohibition is for activities found by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Some of the principal activities that the FRB has determined by regulation to be so closely related to banking are: (i) making or servicing loans; (ii) performing certain data processing services; (iii) providing discount brokerage services; (iv) acting as fiduciary, investment, or financial advisor; (v) leasing personal or real property; (vi) making investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare; and (vii) acquiring a savings and loan association. 

&#160; 

The FRB has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the FRB&#8217;s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings, and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The FRB&#8217;s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary bank by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to the bank during periods of financial stress or adversity, and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary bank where necessary. 

Under FRB regulations, banks must adopt and maintain written policies that establish appropriate limits and standards for extension of credit secured by liens or interests in real estate or are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. These policies must establish loan portfolio diversification standards; prudent underwriting standards, including loan-to-value limits that are clear and measurable; loan administration procedures; and documentation, approval, and reporting requirements. A bank's real estate lending policy must reflect consideration of the Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies (the &#34;Interagency Guidelines&#34;) adopted by the federal bank regulators. The Interagency Guidelines, among other things, call for internal loan-to-value limits for real estate loans that are not in excess of the limits specified in the guidelines. The Interagency Guidelines state, however, that it may be appropriate in individual cases to originate or purchase loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value limits. 

Interchange fees, or &#34;swipe&#34; fees, are fees that merchants pay to credit card companies and debit card-issuing banks such as the Bank for processing electronic payment transactions on their behalf. The maximum permissible interchange fee that a non-exempt issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and five bps multiplied by the value of the transaction, subject to an upward adjustment of one cent if an issuer certifies that it has implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve the fraud-prevention standards set forth by the FRB. In addition, card issuers and networks are prohibited from entering into agreements requiring that debit card transactions be processed on a single network or only two affiliated networks, and allows merchants to determine transaction routing. 

The DFA codified the source of financial strength policy and required regulations to facilitate its application. Under the prompt corrective action laws, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. 

The status of the Company as a registered bank holding company under the BHCA does not exempt it from certain federal and state laws and regulations applicable to corporations generally, including, without limitation, certain provisions of the federal securities laws. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Under current federal law, transactions between depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB&#8217;s Regulation W promulgated thereunder. Generally, Section 23A limits the extent to which the institution or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of the institution&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and contains an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus. Section 23A also establishes specific collateral requirements for loans or extensions of credit to, or guarantees or acceptances on letters of credit issued on behalf of, an affiliate. Section 23B requires that covered transactions and a broad list of other specified transactions be on terms substantially the same as, or at least as favorable to, the institution or its subsidiaries as similar transactions with non-affiliates. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by the Company to its executive officers and directors. However, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contains a specific exemption for loans made by an institution to its executive officers and directors in compliance with other federal banking laws. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, and FRB Regulation O adopted thereunder, govern loans by a savings bank or commercial bank to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders. 

&#160; 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Federal Regulation 

Under the CRA, as implemented by FDIC regulations, an institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA generally does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. In its most recent FDIC CRA performance evaluation, the Bank received overall state ratings of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; for Ohio, Florida, Arizona, and New Jersey, as well as for the New York/New Jersey multi-state region. Furthermore, the most recent overall FDIC CRA ratings for the Bank was &#8220;Satisfactory.&#8221; 

New York State Regulation 

The Bank is also subject to provisions of the New York State Banking Law that impose continuing and affirmative obligations upon a banking institution organized in New York State to serve the credit needs of its local community. Such obligations are substantially similar to those imposed by the CRA. The latest New York State CRA rating received by the Bank was &#8220;Outstanding.&#8221; 

Bank Secrecy and Anti-Money Laundering 

Federal laws and regulations impose obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker/dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to prevent, detect, and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, these provisions require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution&#8217;s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank holding company acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. 

The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (&#34;Fin CEN&#34;), a bureau of the U.S. Treasury, has the authority to implement, administer, and enforce compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act and other BSA legislation. Fin CEN has adopted regulations that require financial institutions to, among other things, obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to legal entities with which such institutions conduct business, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions. 

The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (&#34;AMLA&#34;), which amends the BSA, was enacted in January 2021. The AMLA is intended to comprehensively reform and modernize U.S. bank secrecy and anti-money laundering laws. Among other things, it codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance; requires the U.S. Treasury to establish priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy; requires the development of standards for testing technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; expands enforcement and investigation-related authority, including increasing available sanctions for certain BSA violations; and expands BSA whistleblower incentives and protections. In June 2021, Fin CEN issued the priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy required under AMLA. These priorities include: corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transactional crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and proliferation financing. The Company regularly reviews and monitors its anti-money laundering compliance program to ensure it complies with the changes reflected in AMLA and the regulations that implement it. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, foreign nationals, and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules, based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with, or investment in, a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from, and exports to, a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, 

&#160; 

by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Data Privacy 

Federal and state law contains extensive consumer privacy protection provisions. The GLBA requires financial institutions to periodically disclose their privacy practices and policies relating to sharing such information and enable retail customers to opt out of the Company&#8217;s ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The GLBA also requires financial institutions to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. 

Cybersecurity 

The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (the &#8220;CISA&#8221;) is intended to improve cybersecurity in the U.S. through sharing of information about security threats between the U.S. government and private sector organizations, including financial institutions such as the Company. The CISA also authorizes companies to monitor their own systems, notwithstanding any other provision of law, and allows companies to carry out defensive measures on their own systems from potential cyber-attacks. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted to address, among other things, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. As directed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to certify that our quarterly and annual reports do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact. The rules adopted by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have several requirements, including having those Officers certify that they are responsible for establishing, maintaining and regularly evaluating the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting; that they have made certain disclosures to our auditors and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors about our internal control over financial reporting; and they have included information in our quarterly and annual reports about their evaluation and whether there have been changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that could materially affect internal control over financial reporting. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Bank is a member of the FHLB-NY. As a member of the FHLB-NY, the Bank is required to acquire and hold shares of FHLB-NY capital stock. At December 31, 2021 the Bank held $734 million of FHLB-NY stock. 

New York State Law 

The Bank derives its lending, investment, and other authority primarily from the applicable provisions of New York State Banking Law and the regulations of the NYSDFS, as limited by FDIC regulations. Under these laws and regulations, banks, including the Bank, may invest in real estate mortgages, consumer and commercial loans, certain types of debt securities (including certain corporate debt securities, and obligations of federal, state, and local governments and agencies), certain types of corporate equity securities, and certain other assets. 

Under New York State Banking Law, New York State-chartered stock-form savings banks may declare and pay dividends out of their net profits, unless there is an impairment of capital. Approval of the Superintendent is required if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less prior dividends paid. 

New York State Banking Law gives the Superintendent authority to issue an order to a New York State-chartered banking institution to appear and explain an apparent violation of law, to discontinue unauthorized or unsafe practices, and to keep prescribed books and accounts. Upon a finding by the NYSDFS that any director, trustee, or officer of any banking organization has violated any law, or has continued unauthorized or unsafe practices in conducting the business of the banking organization after having been notified by the Superintendent to discontinue such practices, such director, trustee, or officer may be removed from office after notice and an opportunity to be heard. The 

&#160; 

Superintendent also has authority to appoint a conservator or a receiver for a savings or commercial bank under certain circumstances. 

Interstate Branching 

Federal law allows the FDIC, and New York State Banking Law allows the Superintendent, to approve an application by a state banking institution to acquire interstate branches by merger, unless, in the case of the FDIC, the state of the target institution has opted out of interstate branching. New York State Banking Law authorizes savings banks and commercial banks to open and occupy de novo branches outside the state of New York. Pursuant to the DFA, the FDIC is authorized to approve a state bank&#8217;s establishment of a de novo interstate branch if the intended host state allows de novo branching by banks chartered by that state. The Bank currently maintains 40 branches in New Jersey, 26 branches in Florida, 28 branches in Ohio, and 14 branches in Arizona, in addition to its 129 branches in New York State. 

Acquisition of the Holding Company 

Federal Restrictions 

Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act (&#8220;CIBCA&#8221;), a notice must be submitted to the FRB if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire 10% or more of the Company&#8217;s shares of outstanding common stock, unless the FRB has found that the acquisition will not result in a change in control of the Company. Under the CIBCA, the FRB generally has 60 days within which to act on such notices, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer; the convenience and needs of the communities served by the Company, the Bank; and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Under the BHCA, any company would be required to obtain approval from the FRB before it may obtain &#8220;control&#8221; of the Company within the meaning of the BHCA. Control generally is defined to mean the ownership or power to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company, the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of the Company&#8217;s directors, or the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the Company. Under the BHCA, an existing bank holding company would be required to obtain the FRB&#8217;s approval before acquiring more than 5% of the Company&#8217;s voting stock. See &#8220;Holding Company Regulation&#8221; earlier in this report. 

New York State Change in Control Restrictions 

New York State Banking Law generally requires prior approval of the New York State Banking Board before any action is taken that causes any company to acquire direct or indirect control of a banking institution which is organized in New York. 

Federal Securities Law 

The Company&#8217;s common stock and certain other securities listed on the cover page of this report are registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). The Company is subject to the information and proxy solicitation requirements, insider trading restrictions, and other requirements under the Exchange Act. 

Consumer Protection Regulations 

The activities of the Company&#8217;s banking subsidiary, including its lending and deposit gathering activities, is subject to a variety of consumer laws and regulations designed to protect consumers. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements, and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account activity when taking deposits from, making loans to, or engaging in other types of transactions with, such clients. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions, and reputational damage to the financial institution. 

Applicable consumer protection laws include, but may not be limited to, the DFA, Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Expedited Funds Availability (Regulation CC), Reserve Requirements (Regulation D), Insider Transactions (Regulation O), Privacy of Consumer 

&#160; 

Information (Regulation P), Margin Stock Loans (Regulation U), Right To Financial Privacy Act, Flood Disaster Protection Act, Homeowners Protection Act, Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Children&#8217;s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Military Lending Act, and the Homeownership Counseling Act. 

In addition, the Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to certain state laws and regulations designed to protect consumers. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Bank is subject to oversight by the CFPB within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB was established under the DFA to implement and enforce rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks, including, among other things, the authority to prohibit acts and practices that are deemed to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. Abusive acts or practices are defined as those that (1) materially interfere with a consumer&#8217;s ability to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service, or (2) take unreasonable advantage of a consumer&#8217;s (a) lack of understanding on the part of the consumer of the material risks, costs, or conditions of the product or service; (b) the inability of the consumer to protect his/her own interest in selecting or using a financial product or service; or (c) the reasonable reliance by the consumer on a financial institution to act in the interests of the consumer. 

The CFPB has the authority to investigate possible violations of federal consumer financial law, hold hearings, and commence civil litigation. The CFPB can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB also may institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial law in order to impose a civil penalty or an injunction. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, as well as certain of their affiliates. 

President Biden's Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy 

On July 9, 2021, President Biden signed an Executive Order to promote competition across various industries. The Order encourages the leading antitrust agencies to focus enforcement efforts on problems in key markets and coordinates other agencies' ongoing response to corporate consolidation. Among other things, the Order: (a) calls on leading antitrust agencies, the Department of Justice (the &#34;DOJ&#34;) and the Federal Trade Commission (the &#34;FTC&#34;) to enforce antitrust laws vigorously and recognize that the law allows them to challenge prior bad mergers that past Administrations did not previously challenge; (b) announces a policy that enforcement should focus in particular on labor markets, agricultural markets, healthcare markets, and the tech sector; and (c) establishes a White House Competition Council, led by the Director of the National Economic Council, to monitor progress on finalizing the initiatives in the Order and to coordinate the federal government's response to the rising power of large corporations in the economy. The Executive Order also urges the DOJ and the FTC to revisit their guidance on mergers and toughen scrutiny of future transactions. The Order also called for the review and revitalization of merger oversight under the Bank Merger Act and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 

Enterprise Risk Management 

The Company&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s Boards of Directors are actively engaged in the process of overseeing the efforts made by the Enterprise Risk Management (&#8220;ERM&#8221;) department to identify, measure, monitor, mitigate, and report risk. The Company has established an ERM program that reinforces a strong risk culture to support sound risk management practices. The Board is responsible for the approval and oversight of the ERM program and framework. 

ERM is responsible for setting and aligning the Company&#8217;s Risk Appetite Policy with the goals and objectives set forth in the budget, and the strategic and capital plans. Internal controls and ongoing monitoring processes capture and address heightened risks that threaten the Company&#8217;s ability to achieve our goals and objectives, including the recognition of safety and soundness concerns and consumer protection. Additionally, ERM monitors key risk indicators against the established risk warning levels and limits, as well as elevated risks identified by the Chief Risk Officer. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Current Operating Environment 

COVID-19 Pandemic 

The Company's business, financial condition, and results of operation have been and may continue to be affected by the outbreak of COVID-19. Both globally and within the United States, the pandemic continues to have various effects on economic and commercial activity and financial markets, both nationally and locally. Due to its high rate of contagion and mortality, state and local governments enacted numerous safeguards to contain the spread of the virus. These included, the shut-down of all businesses considered to be &#8220;non-essential,&#8221; restrictions on gatherings, social distancing requirements were put in place. Businesses continue to observe and modify their activities and behaviors to remain in compliance with the jurisdictional directives while concurrently providing consumers with goods and services. Certain actions taken by U.S. or other governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve, that are intended to ameliorate the macroeconomic effects of COVID-19 may adversely impact our business. 

The concentration and severity of COVID-19 infection in the New York City metro region, during the early stages of the pandemic, led it to be considered the epicenter of the pandemic in the country. This region is also the Company&#8217;s largest service area, having over 100 branches and 72% of the loan portfolio. 

The Company has been very proactive throughout all stages of the pandemic, supporting employees, customers, and its communities. As an essential business, the Company implemented business continuity plans and continued to provide our financial services to customers, while taking health and safety measures into account. 

In response to the pandemic and to ensure that the Company&#8217;s operations, during the term of the pandemic runs smoothly, senior management formed two committees: the COVID-19 Resiliency Committee and the COVID-19 Lending Committee. The COVID-19 Resiliency Committee meets as needed and is primarily focused on operational issues including employee safety and well-being, branch closings, PPE procurement, IT sustainability, and continuous monitoring of the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Lending Committee meets weekly and focuses on our credit quality trends and our deferral program. Management continually monitors developments, evaluates strategic and tactical initiatives and solutions and allocates the necessary resources to mitigate the negative impact of this significant market disruption caused by the pandemic. For a description of the potential impacts of COVID-19 on the Company, see &#34;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#34;. 

Recent Events 

Declaration of Dividend on Common Shares 

On January 25, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on the Company&#8217;s common stock of $0.17 per share. The dividend is payable on February 17, 2022 to common stockholders of record as of February 7, 2022. 

Pending Acquisition of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. 

On April 26, 2021, the Company announced it had entered into a definitive merger agreement (the &#34;Merger Agreement&#34;) under which we would acquire Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. (&#34;Flagstar&#34;) in a 100% stock transaction valued at the time, at $2.6 billion. Under terms of the Merger Agreement, which was unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, Flagstar shareholders will receive 4.0151 shares of New York Community Bancorp, Inc. common stock for each Flagstar share they own. Following completion of the merger, New York Community shareholders are expected to own 68% of the combined company, while Flagstar shareholders are expected to own 32% of the combined company. The new company will have $85 billion in total assets, operate nearly 400 traditional branches in nine states, 83 retail home lending offices across a 28-state footprint. It will be headquartered on Long Island, N.Y. with regional headquarters in Troy, Michigan, including Flagstar's mortgage operations. 

Both sets of shareholders approved the merger on August 4, 2021. The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain other customary closing conditions, including approvals from the NYSDFS, the FDIC, and the FRB. 

&#160; 

Community Pledge Agreement with the National Community Reinvestment Coalition 

On January 24, 2022, the Company and the National Community Reinvestment Coalition (&#34;NCRC&#34;) announced the Company's commitment to provide $28 billion in loans, investments, and other financial support to communities and people of color, low- and moderate-income (&#34;LMI&#34;) families and communities, and small businesses. The Company's Community Pledge Agreement was developed with NCRC and its members in conjunction with the Company's pending merger with Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. The agreement includes $22 billion in community lending and affordable housing commitments and $6 billion of residential mortgage originations to underserved and LMI borrowers, and in LMI and majority-minority neighborhoods over a five-year period. NYCB will also provide $542 million in loans to small businesses with less than $1 million in revenues and in LMI and majority-minority communities; $16.5 million in philanthropic support to nonprofit organizations that meet the needs of LMI and majority-minority communities and individuals; greater access to banking products and services; and the continuation of NYCB's responsible multi-family lending practices. The agreement is subject to the closing of the Flagstar merger. Absent the closing of the merger, the Company will continue to work with its community groups to provide financial and other support within its markets. 

USDF Stablecoin Program Initiative 

Part of the Company's strategic initiatives unveiled during the second half of 2021 is the development of a stablecoin infrastructure (the &#34;USDF Stablecoin Program&#34;). The report on stablecoins issued by the President's Working Group in November confirms our view that as an insured depository institution, the Company can play a vital role as digital currencies are brought within a regulated prudential framework. The Company, in conjunction with its strategic partner, Figure Technologies (&#34;Figure&#34;) has been over the past several months, developing and assessing the USDF Stablecoin Program's systems, controls, processes, and features. Consistent with the development of any new product or program, this included three separate tests of those systems, controls, processes, and features during the third and fourth quarters of 2021 and earlier during the first quarter of 2022. 

The Company has also engaged its regulators, including the NYSDFS and the FDIC, throughout this process and intends to request non-objection from the Superintendent of the NYSDFS to engage in USDF Stablecoin Program activities, and any additional non-objection required by the FDIC. Assuming that timely non-objection is received, the Company expects to launch the USDF Stablecoin Program in late first-quarter 2022. At which point, the Bank's customers would be able to conduct USDF transactions upon demand, including (i) minting USDF stablecoin; (ii) transmitting and receiving USDF stablecoin; (iii) redeeming USDF stablecoin; and (iv) conducting any and all activities necessary or incidental to the USDF Stablecoin Program. 

