                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BNY Mellon Unit Fined $1.5 Million --- SEC alleged bank's asset management arm made misleading ESG claims
          2                                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BNYMellonUnitFined$1.5Million---SECallegedbank'sassetmanagementarmmademisleadingESGclaims
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BNY Mellon Unit Fined $1.5 Million --- SEC alleged bank's asset management arm made misleading
          ESG claims                                                              
          By Dean Seal and Amrith Ramkumar                                        
          410 words                                                               
          24 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The Securities and Exchange Commission fined the investment management arm of Bank of New York
          Mellon Corp. $1.5 million for misleading claims it made about funds that use environmental and social criteria
          to pick stocks.                                                         
          The SEC said Monday that BNY Mellon Investment Adviser Inc. agreed to pay the fine after regulators found
          that some U.S. mutual funds it managed didn't go through a quality review of environmental, social or
          governance factors from July 2018 to September 2021.                    
          BNY Investment Adviserneither admitted nor denied the claims.           
          Wall Street's regulator is stepping up its scrutiny of claims by ESG funds as investors pour cash into the
          category.                                                               
          BNY said in a statement that none of the six funds in question were part of its specific sustainable fund
          offerings. The firm has updated its investor communication materials to be more precise and complete, it
          said.                                                                   
          Regulators are struggling to keep up with a boom in ESG investing that has recently increased assets
          managed by such funds to trillions of dollars.                          
                                                                                  
          There are few consistent standards for what constitutes an ESG stock or bond, leading some analysts to
          allege that large banks and asset managers are "greenwashing" -- using new investment products to boost
          their bottom line in the name of doing good for the world.              
          Many stock funds focused on sustainability favor shares of large technology companies such as Microsoft
          Corp. that score well on ESG ratings but already dominate the stock market, also leading some observers to
          question how much they are actually benefiting the environment.         
          The SEC and federal prosecutors are investigating Deutsche Bank AG's asset management arm after The
          Wall Street Journal reported last year that DWS Group overstated its sustainable-investing efforts.
          The SEC's enforcement division also created a Climate and ESG Task Force in March 2021.
                                                                                  
          The inherent conflicts of ESG investing garnered recent headlines after Tesla Inc. Chief Executive Elon Musk
          called it an "outrageous scam" following a decision by S&P Dow Jones Indices to remove the electric-vehicle
          maker from its ESG index, citing its emissions strategy, working conditions and handling of a regulatory
          investigation.                                                          
          Meanwhile, HSBC Holdings PLC recently suspended a senior executive who publicly argued that investors
          didn't need to worry about climate change and that policy makers were exaggerating the risks.
          Document J000000020220524ei5o0001w                                      
                                                                                  
          