                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Digest ................................................................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheDigest                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          The Digest                                                              
          By Emily Flitter, Kellen Browning and The Associated Press              
          490 words                                                               
          5 May 2022                                                              
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          REGULATION                                                              
          Bank of America Settles Garnishment Case                                
          Bank of America is paying $10 million to settle a regulator's claim that it illegally helped some creditors strip
          funds out of its customers' accounts, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said Wednesday.
                                                                                  
          The bureau, which brought the case against the bank, said Bank of America had forced the customers to
          agree to contracts that limited their ability to fight the creditors' actions. In 3,700 cases, the bureau said, Bank
          of America also made customers pay a total of just under $600,000 in ''garnishment fees'' for processing their
          creditors' fund-extraction requests.                                    
          ''Bank of America imposed unlawful garnishment fees and injured its customers by inserting unenforceable
          clauses into contracts in an attempt to strip legal rights from families,'' said Rohit Chopra, the bureau's
          director.                                                               
          A Bank of America spokesman said the bank was refunding the customers in the 3,700 cases. EMILY
          FLITTER                                                                 
          LEGAL                                                                   
                                                                                  
          New York Pension Funds                                                  
          Sue Activision Over Sale                                                
                                                                                  
          Five New York City employee pension groups that own stock in Activision Blizzard, the embattled video game
          maker, are suing Activision, saying that the company failed to turn over financial records as the groups try to
          investigate whether Activision secured a fair price in its planned sale to Microsoft.
          The lawsuit, filed in Delaware state court, says that the New York groups are asking whether Activision did a
          disservice to its shareholders by agreeing to sell the company to Microsoft for about $70 billion, or about $95
          per share, which the pension groups say is undervalued. But they cannot dig into the corporate records that
          they want to review, the lawsuit says, because Activision has refused to turn them all over.
          The groups ''seek access to certain books and records to investigate the independence and
          disinterestedness of the board,'' the lawsuit says, referring to Activision's board of directors.
          The complaint was reported earlier on Wednesday by Axios.               
                                                                                  
          KELLEN BROWNING                                                         
          CURRENCIES                                                              
                                                                                  
          California Is Set                                                       
          To Embrace Crypto                                                       
                                                                                  
          California on Wednesday began to formally examine how to broadly adapt to cryptocurrency and related
          innovations, following a path laid out by President Biden in March.     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Gov. Gavin Newsom signed an executive order for state agencies to move in tandem with the federal
          government to craft regulations for digital currencies. It also calls for officials to explore incorporating broader
          blockchain computer coding into the government operations of the state where much of the world's
          technological innovation is born.                                       
          Mr. Newsom's order says the state should be out front in figuring out how to adapt to new technologies.
          While California may be first to try to develop a comprehensive approach, Ohio was the first to attempt to
          accept virtual currency for government services in 2018, though the program was soon discontinued because
          few people used it. ASSOCIATED PRESS                                    
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NELSON/EPA, VIA SHUTTERSTOCK)                    
                                                                                  
          Document NYTF000020220505ei5500055                                      
          