                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity : Cyber Funding Faces a Pullback --- Cooling activity, downturn mean a power shift in venture
          capital is under way.................................................................................................................................................. 2
          Federal Inquiry Focuses on Wells Fargo's Hiring Practices ..................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
          Senator Warns Wells Fargo To Shape Up ............................................................................................................... 6
          Rising Rates Hit Mortgage Lenders ......................................................................................................................... 7
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Wells Settles Laundering Case by SEC ....................................................................................... 10
          Zelle Emerges As Rival To Cards .......................................................................................................................... 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity:CyberFundingFacesaPullback---Coolingactivity,downturnmeanapowershiftinventurecapitalisunderway
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Cybersecurity: Cyber Funding Faces a Pullback --- Cooling activity, downturn mean a power shift in
          venture capital is under way                                            
          By James Rundle and Vipal Monga                                         
          898 words                                                               
          23 June 2022                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B5                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Venture-capital money has poured into cybersecurity companies in recent years, driven by an increase in
          hacking and elevated valuations for startups. Now fears of a recession and disruption in the wider
          technology market are beginning to curb cybersecurity investments.      
          Investors say the industry has seen a contraction in late-stage funding, where companies enjoyed years of
          rounds in the hundreds of millions of dollars and multibillion-dollar valuations at high multiples of their
          revenue. The speed of the change surprised even some veteran investors. 
          Rama Sekhar, partner at Palo Alto, Calif., firm Norwest Venture Partners, said in 2021 venture-capital funding
          was plentiful and investors were focused on growth. "It's been dramatically different over the last two months
          just based on the markets -- the private and startup markets always lag the public markets in terms of
          reaction to downturns, but this one was very quick and very swift," he said.
          Companies and governments depend on the cybersecurity sector to constantly keep pace with the
          sophistication of hackers. A weakened cybersecurity industry could open the door to attacks.
          "At the end of the day, just because the markets are down, the bad actors aren't going away. If nothing else
          it's accelerating what they're doing," said Mark Hatfield, founder and general partner at cyber-focused
          venture-capital firm Ten Eleven Ventures.                               
          The slowdown is part of a downturn in public markets, where the technology industry has been particularly
          hard hit following years of growth that were fueled in part by consistently low interest rates and stay-at-home
          orders during the pandemic.                                             
          Fundraising has started to slow down. Cybersecurity companies raised $2.4 billion globally during the
          second quarter of this year, as of June 14, according to research firm PitchBook Data Inc. The pace is short
          of the $5.1 billion raised during the first quarter, Companies raised $6.4 billion in the second quarter of 2021.
          Investment banking firm DBO Partners LLC estimates that cyber companies will raise around $21 billion in
          total funding this year, compared with $26 billion in 2021. That number is still a significant increase from
          around $11 billion raised in 2020.                                      
          Many investors attribute the crunch to the absence of hedge funds, late-stage funds, and crossover funds that
          invest in both public and private companies, which have pulled back from the cyber market after a period of
          intense activity. Funding deals that used to take two to three days to close are now taking weeks, Mr. Sekhar
          said.                                                                   
          "The big takeaway is that the growth players, the ones that were very light on diligence, which hit the
          companies with high valuations and then weren't being very active on boards, have pulled back pretty
          dramatically," said Ten Eleven's Mr. Hatfield.                          
          Early-stage investment activity, such as seed funding through to Series A rounds, remains strong, Mr.
          Hatfield said. But others say the market downturn and the hardening of the late-stage venture capital
          environment have had a sobering effect on the cybersecurity industry.   
                                                                                  
          "Entrepreneurs came in and said: 'I have $1 million of annual recurring revenue. I'm worth $1 billion.' And
          they were getting it," said Dave DeWalt, founder and managing director at San Francisco-based cyber
          venture-capital firm NightDragon LLC. "But now, the power reverses where suddenly we have the capital and
          we say: 'Oh, you're $1 million dollars of ARR [annual recurring revenue]? You have a $40 million dollar
          market value, or $50 million.'"                                         
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investors say this shift in funding likely means fewer exits through initial public offerings, which boomed in
          recent years for cyber companies. Instead, they say, a period of consolidation and targeted mergers and
          acquisitions activity between cyber companies will likely supplant public listings.
          Alex Doll, founder and managing general partner at Ten Eleven, said a reduction in the number of IPOs is
          likely to force more rational valuations, which could then encourage more acquisitive behavior by cyber firms.
          "Candidly, the last couple of years, it really hasn't been IPO valuations. It's been private money valuations
          that have kept a little bit of a lid on the M&A market," he said.       
          Despite the recent slowdown, funds continue to have faith that cybersecurity investments will pay off.
          Washington, D.C.-based Paladin Capital Group earlier this month closed fundraising on a $372 million fund
          focused on investments in cybersecurity.                                
          Michael Steed, who founded the firm after the September 2001 terrorist attacks, called the industry
          "recession-proof," especially now that the threat of attacks on U.S. companies and infrastructure has
          increased in the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.               
          "The government standing alone can't protect the infrastructure of America," said Mr. Steed. "It needs to have
          the private sector at the table."                                       
                                                                                  
          Because the industry's growth is in large part based on the current threat environment, many expect the
          growth to continue and have an appetite for investment, even through a recession and with a pullback in the
          late venture stages.                                                    
          "A lot of those folks, as I mentioned, are running for the hills right now. But I think the unfortunate fact is that,
          during recessions, during conflicts, cybercrime historically has risen," Norwest's Mr. Sekhar said.
          Document J000000020220623ei6n00010                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FederalInquiryFocusesonWellsFargo'sHiringPractices                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Federal Inquiry Focuses on Wells Fargo's Hiring Practices               
          By Emily Flitter                                                        
          1,182 words                                                             
          10 June 2022                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Authorities are investigating whether the bank violated federal anti-discrimination laws by conducting sham
          interviews of minority candidates.                                      
          Federal prosecutors in New York have opened a criminal investigation into whether Wells Fargo violated
          federal laws by conducting sham interviews of minority and female job candidates, according to two people
          with knowledge of the inquiry.                                          
          The investigation is being conducted by members of a newly created civil rights unit inside the criminal
          division of the Manhattan U.S. attorney's office, the people said. They requested anonymity because they
          were not authorized to speak publicly.                                  
          The investigation, which is in its early stages, was spurred by a May 19 report in The New York Times that
          centered on a whistle-blower, Joe Bruno. Mr. Bruno, a former Wells Fargo employee, and others said bank
          managers were interviewing job applicants whom the bank deemed ''diverse'' -- a catchall term for racial
          minorities, women and members of other disadvantaged groups -- for roles that had already been promised
          to other people.                                                        
          These sham interviews were the result of the bank's quest to increase diversity -- a noble goal that became
          twisted in practice because, some employees said, it was more about recording the bank's efforts to hire
          more minorities than actually hiring them.                              
          The practice was tied to Wells Fargo's ''diverse slate'' policy, which stipulated that at least half the candidates
          interviewed for jobs paying $100,000 or more needed to be ''diverse.'' The rule was put in place in mid-2020.
          However, the practice of conducting fake interviews existed long before then, because Wells Fargo had a
          similar unwritten policy.                                               
          A Wells Fargo spokeswoman declined to comment on the investigation.     
                                                                                  
          It is not clear what, if any, charges could result from the investigation. But it shows a new willingness by
          federal authorities to pursue criminal prosecutions of civil rights violations at a time when hate crimes are on
          the rise -- especially because the criminal code is seldom applied to the treatment of workers or customers by
          corporations.                                                           
          The civil rights unit handling the Wells Fargo inquiry was created in November by Damian Williams, the U.S.
          attorney for the Southern District of New York.                         
          Under federal law, for instance, it is a crime to interfere with ''an applicant for private employment'' in a way
          motivated by the applicant's ''race, color, religion or national origin.''
          Federal authorities typically cite civil anti-discrimination laws when bringing cases against companies for
          hiring discrimination. Also, customers who find themselves mistreated because of their race rely mostly on
          state anti-discrimination laws to get justice.                          
          In creating the civil rights unit, Mr. Williams said federal authorities needed to reconsider how the justice
          system treated issues of discrimination. Pursuing criminal cases, he said, would make efforts to get justice for
          victims of discrimination ''more effective.''                           
                                                                                  
          At Wells Fargo, one of the nation's largest banks, with nearly 250,000 employees, sham interviews occurred
          across multiple business lines, including its mortgage servicing, home lending and retail banking operations.
          The Times report last month focused on the bank's wealth management business.
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Since then, another 10 current and former employees have shared stories about how they were subject to
          fake interviews, or conducted them, or saw paperwork documenting the practice. The people spoke on the
          condition of anonymity because they feared retaliation from Wells Fargo or their current employers.
          In an interview on Monday, Bei Ling, Wells Fargo's head of human resources, said she did not believe the
          fake interview practice was ''a systematic issue.'' Employees had not complained about it, she said.
          ''During these past eight months I can tell you I have never heard such a thing from the recruiting
          community,'' Ms. Ling said. ''I have never even heard the words 'fake interview.'''
                                                                                  
          She added that there was no way for the bank to understand the scope of the problem unless employees
          spoke up. ''We can't act on things that we don't know,'' she said.      
          In some instances, there were written records of the practice of conducting fake interviews. In late 2020, just
          days after Wells Fargo offered a job to a person who counted as ''diverse'' by the bank's standards, a human
          resources employee asked that person to apply for a different job at the bank, according to an email reviewed
          by The Times.                                                           
          The first offer was still on the table, the Wells Fargo employee explained, but the bank also wanted to show
          that it had ''qualified candidates'' for both roles. ''Simply book keeping for us,'' the employee wrote in the
          email.                                                                  
          When asked about the human resources employee's message, Ms. Ling said: ''We're reviewing the
          communications.''                                                       
                                                                                  
          On Monday, Wells Fargo's chief executive officer, Charles W. Scharf, announced that the bank would
          temporarily pause its ''diverse slate'' rule to study its implementation and make changes to prevent more fake
          interviews from being conducted.                                        
          The bank had already been experimenting with ways to streamline its hiring process. In February, Wells
          Fargo began a pilot program that did away with job postings and the ''diverse slate'' interview requirement in
          cases where internal candidates had been identified. The goal was to make it easier for employees to move
          to new roles within the bank. Until then, every job had to be posted and ''diverse'' candidates interviewed in
          keeping with the policy, unless managers specifically applied for an exemption requiring approval from
          high-level executives.                                                  
          Ms. Ling said the pilot program had nothing to do with problems arising from the ''diverse slate'' rule.
          Wells Fargo has been working its way through an organization-wide cleanup of its business practices for the
          past five years. Beginning in 2016, it was publicly revealed that the bank had been opening fake accounts in
          customers' names without their knowledge, charging some of them bogus fees on mortgage loans and forcing
          others to buy unnecessary auto insurance. The scandals have cost the bank more than $4.5 billion in fines.
          In early 2018, the Federal Reserve imposed an asset cap on Wells Fargo, restricting it from growing until
          regulators were satisfied that its risk management practices and its treatment of customers had stabilized.
          The bank's leadership has turned over since then, and Mr. Scharf took over in the fall of 2019. Regulators
          have still not given Wells Fargo the all-clear.                         
          Its woes have continued.                                                
          A group of Black homeowners recently sued the bank for stalling on refinancing their home loans. The
          Securities and Exchange Commission fined Wells Fargo $7 million for failing to properly follow
          anti-money-laundering laws. And Rohit Chopra, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
          put Wells Fargo atop a list of ''repeat offenders'' that he proposed should be stripped of their operating
          licenses because they were violating too many financial regulations.    
          Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.                                
                                                                                  
          Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.                                
          Wells Fargo's head of human resources said she did not believe the fake interview practice was ''a systematic
          issue.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)                  
          Document NYTF000020220610ei6a0005b                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SenatorWarnsWellsFargoToShapeUp                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Senator Warns Wells Fargo To Shape Up                                   
          By Emily Flitter                                                        
          373 words                                                               
          1 June 2022                                                             
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          7                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, the chairman of the chamber's Banking Committee, rebuked Charles W.
          Scharf for the bank's continued problems.                               
          The Democrat in charge of the Senate Banking Committee is not happy with Wells Fargo's chief executive,
          Charles W. Scharf.                                                      
          In a letter on Tuesday, the committee's chairman, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, demanded that Mr. Scharf
          ''once and for all address Wells Fargo's governance, risk management and hiring practices -- weaknesses
          that have plagued the bank for almost a decade.''                       
          Mr. Brown listed recent misbehavior by the bank, including a report by The New York Times that Wells Fargo
          had conducted sham interviews of Black and female candidates, and cited claims that it had avoided
          refinancing Black homeowners' mortgages while interest rates were low.  
          A Wells Fargo spokeswoman declined to comment.                          
                                                                                  
          Mr. Brown also noted that Wells Fargo had failed to properly administer a system for alerting the authorities to
          suspicious activity by its brokerage customers. The Securities and Exchange Commission said on May 20
          that it was fining Wells Fargo $7 million over violations of anti-money-laundering laws, claiming the bank
          failed to file more than 30 suspicious-activity reports between 2017 and 2021.
          ''Despite these failures, Wells Fargo made $21.5 billion in 2021 and announced a plan to double dividends
          and buy back $18 billion in stock between third quarter 2021 and second quarter 2022,'' Mr. Brown wrote.
          Mr. Brown noted that Mr. Scharf received $24.5 million last year in total compensation, a 20 percent increase
          from 2020 and 290 times the median employee salary at the bank.         
                                                                                  
          Mr. Brown said he expected Mr. Scharf to prepare a plan to fix its myriad problems and ended the letter with
          a reminder that the chief executive would be testifying soon along with his peers at the committee's annual
          big bank oversight hearing.                                             
          A date for the hearing has not yet been announced.                      
          Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio is criticizing Wells Fargo on a number of fronts, including its hiring practices
          and monitoring of suspicious activity by brokerage customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Pool photo by Tom
          Williams FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)                                        
          Document NYTF000020220601ei6100054                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          RisingRatesHitMortgageLenders                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Rising Rates Hit Mortgage Lenders                                       
          By Orla McCaffrey                                                       
          1,045 words                                                             
          26 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Mortgage lenders are scrambling to survive a sharp drop-off in the number of homeowners refinancing their
          loans, with demand drying up as interest rates rise.                    
          Mortgage giants including Wells Fargo & Co. and Rocket Cos. have trimmed staff this spring. Online lender
          Better.com has laid off or offered buyouts to about half of its workforce since December.
          While home prices continue to rise and people are still buying houses, the drop-off in refinancing activity is a
          giant blow because refinancings made up the bulk of U.S. mortgage originations throughout the pandemic.
          Some lenders are considering selling themselves, convinced it is the only way to make it through, according
          to industry executives and advisers.                                    
                                                                                  
          "Many lenders are losing money and have the prospect of losing money for the foreseeable future," said
          Steve Stein, a former executive at Stearns Lending, a mortgage company based in Lewisville, Texas.
          "Partnering up could be a good strategic alternative."                  
          Last month, Mr. Stein and former Stearns Chief Executive David Schneider launched an advisory firm to
          guide what they believe will be a wave of lenders looking to stay afloat.
          Some lenders are selling assets, such as their rights to collect mortgage payments. Others are trying to drum
          up business by offering lower rates or cutting their fees. In March, mortgage lenders made $2.36 in profit on
          every $100 of a loan, the smallest amount since 2019, according to the Urban Institute. In 2020, that figure
          was as high as $5.99.                                                   
          "You saw lenders panic a bit with the decline" in originations, said Richard Martin, director of real-estate
          lending solutions at Curinos, a financial-services research firm.       
          The mortgage market's slowdown is another consequence of the Federal Reserve's attempts to curb red-hot
          inflation. The Fed has raised interest rates twice this year to try to cool the economy, and it ended its largest
          mortgage-bond buying program this spring. That has pushed up borrowing costs for mortgages, drying up the
          pandemic refinancing boom and even shoving some would-be home buyers out of the market.
          Originations at the 50 largest lenders fell 41% in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
          industry-research firm Inside Mortgage Finance. Mortgage volume is expected to fall 37% in 2022, according
          to the Mortgage Bankers Association, driven by the drop in refinancings.
                                                                                  
          It could get worse: The housing market still looks hot by historical standards, and home prices are still rising.
          But the Fed's moves have raised questions about whether the U.S. is headed toward a recession, which
          would likely slow home sales and make it difficult for some homeowners to keep up with their monthly
          payments. April's seasonally adjusted annual rate of home sales was the lowest since June 2020.
          "It's like the music has stopped," said Jeff Taylor, a managing partner at Mphasis Digital Risk, a consulting
          firm that works with mortgage lenders on technology and risk.           
          The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 5.25% as of last week, according to
          mortgage-finance giant Freddie Mac, up from 3.11% near the beginning of the year, an increase that can add
          hundreds of dollars each month to a new buyer's borrowing costs.        
          The pain is expected to be especially bad for nonbank mortgage lenders. Unlike banks, they don't have
          numerous business lines to carry them through mortgage downturns. They also don't take deposits, which
          means they are reliant on short-term loans. Seven of the 10 largest refinance lenders in 2021 were nonbanks,
          according to Inside Mortgage Finance.                                   
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A few nonbanks are big names, such as Rocket, which is now the biggest mortgage lender in the U.S., but
          there are thousands of smaller lenders scattered throughout the country. They are often the preferred route to
          homeownership for moderate-income families or first-time home buyers. Nonbanks issued about 70% of U.S.
          mortgages last year, the highest share on record, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.
          It is common for lenders to lay off workers when interest rates rise, like they did in 2018, and then hire again
          when rates fall. However, in the run-up to 2008, mortgage companies instead lowered lending standards to
          keep volume high, laying the seeds for the global financial crisis. This time around, lenders have kept their
          standards for mortgage loans relatively strict.                         
          "It's been decades since rates rose so quickly, so it's kind of a shock," said Tom Millon, CEO of
          Computershare Loan Services, a mortgage-service provider.               
          Some of the measures lenders are taking to stem the bleeding are short-term solutions. Cash from the sale of
          servicing rights -- by which a company earns fees for performing the back-office job of collecting monthly
          payments -- can help pad lenders' bottom line. But selling those rights also means giving up a steady stream
          of income.                                                              
          Amerifirst Home Mortgage, based in Kalamazoo, Mich., has sold close to $1 billion in servicing rights since
          the beginning of the year, CEO Mark Jones said, after selling none in 2021.
          "We're going to tweak here and there and cut expenses and just kind of mark our time until enough players
          exit the market or the market comes back up," Mr. Jones said.           
                                                                                  
          Shares of loanDepot Inc. are down 43% this year, and shares of Rocket, UWM Holdings Corp. and Guild
          Holdings Co. have lost between 29% and 38%, all worse than the S&P 500's drop of 17%. At least eight big
          mortgage lenders have gone public during the pandemic, and all of their current share prices have fallen
          below their IPO price.                                                  
          Rocket said it offered buyouts to several thousand employees this spring. The company has been working to
          get more of its business from purchase mortgages, which are typically less dependent on interest rates.
          Refinances accounted for an estimated 82% of Rocket's originations in 2021, according to Inside Mortgage
          Finance.                                                                
          Banks aren't immune to the stress. Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase & Co. laid off mortgage employees this
          year, the banks said. Wells Fargo said in a statement that the layoffs were "the result of cyclical changes in
          the broader home lending environment."                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220526ei5q0001l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---WellsSettlesLaunderingCasebySEC                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Wells Settles Laundering Case by SEC                       
          By Richard Vanderford                                                   
          450 words                                                               
          21 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A Wells Fargo & Co. unit has agreed to pay $7 million in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission after alleged glitches in a new anti-money-laundering system let suspicious transactions
          escape initial notice.                                                  
          Wells Fargo Advisors, a brokerage arm of the bank, failed to properly implement and then test a new version
          of a system designed to catch incidents of money laundering, leading to failures to file suspicious-activity
          reports in a timely way, the SEC said Friday. The unit failed to file at least 34 reports between April 2017 and
          October 2021, the SEC said.                                             
          Wells Fargo didn't formally admit to or deny the SEC's allegations, the agency said.
          "When SEC registrants like Wells Fargo Advisors fail to comply with their [anti-money-laundering]
          obligations, they put the investing public at risk because they deprive regulators of timely information about
          possible money laundering, terrorist financing or other illegal money movements," SEC Enforcement Director
          Gurbir Grewal said.                                                     
          Mr. Grewal said the agency wanted to send a message that anti-money-laundering obligations are
          "sacrosanct."                                                           
          Wells Fargo said that the matter "refers to legacy issues that impacted a transaction monitoring system,"
          adding, "The issues were resolved promptly upon discovery."             
                                                                                  
          Banks, brokers and many other money-handling businesses are required to file SARs to inform government
          agencies about potentially suspicious transactions. Most of Wells Fargo's alleged shortfalls stemmed from
          failure to make sure that an anti-money-laundering system installed in 2019 actually worked as intended,
          the SEC said.                                                           
          Some problems occurred because the system didn't properly cross-reference country codes used on a
          money-laundering watch list with the country codes used to process wire transfers, the SEC said.
          Transactions involving countries that pose a heightened risk of money laundering then slipped through the
          system without triggering alerts, the SEC said.                         
          That issue -- affecting at least 25 reports that weren't filed in a timely manner, according to the SEC -- was
          discovered when the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a Wall Street self-regulatory body, pointed out
          that Wells Fargo didn't seem to be receiving alerts on a number of transactions that its systems should have
          flagged.                                                                
          At least nine additional reports weren't properly filed because the Wells Fargoanti-money-laundering system
          malfunctioned on certain days, for example, when the investment adviser was open on a bank holiday, the
          SEC said.                                                               
          The same Wells Fargo unit previously settled with the SEC over similar alleged misconduct.
          The SEC, in connection with a 2017 settlement, said that Wells Fargoanti-money-laundering management
          had issued "confusing directives" to money-laundering investigators at the brokerage.
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220521ei5l0002y                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ZelleEmergesAsRivalToCards                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Zelle Emerges As Rival To Cards                                         
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and David Benoit                                 
          528 words                                                               
          7 April 2022                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Banks are debating a plan to bring Zelle to the checkout at big retailers.
          The money-transfer service boomed during the pandemic, when people avoided ATMs and replaced cash
          and checks with digital money transfers. Zelle recorded some 1.8 billion transactions in 2021 totaling $490
          billion, both more than double their prepandemic levels.                
          That growth has opened up new possibilities for Zelle and sparked a disagreement among the banks that
          own it -- a group that includes JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. At the
          center of the debate is whether it is in the banks' best interest to promote a payment option that competes
          with card networks Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc., according to people familiar with the matter.
          Banks collectively earn billions of dollars each year from fees merchants pay when shoppers use credit and
          debit cards. A payment option that moves funds directly between shoppers' and merchants' bank accounts
          could chip away at that. But Visa and Mastercard set the fees and take some for themselves, and
          sidestepping the card networks would allow banks to set rules and fees on their own. Zelle's newfound
          popularity has some bank executives asking if the service could be the way to do that.
          Wells Fargo and Bank of America are in favor of expanding the service to retail payments, according to
          people familiar with the matter, eyeing the popularity of such offerings in Asia. Bank of America customers
          made more Zelle transactions than wrote paper checks for the first time ever last year.
          Executives at JPMorgan, America's largest bank, aren't convinced it is the right time for a Zelle expansion
          and are urging first more focus on protecting consumers from fraud, the people said. U.S. Bancorp and
          Capital One Financial Corp. are undecided, they said.                   
          Banks in favor of the move could try it out on their own, but a vote from Zelle's owners is needed before the
          service can be activated across all of the banks that use it, some of the people said. Seven banks own Early
          Warning Services LLC, the company that operates Zelle, and around 1,450 financial institutions offer Zelle to
          their customers.                                                        
          Some banks are reaching out to merchants to gauge interest in a pilot that would allow them to accept Zelle
          for online payments as soon as this year, the people said. How it would work, what to charge the merchants
          for the service and what incentives to offer consumers are all being debated, the people said.
          Zelle has already added features that serve businesses and is "working with financial institutions to explore
          more opportunities," a spokeswoman for Early Warning Services said.     
                                                                                  
          There is no guarantee such a service would catch on in the U.S., where card payments reign supreme. Large
          merchants banded together several years ago to offer shoppers a pay-by-bank-account option, but the effort
          ultimately fizzled out.                                                 
          Past failures haven't stopped companies from trying. Discover Financial Services recently partnered with a
          financial-technology firm to enable bank-account payments over its network.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220407ei470001q                                      
                                                                                  
          