Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2023_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Want This 6% CD? You Need $5 Million.................................................................................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WantThis6%CD?YouNeed$5Million                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Want This 6% CD? You Need $5 Million                                    
          By Rachel Louise Ensign                                                 
          447 words                                                               
          29 September 2023                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase has got a deal for you -- if you have an extra $5 million lying around.
          The New York bank, the largest in the U.S., is offering customers of its private bank division a 6% rate on a
          six-month certificate of deposit if they put $5 million or more into the product.
          JPMorgan isn't exactly hurting for deposits. But like other banks, its overall deposits have declined since the
          Federal Reserve started raising interest rates in early 2022. Special rate offers are a bid to keep wealthy
          customers happy -- and maybe earn more of their business.               
          Mass-market customers shouldn't expect the same. JPMorgan is paying 5% to retail banking customers who
          put in $100,000 or more for the same period, according to its website. Customers who put in less than
          $100,000 can earn 4%.                                                   
          The bank's basic interest-bearing checking and savings accounts still pay just 0.01%.
                                                                                  
          Funds have to come from outside of JPMorgan to qualify for the 6% rate, the bank said. Other banks are
          advertising six-month CDs paying 5% or more.                            
          The 6% offer has some drawbacks. CDs don't have the same tax advantages that other products like
          Treasurys can provide. If the Fed starts cutting rates, it may be hard for customers to find a CD with the same
          yield once the product matures.                                         
          For years following the 2008-09 financial crisis, JPMorgan and other megabanks raked in deposits despite
          paying almost no interest on CDs and other products. Customers resigned themselves to earning nothing in
          exchange for access to big banks' technology and ubiquitous branch networks. After all, rates were pretty
          low everywhere.                                                         
          The deposit glut only intensified after the economic stimulus measures during the pandemic. JPMorgan
          added about $900 billion in deposits in 2020 and 2021.                  
                                                                                  
          The Fed's steep rate increases changed that picture. By the start of this year, wealthy customers in particular
          were moving their extra cash into Treasurys and money-market funds for higher rates.
          Over the past year, deposits in JPMorgan's asset- and wealth management unit have fallen 22%, far more
          than overall deposits. Wealth deposits are also down by double digits at competitors Bank of America and
          Wells Fargo.                                                            
          Banks are generally paying between 4% and 5% on new wealth-management deposits compared with
          around 2.5% to land regular customers' deposits, said Adam Stockton, a managing director at Curinos, a firm
          that tracks data including deposit rates. He said a 6% rate is very rare.
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's CD has a maximum deposit of $100 million. The offer ends Saturday.
          Document J000000020230929ej9t0006a                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A.I.RevolutionIsComing.JustWhenIsHardtoSay.                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          A.I. Revolution Is Coming. Just When Is Hard to Say.                    
          By Steve Lohr                                                           
          1,365 words                                                             
          4 September 2023                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          From steam power to the internet, there has always been a lag between technology invention and adoption
          across industries and the economy.                                      
          Lori Beer, the global chief information officer of JPMorgan Chase, talks about the latest artificial intelligence
          with the enthusiasm of a convert. She refers to A.I. chatbots like ChatGPT, with its ability to produce
          everything from poetry to computer programs, as ''transformative'' and a ''paradigm shift.''
          But it's not coming soon to the nation's largest bank. JPMorgan has blocked access to ChatGPT from its
          computers and told its 300,000 workers not to put any bank information into the chatbot or other generative
          A.I. tools.                                                             
          For now, Ms. Beer said, there are too many risks of leaking confidential data, questions about how the data is
          used and about the accuracy of the A.I.-generated answers. The bank has created a walled-off, private
          network to allow a few hundred data scientists and engineers to experiment with the technology. They are
          exploring uses like automating and improving tech support and software development.
          Across corporate America, the perspective is much the same. Generative A.I., the software engine behind
          ChatGPT, is seen as an exciting new wave of technology. But companies in every industry are mainly trying
          out the technology and thinking through the economics. Widespread use of it at many companies could be
          years away.                                                             
                                                                                  
          This year, JPMorgan trademarked IndexGPT as a possible name for a generative A.I.-driven investment
          advisory product.                                                       
          ''That's something we will look at and continue to assess over time,'' said Ms. Beer, the bank's tech leader.
          ''But it's not close to launching yet.''                                
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          OneEquityIsProbedOnInvestorContacts                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          One Equity Is Probed On Investor Contacts                               
          By Laura Cooper and Dave Michaels                                       
          343 words                                                               
          19 July 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether private-equity firm One Equity Partners'
          communications with investors about its past and future performance violated rules.
          One Equity, which was once JPMorgan Chase's buyout arm, has recently been in settlement talks with the
          SEC, people familiar with the matter said. Regulators have sought a fine of as much as $5 million, although
          One Equity hasn't agreed to that amount and the penalty could be lower, one of the people said.
          The SEC's multiyear investigation has looked at communications Dick Cashin, the firm's president, had with
          investors about fund performance and whether he conveyed confidential information other parties could have
          traded on. Regulators didn't find insider trading or misuse of the firm's information, the person said.
          Cashin didn't respond to requests for comment.                          
          "OEP has been fully cooperating with an SEC inquiry," the firm said. "We believe that the resolution of this
          matter will not materially impact ongoing operations or any of the funds. We continue to work diligently to
          ensure that best-in-class compliance policies and procedures are adhered to by all employees." An SEC
          spokesman declined to comment.                                          
          Document J000000020230719ej7j0001n                                      
                                                                                  
```