 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Truist is a banking organization headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Truist conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Truist Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 

Merger with SunTrust 

The Company completed its Merger with SunTrust on December 6, 2019. Refer to "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional details related to the Merger. 

Operating Subsidiaries 

Truist Bank, Truist's largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,781 offices as of December 31, 2020 and its digital platform. 

Services 

Truist's subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. 

##TABLE_START Table 1: Services &#160; Consumer Services: &#160; Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Bankcard lending Association services Consumer finance Capital markets services Home equity lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Home mortgage lending Commercial finance Insurance Commercial middle market lending Investment brokerage services Commercial mortgage lending Mobile/online banking Corporate banking Payment solutions Floor plan lending Private equity investments Governmental finance Retail deposit services Institutional trust services Small business lending Insurance Student lending Insurance premium finance Wealth management/private banking International banking services Investment banking services Leasing Merchant services Mortgage warehouse lending Treasury and payment solutions Private equity investments Real estate lending Supply chain financing ##TABLE_END

Truist Financial Corporation 5 

Market Area 

The following table reflects Truist's deposit market share and branch locations by state: 

##TABLE_START Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State &#160; % of Truist&#8217;s Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Florida 23 % 3rd 637 Georgia 16 1st 325 Virginia 15 2nd 406 North Carolina (1) 15 1st 371 Maryland 7 3rd 232 Tennessee 5 4th 145 Pennsylvania 5 8th 180 South Carolina 4 3rd 128 Texas 2 17th 103 West Virginia 2 1st 52 Kentucky 2 4th 73 Washington, D.C. 2 4th 28 Alabama 1 6th 70 New Jersey 1 19th 23 Other states NA NA 8 ##TABLE_END

(1) Excludes home office deposits. 

(2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2020. 

(3) As of December 31, 2020. 

Management believes that Truist's community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company's ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are highly competitive in meeting clients' expectations. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes as well as continued consolidation within the industry could result in competition from new and existing market participants. Truist's subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has increased competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to the same regulatory framework as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower costs. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects the Company&#8217;s ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. For additional information concerning markets, Truist's competitive position and business strategies, see "Market Area" above and "General Business Development" in the discussion that follows. 

General Business Development 

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist's long-term strategy encompasses both organic and inorganic growth, including mergers or acquisitions of complimentary financial institutions or other businesses. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy 

Truist's merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: 

&#8226; the organization must be a good fit with Truist's culture; 

&#8226; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive; 

&#8226; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist's risk appetite; and 

&#8226; the transaction must meet Truist's financial criteria. 

6 Truist Financial Corporation 

Truist's growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, based on geography and market conditions and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, certain lending businesses and fee income generating financial services businesses. 

Regulatory Considerations 

The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. 

Banking and other financial services statutes regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. 

The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. 

General 

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. 

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NYSE. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Examinations by Truist's regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. Following those examinations, Truist and Truist Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of Truist's operations. 

Under the FRB's Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must be rated "broadly meets expectations" or "conditionally meets expectations" for each of its three component ratings. 

The results of examinations by any of Truist's federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist's activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. 

Truist Financial Corporation 7 

FHC Regulation 

Truist has elected to be treated as a FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. In order to maintain its status as a FHC, Truist and its affiliated IDI must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct certain business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

Certain U.S. BHCs, including Truist, are subject to enhanced prudential standards. As such, Truist is subject to more stringent liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning and risk management standards than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. Truist became subject to the FRB's single-counterparty credit limit rule as of July 1, 2020, and is subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures, including exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, investments in securities and derivative transactions, to any other unaffiliated counterparty. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is subject to the standards applicable to Category III banking organizations, which generally include bank holding companies with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures. 

Resolution Planning 

As a Category III banking organization, Truist will be required to submit a resolution plan every three years, with the first resolution plan under the new rule to be submitted by September 29, 2021. Later resolution plans under this rule will alternate between full resolution plans and targeted resolution plans. The FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate Truist's resolution plan. The FRB and FDIC are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if the agencies determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could require the banking organization to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. 

In addition, Truist Bank is required by an FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking that would modify the content and frequency of resolution planning requirements for systemically important IDIs. While this proposal did not include specific details regarding the content or frequency of future bank level resolution planning requirements, the FDIC indicated that the revised approach would establish tiered resolution planning requirements based on the size, complexity and other factors of applicable IDIs. On January 19, 2021 the FDIC lifted a moratorium from November 2018 that delayed the next round of submissions of resolution plans for IDIs until this rulemaking process has been completed. The FDIC has indicated that firms will not be required to submit a resolution plan without at least 12 months advance notice. As Truist Bank has not received any written notice regarding its next resolution plan submission it does not currently have an anticipated submission date for a resolution plan. 

Capital Requirements 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements established by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These requirements are based on the capital framework developed by the BCBS for strengthening the regulation, supervision and risk management of banks under Basel III rules, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist's operations or financial condition. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist's or Truist Bank's ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications. 

8 Truist Financial Corporation 

In October 2019, the federal banking regulators adopted rules that revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large United States banking organizations, including Truist and Truist Bank, and that tailored the application of the FRB's enhanced prudential standards to large banking organizations. Under these rules, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to the standards applicable to "Category III" banking organizations. 

Under the regulatory capital rules, Truist's and Truist Bank's assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions' risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders' equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

In March 2020, the FRB adopted a final rule that integrates its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with existing regulatory capital requirements. For risk-based capital requirements for certain large BHCs, including Truist, the SCB replaced the capital conservation buffer, which was required in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and repurchases of any Tier 1 capital instrument, such as common and qualifying preferred stock, and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. The capital conservation buffer was 2.5% through September 30, 2020. Beginning in the 2020 CCAR cycle, the FRB will notify Truist of its SCB requirements, which is equal to the greater of (i) the difference between its starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of Truist's planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. The FRB assigned Truist an SCB of 2.7%, which is effective from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021. Although the final rule continues to require that the firm describe its planned capital distributions in its CCAR capital plan, Truist is no longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capital plan. Instead, Truist is subject to automatic distribution limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements, which include the SCB. 

For certain large banking organizations, the SCB could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.7%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.2%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.2%, and Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13%, to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the "Market Risk" section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to market risk management. 

In addition, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets, net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions. Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure of derivative contracts. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB adopted an interim final rule that temporarily changes the supplementary leverage ratio to exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of a firm's leverage exposure. The interim final rule applies to BHCs. The interim final rule became effective April 1, 2020 and will remain in effect through March 31, 2021. While a similar rule providing relief to IDIs was issued, Truist Bank has elected not to take advantage of this provision for Truist Bank. 

Truist Financial Corporation 9 

The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations are reflected in the table below. The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC's particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. 

The following table presents the minimum regulatory capital ratios, well-capitalized minimums, and minimum ratio plus the SCB or capital conservation buffer, as applicable: 

##TABLE_START Table 3: Capital Requirements Under Basel III Rules Minimum Capital Well Capitalized (1) Minimum Capital Plus Applicable Buffer (2) CET1 risk-based capital ratio: 

Truist 4.5 % NA 7.2 % Truist Bank 4.5 6.5 % 7.0 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: Truist 6.0 6.0 8.7 Truist Bank 6.0 8.0 8.5 Total risk-based capital ratio: Truist 8.0 10.0 10.7 Truist Bank 8.0 10.0 10.5 Leverage ratio: Truist 4.0 NA NA Truist Bank 4.0 5.0 NA Supplementary leverage ratio: Truist 3.0 NA NA Truist Bank 3.0 NA NA ##TABLE_END

(1) Reflects the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist under FRB regulations and the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist Bank. 

(2) Reflects a SCB of 270 basis points for Truist and a capital conservation buffer of 250 basis points for Truist Bank. 

In 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule that permits banking organizations that implement CECL before the end of 2020 to elect to follow the three-year transition available under the prior rule or a new five-year transition to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital. Under the five-year transition, the banking organization would defer for two years 100% of the day-one effect of adopting CECL and 25% of the cumulative increase in the allowance for credit losses since adoption of CECL. Following the first two years, the electing organization will phase out the aggregate capital effects over the next three years consistent with the transition in the original three-year transition rule. Truist has elected to use the five-year transition to phase in the impacts of CECL on regulatory capital. 

The U.S. banking agencies have adopted a final rule altering the definition of eligible retained income. Under the final rule, eligible retained income is the greater of a firm's (i) net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters. This definition applies with respect to all of Truist's capital requirements. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

In addition to the regulatory capital requirements, under the FRB's CCAR process, Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. 

The FRB's CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework also require BHCs subject to Category III standards, such as Truist, to conduct company-run stress tests and subject them to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. The company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distribution assumptions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios intended to stress the unique risk profile of the institution. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing internal supervisory models on the supervisory stress scenarios. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis. 

10 Truist Financial Corporation 

Starting in the third quarter of 2020, following the release of its annual stress testing and due to the ongoing economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB required certain large banking organizations, including Truist, to suspend share repurchases, cap common dividends per share to the amount paid in the second quarter, and further limit dividends according to a formula based on recent income. The FRB also required all large banks to resubmit and update their capital plans based on instructions and scenarios provided by the FRB. In December 2020, following a second round of stress testing based on the required capital plan resubmissions, the FRB modified these restrictions for the first quarter of 2021 to permit share repurchases and dividends according to a formula based on the average of the firm's net income for the four preceding calendar quarters. The FRB has not yet announced whether they intend to return to the SCB framework for purposes of capital distributions beginning in second quarter of 2021. 

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 5, 2021. The FRB is required to announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2021. 

In addition to the CCAR stress testing for Truist, Truist Bank conducts annual company-run stress tests. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. 

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC's 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

Effective July 2021, Truist will be subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR, calculated as the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding, must exceed 1.0x. Available stable funding represents a weighted measure of a company's funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company's equity and liabilities based on their expected stability. Required Stable Funding is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III banking organization, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to an NSFR requirement equal to 85% of the full requirement. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company. 

The Parent Company's ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC's net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company's ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities, is subject to the FRB's automatic restrictions on capital distributions under the FRB's capital rules. Truist's risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements are discussed below in the "U.S. Basel III Capital Rules" section. 

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

For additional information regarding limitations on dividends resulting from the 2020 CCAR process, refer to "Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements" above. 

Truist Financial Corporation 11 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies are required to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to financial institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." To be considered "well-capitalized," an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company's subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary's capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments. 

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm's length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Acquisitions 

Truist is subject to numerous laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations' compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, or such lesser or greater percentage established by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the ratio of the resulting company's liabilities exceeds 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties or other actions. 

12 Truist Financial Corporation 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. 

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

DIF Assessments 

Truist Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

As of June 30, 2020, the DIF reserve ratio fell to 1.30% due to significant growth in industry deposits during the first half of 2020. The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan on September 15, 2020, to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed 1.35% within eight years. The FDIC's restoration plan projects the reserve ratio to exceed 1.35% without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate, subject to ongoing monitoring over the next eight years. The FDIC could increase the deposit insurance assessments for certain insured depository institutions, including Truist Bank, if the DIF reserve ratio is not restored as projected. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The federal consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB's supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, HMDA, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. 

During November 2019, SunTrust Bank entered into a consent order with the FRB, relating to certain identified legacy compliance issues, and providing certain remediation actions and the verification of such actions regarding the identified issues. Truist Bank, as successor to SunTrust Bank, has committed to comply with the obligations in the order. Compliance with the order's obligations is currently being assessed by the FDIC. 

Patriot Act 

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions' operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent and report money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

Truist Financial Corporation 13 

BSA/AML and Sanctions 

Truist is subject to a number of anti-money laundering laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States. AML requirements are primarily derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists' ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, BSA/AML laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Financial institutions are also required to verify their customers' identity, verify the identity of beneficial owners of legal entity customers, conduct customer due diligence, report on suspicious activity, file reports of transactions in currency, and conduct enhanced due diligence on certain accounts. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or maintain adequate AML related controls can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage. 

The U.S. Treasury's OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, or countries, identified as "Specially Designated Nationals," such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These rules require the blocking of assets held by, and prohibit transfers of property to such individuals, entities or countries. Blocked assets, such as property or bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Truist maintains an OFAC program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject Truist to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties. 

On January 1, 2021, the U.S. Congress enacted the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, which seeks to modernize the anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism framework in the United States, by enhancing analytical capabilities of and improving coordination among law enforcement agencies. The act also seeks to streamline the currency transaction report and suspicious activity report requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act. The act directs the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the U.S. Treasury, to establish a national beneficial ownership reporting framework that requires non-exempt U.S. companies and companies doing business in the U.S. to disclose information about their beneficial ownership at the time of incorporation and subsequently when changes occur. In addition to being available to law enforcement, information maintained in the database would be available to financial institutions in support of their customer due diligence requirements. The act will be implemented through various regulations, reports, and assessments by the various financial regulators, which have not yet been proposed. The impact of such regulations on Truist will depend on the final requirements. 

Privacy and Cyber Security 

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber security through guidance, examinations and regulations. 

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary's policies and procedures. 

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which went into effect on January 1, 2020. Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and proposed legislation are still subject to revision or formal guidance and they may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company's understanding. California voters also recently passed the California Privacy Rights Act, which will take effect on January 1, 2023, and significantly modifies the California Consumer Privacy Act, including by imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding California consumers' rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring Truist to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. 

In addition, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by Truist. 

14 Truist Financial Corporation 

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank. 

In addition, in December 2020, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that, among other things, would require a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a "computer-security incident" that the banking organization believes in good faith could materially disrupt, degrade or impair its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Truist Bank's primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: "Outstanding," "Satisfactory," "Needs to Improve" or "Substantial Noncompliance." This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer's choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for "excessive or chronic" client use and undertake "meaningful and effective" follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. 

Volcker Rule 

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading activities, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds. 

In June 2020, the regulatory agencies charged with implementing the Volcker Rule finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule's restrictions on ownership interests in and relationships with covered funds. Among other things, these amendments permit banking entities to have relationships with and offer additional financial services to additional types of funds and investment vehicles. These requirements are not expected to have a material impact on Truist's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC's regulatory regime, including trade reporting and record keeping requirements, margin requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. Truist Bank expects to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer in 2021. Such registration will subject Truist Bank's security-based swaps business to requirements that are similar to the CFTC rules applicable to swap dealers, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, margin, and potentially mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements. 

Truist Financial Corporation 15 

Truist Bank's uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements. The variation margin requirements are currently in effect and the initial margin requirements are phasing in over a period of six years and will be fully phased-in on September 1, 2022, depending on the level of derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. Truist Bank's derivatives business involving uncleared swaps is expected to become subject to initial margin requirements established by the U.S. prudential regulators, which may subject Truist Bank to initial margin requirements that exceed current market practice. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 

Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist's registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries. Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist's ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns. 

In June 2019, the SEC finalized Regulation Best Interest, which imposes a new standard of conduct on SEC-registered broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers. In addition, the SEC finalized a new summary disclosure form that broker-dealers and investment advisers must provide to retail customers. Truist's broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries were required to comply with these requirements, as applicable, as of June 2020. 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. Compliance with the rule was originally required by April 1, 2020. In July 2019, the FDIC amended the rules related to recordkeeping requirements and timely deposit insurance determination to allow covered IDIs an optional one-year extension, which Truist elected, of the original compliance deadline to April 1, 2021. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning Truist's business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Government Response to COVID-19 

Congress, the FRB and the other U.S. state and federal financial regulatory agencies, as well as state legislatures and officials, have taken actions to mitigate disruptions to economic activity and financial stability resulting from COVID-19 and may continue to evolve such approaches and requirements in ways that further impact the business of the Company. The descriptions below summarize certain significant government actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions or government programs summarized. 

The CARES Act 

The CARES Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020 and subsequently has been amended several times, including by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. Among other provisions the CARES Act includes funding for the Small Business Administration to expand lending, relief from certain U.S. GAAP requirements to allow COVID-19-related loan modifications to not be categorized as troubled debt restructurings and a range of incentives to encourage deferment, forbearance or modification of loans. One of the key CARES Act programs is the PPP. PPP loans are available to a broader range of entities than ordinary Small Business Administration loans, require deferral of principal and interest repayment, and the loan may be forgiven. The PPP was recently expanded to permit a second round of funding, including for certain borrowers who have already received a PPP loan, subject to certain conditions. On February 22, 2021, changes were made to the PPP program to establish a 14-day exclusive application period beginning on February 24, 2021, for businesses and nonprofits with fewer than 20 employees. This is intended to give lenders and community partners more time to work with the smallest businesses, while also ensuring that larger PPP-eligible businesses still have time to apply and receive support prior to the program expiration on March 31, 2021. 

16 Truist Financial Corporation 

The CARES Act contains additional protections for homeowners and renters of properties with federally backed mortgages, including a 60-day moratorium on the initiation of foreclosure proceedings beginning on March 18, 2020 and a 120-day moratorium on initiating eviction proceedings effective March 27, 2020. Borrowers of federally backed mortgages have the right under the CARES Act to request up to 360 days of forbearance on their mortgage payments if they experience financial hardship directly or indirectly due to the coronavirus-related public health emergency. FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA have continued to extend their moratorium on foreclosures and evictions for single-family federally backed mortgages well into 2021. 

Also pursuant to the CARES Act, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to provide loans, guarantees and other investments in support of eligible businesses, states and municipalities affected by the economic effects of COVID-19. Some of these funds have been used to support the several FRB programs and facilities described below or additional programs or facilities that are established by the FRB under its Section 13(3) authority and meeting certain criteria. 

In addition to authorizing several programs to provide loans, guarantees and other investments in support of eligible organizations, states and municipalities affected by the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CARES Act also includes several measures that temporarily adjust existing laws or regulations. The CARES Act also provides financial institutions with the option to suspend certain GAAP requirements for coronavirus-related loan modifications that would otherwise constitute troubled debt restructurings and further requires the federal banking agencies to defer to financial institutions' determinations in making such suspensions. Refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" for Truist's policy related to COVID-19 loan modifications. 

FRB Actions 

The FRB took a range of actions to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. For example, on March 15, 2020, the FRB reduced the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 0.25% and announced that it would increase its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities and begin purchasing agency commercial mortgage-backed securities. The FRB also encouraged depository institutions to borrow from the discount window and lowered the primary credit rate for such borrowing by 150 basis points and extended the term of such loans up to 90 days. Reserve requirements have been reduced to zero as of March 26, 2020. 

In addition, the FRB established a range of facilities and programs to support the U.S. economy and U.S. marketplace participants in response to economic disruptions associated with COVID-19. Through these facilities and programs, the FRB took steps to directly or indirectly purchase assets from, or make loans to, U.S. companies, financial institutions, municipalities and other market participants. 

FRB facilities and programs that remain active include: 

&#8226; a PPP Liquidity Facility to provide financing related to PPP loans made by banks; 

&#8226; a Primary Dealer Credit Facility to provide liquidity to primary dealers through a secured lending facility; 

&#8226; a Commercial Paper Funding Facility to purchase the commercial paper of certain U.S. issuers; and 

&#8226; a Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility to purchase certain assets from, or make loans to, financial institutions providing financing to eligible money market mutual funds. 

FRB facilities and programs that expired as of December 31, 2020 included: 

&#8226; three Main Street Loan Facilities to purchase loan participations, under specified conditions, from banks lending to small and medium sized U.S. businesses; 

&#8226; a Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility to purchase corporate bonds directly from, or make loans directly to, eligible participants; 

&#8226; a Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility to purchase corporate bonds trading in secondary markets, including from exchange-traded funds, that were issued by eligible participants; 

&#8226; a Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to make loans secured by asset-backed securities; and 

&#8226; a Municipal Liquidity Facility to purchase bonds directly from U.S. state, city and county issuers 

Human Capital 

Truist believes it is crucial to attract and retain top talent who can further Truist's purpose, mission and values. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, Truist aims to provide teammates a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace that affords them opportunities to grow and develop in their careers. 

Truist's Compensation and Human Capital Committee provides input on talent management strategy for Truist and oversees the design and administration of material incentive compensation arrangements, as well as other human capital matters, including teammate diversity and inclusion, teammate engagement, and well-being initiatives. 

Truist Financial Corporation 17 

Truist's Enterprise Ethics Risk Office partners with a broad group of internal stakeholders to set standards for teammate conduct and facilitate the timely intake and routing of teammate concerns for review. As part of that effort, the team seeks to identify trends reflecting on organizational culture and/or operational challenges and to develop solutions. The results of these efforts are regularly shared with Truist's Executive-Level Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee and its Board of Directors. 

The following table presents a summary of teammates as of December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START Table 4: Teammate Summary # of Teammates % of Population Full-Time 52,294 95.1 % Part-Time 2,688 4.9 Total 54,982 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Leveraging a skilled contingent workforce is an important part of Truist's overall workforce strategy. It has enabled Truist the ability to drive process and system integrations during the Merger period while continuing to deliver on Truist's core purpose. 

Diversity, Equity &#38; Inclusion 

Truist's commitment to DEI is deeply rooted in the Company's purpose to inspire and build better lives and communities. Ensuring Truist attracts, develops, and retains diverse, talented, and caring people in the industry is critical to the Company's overall success. To deliver on Truist's DEI goals, Truist created a dedicated DEI Office, specifically focused on attracting and advancing diverse representation at key levels of the Company, embedding DEI in all Truist's business strategies and hiring and investing in diverse communities. The DEI Office partners with groups across Truist to develop tools, resources, and programs to positively influence the societal impact of clients, teammates, communities and stakeholders. 

Truist recognizes that ethnically diverse talent have historically been underrepresented in leadership positions at financial services companies. To emphasize Truist's commitment to advancing diversity, the Company committed to increasing its racially and ethnically diverse teammates among senior leadership positions to 15%. 

The following tables presents a summary of diversity statistics as of December 31, 2019: 

##TABLE_START Table 5: Teammate Diversity (1) Women People of Color Board of Directors 31.8 % 18.2 % Executive Leadership &#38; senior leaders 22.1 11.8 First / mid-level managers 54.1 24.7 Professionals 50.4 33.2 All others 76.9 40.9 All teammates 64.4 35.6 ##TABLE_END

(1) Source: EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2019. All others is a combination of sales workers and administrative support EEO-1 job categories. 

Talent Development 

Truist teammates have access to extensive programs and benefits for career advancement. Teammates can partner with a certified coach to help them focus, create clear goals and stay accountable to achieving those goals. Truist also provides tuition assistance so teammates can continue formal education by seeking degrees that align with career goals. 

In addition to career development opportunities, Truist provides a differentiated learning experience to new and existing teammates, including formal onboarding training to prepare new teammates through learning content libraries for individual development needs. Truist provides a wide range of forums for learning that include relevant current trends and emerging skills in the marketplace. 

Truist also has a Leadership Institute, a uniquely qualified leadership development center that creates dynamic leaders and increases teammate retention. Truist strives to succeed in maximizing the potential in every individual and instilling values and behaviors that create a strong culture of leadership. The Truist Leadership Institute combines expert psychological insight with lessons learned throughout its 60-year history of leadership development. This foundation has allowed Truist to provide teammates throughout the Company with the knowledge and skills to maximize performance. 

18 Truist Financial Corporation 

Health, Safety, and Wellness and COVID-19 

The health and safety of teammates are paramount and they have guided Truist's responses to the COVID-19 crisis. In a shift of operations, Truist enabled the majority of its workforce to work remotely, moved call centers to work-from-home status, provided teammates with the technology and resources to continue working, and enhanced cybersecurity. For teammates who needed to work in branches and offices, Truist implemented new cleaning routines, social distancing procedures, and wellness and hygiene measures. In 2020 Truist provided all teammates with resources to support their physical and mental well-being during this time. 

Website Access to Truist's Filings with the SEC 

Truist's electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Company's Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist's SEC filings are also available through the SEC's website at sec.gov. 

Corporate Governance 

Information with respect to Truist's Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist's Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com . Specifically, the Company makes available on its Investor Relations website, under the heading "Governance &#38; Responsibility" (i) its codes of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and teammates, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of the Company's Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of any of its codes of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the "Governance &#38; Responsibility" section of its Investor Relations website. 

Truist Financial Corporation 19 

Executive Officers 

##TABLE_START Executive Officer Recent Work Experience Years of Service Age Kelly S. King Chairman since January 2010. Chief Executive Officer since January 2009. 48 72 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer &#160; William H. Rogers, Jr. President and Chief Operating Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. 40* 63 President and Chief Operating Officer Daryl N. Bible Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. 13 59 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

&#160; Scott Case Chief Information Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Information Officer since February 2018. Chief Information Officer at Ciox Health from 2017 to 2018. Chief Technology Officer of SunTrust Consumer Segment from 2015 to 2017. 5* 50 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer 

Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. SunTrust Commercial and Business Banking Executive from 2013 to 2017. 15* 58 Senior Executive Vice President and Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group 

Ellen M. Fitzsimmons Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity since December 2019. Previously SunTrust General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2018. General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CSX Corporation from 2003 to 2017. 3* 60 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity Christopher L. Henson Head of Banking and Insurance since December 2019. President from December 2016 to December 2019 and Chief Operating Officer from January 2009 to December 2019. 36 59 Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Banking and Insurance 

&#160; Michael B. Maguire Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive. 18* 42 Senior Executive Vice President and Head of National Consumer Finance &#38; Payments 

Kimberly Moore-Wright, Chief Human Resources Officer since December 2019. Director of Marketing and Digital Sales from January 2016 to November 2019. Director of Retail and Commercial Marketing Strategy from January 2012 to December 2015. 25 47 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Brant J. Standridge Head of Retail Community Banking since December 2019. President, Retail Banking since January 2018. Lending Group Manager from August 2016 to December 2017. Regional President in Texas from January 2015 to August 2016. 22 45 Senior Executive Vice President and President, Retail Banking Clarke R. Starnes III Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. 38 61 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer &#160; Joseph M. Thompson Head of Truist Wealth since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Head of Private Wealth Management since August 2014. 27* 54 Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Truist Wealth 

David H. Weaver Head of Commercial Community Banking since December 2019. President, Community Banking since December 2016. Community Banking Group Executive from 2010 to December 2016. 25 54 Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Community Banking 

&#160; Dont&#225; L. Wilson Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer since November 2018. Chief Client Experience Officer since August 2016. Regional President in Georgia from December 2014 to July 2016. 22 44 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer 

##TABLE_END

* Reflects combined years of services at Truist and SunTrust. 

20 Truist Financial Corporation 

