 Risk Factors (Item 1A) 

The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in Item 1A of the Registrant&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Other than as set forth below, there were no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of the Registrant&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for Fifth Third&#8217;s business. 

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets and increased unemployment levels, all of which may become heightened concerns upon subsequent waves of infection or future developments. In addition, the pandemic resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities, including those in major markets in which the Bancorp is located or does business. 

As a result, the demand for the Bancorp&#8217;s products and services has been, and is expected to continue to be, significantly impacted. Furthermore, the pandemic could influence the recognition of credit losses in the Bancorp&#8217;s loan and lease portfolios and increase its allowance for credit losses as both businesses and consumers are negatively impacted by the economic downturn. In addition, governmental actions are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment, which could continue to adversely affect the Bancorp&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. The business operations of subsidiaries of the Bancorp, such as Fifth Third Bank, National Association, have been, and may also be disrupted in the future, if significant portions of their workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, travel restrictions, technology limitations and/or disruptions or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic. Furthermore, the business operations of subsidiaries of the Bancorp have been, and may again in the future be, disrupted due to vendors and third party service providers being unable to work or provide services effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic. An increase in the remote work force due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the potential for a long-term change in Fifth Third&#8217;s remote work strategy may also increase risks related to cybersecurity and information security. 

In response to the pandemic, the Bancorp provided financial hardship relief to borrowers that were negatively impacted by the pandemic and its related economic impacts. These programs included payment deferrals and forbearances for both commercial and retail borrowers. The Bancorp has also temporarily suspended all residential foreclosure activity. These actions are expected to negatively impact revenue and other results of operations of the Bancorp in the near term and, if not effective in mitigating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Bancorp&#8217;s customers, may adversely affect the Bancorp&#8217;s business and results of operations more substantially over a longer period of time. 

Governmental authorities have taken significant measures to provide economic assistance to households and businesses, to stabilize the markets and to support economic growth. For example, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB and other U.S. state and federal financial regulatory agencies took action to mitigate the resulting disruptions to economic activity and financial stability by implementing a number of facilities to provide emergency liquidity to various segments of the U.S. economy and financial markets. Many of these facilities expired on or before December 31, 2020 or were extended for brief periods into 2021. The expiration of these facilities could have an adverse effect on U.S. economy and ultimately on the Bancorp&#8217;s business. 

Among other relief programs, the Bancorp is a participating lender in the SBA&#8217;s Paycheck Protection Program. Paycheck Protection Program loans are fixed, unsecured, low interest rate loans that are guaranteed by the SBA and subject to numerous other regulatory requirements, and a borrower may apply to have all or a portion of the loan forgiven. If Paycheck Protection Program borrowers fail to qualify for loan forgiveness, the Bancorp faces a heightened risk of holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates for an extended period of time. While the Paycheck Protection Program loans are guaranteed by the SBA, various regulatory requirements will apply to the Bancorp&#8217;s ability to seek recourse under the guarantees and the related procedures are currently subject to uncertainty. If a borrower defaults on a Paycheck Protection Program loan, these requirements and uncertainties may limit the Bancorp&#8217;s ability to fully recover against the loan guarantee or to seek full recourse against the borrower. These assistance efforts may adversely affect the Bancorp&#8217;s revenue and results of operations and may make the Bancorp&#8217;s results more difficult to forecast as the Paycheck Protection Program forgiveness process has just begun and the timing and amount of forgiveness to which the Bancorp's borrowers will be entitled cannot be predicted. The Paycheck Protection Program and other government programs in which the Bancorp may participate are complex and the Bancorp&#8217;s participation may lead to governmental and regulatory scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to the Bancorp&#8217;s reputation. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts the Bancorp&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as its regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, will depend on highly uncertain future developments, including the scope and duration of the pandemic (including the possibility of further surges of COVID-19), the timing and efficacy of the vaccination program in the U.S. and further actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. Government actions to mitigate the economic suffering caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may not be successful or may result in increased pressure on the banking sector, which could adversely 

affect the Bancorp&#8217;s business, results of operations and financial condition more substantially over a longer period of time. In addition, the unique historical nature of the pandemic and the unprecedented level of governmental response may also significantly impact the Bancorp&#8217;s ability to effectively manage its business or predict future performance. 

As the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may require some time to fully recover from its effects, the length of which is unknown. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten many of the other risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Bancorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K, including, but not limited to, risks of credit deterioration, interest rate changes, rating agency actions, governmental actions, market volatility, theft, fraud, security breaches and technology interruptions. 

