 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a discussion of the many risks and uncertainties we face, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity), or prospects or the value of or return on an investment in Ally. The section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020, includes updates to these risks and uncertainties. The information presented below provides an update to, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and other information contained in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020. Except as presented below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors described in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers, and the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public-health crisis that has resulted in widespread volatility and deteriorations in household, business, economic, and market conditions, including in the United States where we conduct nearly all of our business. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our capital, liquidity, and other financial positions and on our business, results of operations, and prospects will depend on a number of evolving factors, including: 

&#8226; The duration, extent, and severity of the pandemic . COVID-19 has not yet been contained and could continue to affect significantly more households and businesses. The duration and severity of the pandemic remain impossible to predict. 

&#8226; The response of governmental and nongovernmental authorities and the effect on economies and markets . Many governmental and nongovernmental authorities initially responded to COVID-19 by curtailing household and business activity as a containment measure while simultaneously deploying fiscal- and monetary-policy measures to partially mitigate the adverse effects on individual households and businesses. Although this response slowed the rate of spread of COVID-19 and supported economic stability, the number of cases has risen meaningfully at times, and the potential exists for further resurgences to occur, especially during the upcoming cold-and-flu season. In addition, while monetary policy remains highly accommodative, a number of stimulative fiscal programs and actions have expired or been exhausted without renewal. National, regional, and local economies and markets could suffer further disruptions that are lasting. 

&#8226; The effect on our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers . COVID-19 and its associated consequences and uncertainties are affecting individuals, households, and businesses differently and unevenly. Many, however, have changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to restrict or alter commercial and social interactions. As a result, our credit, operational, and other risks have generally been elevated and are expected to remain so&#8212;if not increase further&#8212;for the foreseeable future. 

During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, the most notable impact to our results of operations was higher provision expense for credit losses. Our provision expense was $1.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, compared to $722 million during the same period in 2019, with the increase primarily driven by incremental reserves associated with a deterioration in macroeconomic variables such as unemployment during the nine months ended September 30, 2020. For more detail and further discussion, refer to the section titled COVID-19 Impacts within the MD&#38;A. Given the unpredictability of COVID-19 and its direct and indirect effects, however, our forecast of macroeconomic conditions and operating results&#8212;including expected lifetime credit losses on our loan portfolio&#8212;is subject to meaningful uncertainty. 

Through the second quarter of 2020, as governments acted to temporarily close or restrict the operations of businesses, including automotive dealers, and as many consumers and businesses changed their behavior in response, we experienced significant reductions in our consumer automotive loan applications. In addition, we observed downward pressure on the automotive sales and other operating results of our dealer customers, on their capacity to accept the return of leased vehicles, and on used-vehicle auction activity and values. Many automotive manufacturers and their suppliers also had taken measures to slow or shut down production in response to the pandemic, which negatively affected dealer inventory levels and sales and significantly reduced wholesale floorplan lending business to dealers. As consumers and businesses adapted to changed conditions and many governmental authorities relaxed their restrictions later in the second quarter, we began to observe a recovery in quality loan application volume and resulting booked originations. In addition, automotive manufacturers and suppliers restarted production, albeit at reduced levels, and we experienced our first month-over-month increase in wholesale floorplan balances in August since the pandemic began. For more detail and further discussion, including in connection with our non-automotive businesses, refer to the section titled Significant Business Developments Related to COVID-19 within the MD&#38;A. We cannot yet be confident in the sustainability of these improvements in our business or the trajectory of the macroeconomic outlook&#8212;especially with the recent resurgence of COVID-19 in much of the United States and ongoing uncertainties around the efficacy, availability, and acceptance of medical 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-Q 

treatments and potential vaccines&#8212;and the adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects could be significant as time goes on. 

Governments have taken unprecedented steps to partially mitigate the adverse effects of their actions to contain the spread of COVID-19. For example, in late March 2020, the CARES Act was enacted to inject more than $2 trillion of financial assistance into the U.S. economy. The FRB has taken decisive and sweeping actions as well. Since March 15, 2020, these actions have included a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate to zero to 0.25 percent, a program to purchase an indeterminate amount of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, and numerous facilities to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. Still, while monetary policy has remained highly accommodative since the declaration of the pandemic, fiscal stimulus has waned as a meaningful economic rebound developed over the summer and the political environment became more unstable with the approach of the 2020 elections. It is not yet clear whether the political environment will become more salutary after the 2020 elections or whether further stimulative fiscal-policy measures will be implemented. 

We also acted swiftly to support our customers with industry-leading relief programs, while prudently managing our credit risk exposure. For example, in our consumer automotive loan portfolio, existing customers had the option to elect to defer their payments for up to 120 days without late fees being incurred, but with finance charges continuing to accrue. This program was made available to all consumer automotive loan customers beginning March 18, 2020. The length of the deferral offering was reduced incrementally, until on June 21, 2020, we eliminated the offering and migrated back to our standard extension process. Approximately 1.2 million consumer automotive loan customers enrolled in the program, of which 99% had reached their scheduled expiration as of September 30, 2020. For our commercial dealer customers that were current on all payment obligations, we offered a waiver of curtailments on wholesale floorplan loans, an increase in floorplan advance rates, a deferral of interest and insurance charges on wholesale borrowings, and a deferral of term loan payments from April through July 2020. Approximately 2,290 or 73% of eligible dealers requested at least one form of this assistance for at least one month as part of this program. Approximately 32% of eligible wholesale dealers deferred wholesale interest and insurance payments during the third quarter of 2020, which represented a decline from the first and second quarters. Dealers that elected to defer wholesale interest and insurance payments have the option to repay such balances over a 4- or 12-month period without additional interest charges or fees. For more detail and further discussion, refer to the section titled Credit Quality Indicators in Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and to the section titled Risk Managemen t within the MD&#38;A. 

The degree to which our actions and those of governments and others will directly or indirectly assist our customers, counterparties, and third-party service providers and advance our business and the economy generally is not yet clear. For example, while our loan-deferral programs may better position customers to resume their regular payments to us in the future and enhance our brand and customer loyalty, these programs may negatively impact our performance and not be as successful as we expect in managing our credit risk. In addition, while the FRB&#8217;s accommodative monetary policy may benefit us to some degree by supporting economic activity among our customers, this policy and sudden shifts in it may inhibit our ability to grow or sustain net interest income and effectively manage interest-rate and market risks. Further, while extraordinary governmental intervention in the economy and markets has created stability, the scale of these actions inevitably heightens political, reputational, litigation, and similar risks for financial intermediaries like us. Also, while governmental stimulus and relief programs may have supported the financial condition of some of our customers, many of these programs and actions have expired or been exhausted and may not be renewed or replaced. 

We are unable to estimate the near-term and ultimate impacts of COVID-19 on our business and operations at this time. The pandemic and its direct and indirect effects could cause us to experience higher credit losses in our lending portfolio, additional increases in our allowance for credit losses, impairment of our goodwill and other financial assets, heightened volatility in and diminished access to capital markets and other funding sources, further reduced demand for our products and services, and other negative impacts on our financial position, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, while we continue to anticipate that our capital and liquidity positions will be sufficient, sustained adverse effects may impair these positions, prevent us from satisfying our minimum regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory requirements, and result in downgrades in our credit ratings. The COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental mandates and advisories also have necessitated changes in the way we and our third-party service providers continue operations, and we may face heightened security, information-technology, operational, and similar risks as a result. The length of time we and our third-party service providers may be required to operate under these circumstances, as well as the potential for conditions to worsen or for significant disruptions to occur, remains unpredictable. All of these risks and uncertainties can be expected to persist at least until the pandemic is demonstrably and sustainably contained, authorities cease curbing household and business activity, and consumer and business confidence recover. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-Q 

