                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Financial Firms to Modernize Networks ................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FinancialFirmstoModernizeNetworks                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Financial Firms to Modernize Networks                                   
          By Suman Bhattacharyya                                                  
          382 words                                                               
          5 January 2022                                                          
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Financial-services companies are looking to strengthen their technology plumbing in 2022 to improve current
          product offerings and launch new ones.                                  
          This involves modernizing networks and tapping emerging technologies like edge computing and
          decentralized infrastructure, also known as Web3, technology leaders said.
          Ally Financial Inc. said it is moving to route network traffic via software, allowing it to configure cloud and data
          center components remotely.                                             
          Traditionally, network activity was designed to flow through physical infrastructure. Apart from being
          inefficient, the legacy process introduces security vulnerabilities, said Sathish Muthukrishnan, chief
          information, data and digital officer at the consumer bank and auto lender.
          "We want to get rid of all the physical stuff and have software-defined networks that have the ability to
          understand the traffic that is coming in, is aware of all the different applications that have to process the traffic
          and will intelligently route it wherever it needs to go," with security protocols embedded, said Mr.
          Muthukrishnan.                                                          
          Ally Financial aims to have all of its applications running on the cloud by 2025, the company said.
                                                                                  
          Payment technology company Mastercard Inc. this year is focusing on enabling faster digital payments
          through edge computing, a distributed computing model where data are processed and analyzed on or near
          the device where they are generated instead of first being sent to a corporate cloud or data center.
          "It's putting intelligence right next to our customers, all the way to the edge of the customers, within or next to
          the devices that they're running," said Ed McLaughlin, Mastercard's president of operations and technology.
          The plan is to continue moving payment authorization decisions that previously would have been handled by
          a centralized cloud data center to the payment device, such as allowing a smartphone to unlock a subway
          turnstile.                                                              
                                                                                  
          The technology can speed up processing -- including authorization decisions -- while minimizing latency,
          and enhancing security, he said.                                        
          The technology also makes it easier for Mastercard to work with partners, who can connect directly to the
          Mastercard network, Mr. McLaughlin said.                                
          Web3, a loosely defined vision for a decentralized internet that uses technologies like blockchain to give
          users new ways to transact, is inspiring some companies anchored in the traditional financial world to offer
          new types of products.                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220105ei150000m                                      
          