                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TransUnion Brings Credit Data Checks To Crypto Lending..................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TransUnionBringsCreditDataChecksToCryptoLending                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology & Media                                                      
          TransUnion Brings Credit Data Checks To Crypto Lending                  
          By Sebastian Pellejero                                                  
          512 words                                                               
          13 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Cryptocurrency lenders are going to be able to start checking credit reports.
          TransUnion , one of the three major U.S. consumer credit reporting firms, will let consumers give blockchain
          companies access to their personal credit data through the security firm Spring Labs' ky0x Digital Passport.
          Consumers will be able to receive better interest rates when borrowing money from financial-services
          companies that operate on public blockchains such as Ethereum by providing this information, the companies
          said.                                                                   
          Cryptocurrency investors can currently borrow money by putting digital assets such as bitcoin up as
          collateral. The companies said that because lenders will be able to check a borrower's creditworthiness, they
          might issue loans that don't require any collateral at all.             
          More large financial institutions have been starting to participate in the crypto boom. Bank of New York
          Mellon Corp . and Fidelity Investments have announced plans to provide crypto services for institutional
          clients such as asset managers and hedge funds. Banks outside the U.S., including Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
          Argentaria SA and Commonwealth Bank of Australia , have started to sample ways of offering customers the
          ability to invest and store bitcoin and other digital assets.           
          Traditional consumer U.S. banks have been more wary. An association representing large banks said that
          current regulations would prevent them from holding cryptocurrencies. The Basel Committee on Banking
          Supervision , which sets global standards for banking regulation, laid out a proposal last year that would
          require lenders to set aside a dollar in capital for every dollar of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies they held,
          considering them among the riskiest assets a bank could own.            
          The market for decentralized finance, or DeFi, assets has grown significantly in recent years, analysts said.
          The total value of DeFi applications on the Ethereum blockchain soared to nearly $200 billion in November
          from around $20 billion the year before, according to JPMorgan .        
          DeFi faces several regulatory hurdles until it becomes mainstream, JPMorgan analysts wrote in a recent
          note.                                                                   
          "Enforcing know-your-customer and anti-money-laundering checks is a necessary first step, but a general
          perception that regulations would be naturally less effective on DeFi might prove a major obstacle going
          forward in terms of regulators allowing DeFi to transition into the mainstream," said the bank's analysts.
                                                                                  
          The Spring Labs' digital passport currently shows anti-money-laundering and know-your-customer
          verifications after users go through the registration process and attach the passport to their digital wallets.
          No personal data are publicly shared, just attestations of the completed processes, the companies said. They
          expect consumers' credit data to be available on the passport by the end of this year.
          TransUnion's president of U.S. markets and consumer interactive, Steve Chaouki , said that by providing
          credit and identity data on the blockchain, more companies will be able to access and develop DeFi and
          crypto applications while remaining compliant with regulators.          
          "By having this available, you begin to open the tap for capital coming in, and that increases the competition,"
          he said.                                                                
          Document J000000020220113ei1d00013                                      
                                                                                  
          