                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Meta Sets Booster Requirement .............................................................................................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MetaSetsBoosterRequirement                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Meta Sets Booster Requirement                                           
          By Chip Cutter                                                          
          645 words                                                               
          11 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Meta Platforms Inc . said that it would require Covid-19 booster shots for employees to work from its U.S.
          campuses and that it would delay fully opening those offices until late March, in another sign that the Omicron
          variant is shifting corporate reopening plans.                          
          The technology company, which owns Facebook , Instagram and WhatsApp, said Monday that, beginning
          March 28, employees who meet eligibility guidelines to receive the shots would need to show proof of a
          booster vaccination to use its offices.                                 
          "Boosters provide increased protection," a Meta spokesman said. "Given the evidence of booster
          effectiveness, we are expanding our vaccination requirement to include boosters."
          More companies are now putting such requirements in place, or offering incentives for workers to get
          additional doses.                                                       
          Bank of America Corp . said last week it would donate $100 to a food bank or hunger-relief organization for
          every U.S. employee who shows proof of a booster through the end of January. Executives at Jefferies
          Financial Group Inc . told staff in early December that the company would require everyone entering its
          offices or attending a company event to have a booster administered by Jan. 31, unless they are ineligible to
          receive one.                                                            
          Industrial real-estate company Prologis Inc . recently began requiring employees in the U.S. to get the
          Covid-19 booster within 30 days of their eligibility to receive the shot, unless they have a medical or religious
          exemption. Other companies, including meatpacker JBS USA Holdings Inc . and Benchmark Senior Living
          LLC, an operator of assisted-living facilities, have hosted booster clinics at company sites to make it easier for
          employees to get another shot.                                          
          The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hasn't changed the definition of what it means to be "fully
          vaccinated," but in a press briefing last week, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said the agency is now
          recommending that individuals stay "up to date" once they become eligible for additional doses. For policy
          makers, changing the definition of what it means to be fully vaccinated to also include boosters would be
          complicated because it would affect vaccine mandates that are being challenged in courts, The Wall Street
          Journal previously reported.                                            
          New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said last week that healthcare workers in the state would be required to get
          boosters to better protect them against Covid-19. California Gov. Gavin Newsom also said last month that
          state healthcare workers and employees in high-risk, congregate settings would be required to get a booster
          by Feb. 1.                                                              
          Meta had planned for its U.S. offices to fully reopen in late January. The company previously told the most of
          its U.S. staff that they can do their jobs remotely, if desired, or temporarily push back a return by an additional
          three to five months.                                                   
          The latest delay means a number of employees at Meta, and other white-collar companies, will have worked
          remotely for about two years since the World Health Organization 's 2020 pandemic declaration. Many
          companies had hoped to bring workers back in January, but the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases over the past
          few weeks has led many employers to again close offices, or to indefinitely pause reopening plans.
          Executives across the corporate landscape have said that it will be increasingly difficult to bring people back
          to offices after employees have grown so accustomed to doing their jobs from their homes.
          "We understand that the continued uncertainty makes this a difficult time to make decisions about where to
          work, so we're giving more time to choose what works best for them," said Janelle Gale, a vice president of
          human resources at Meta.                                                
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bank of America has encouraged employees at its U.S. offices to work remotely in recent weeks, amid rising
          Covid-19 infection rates nationally.                                    
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          David Benoit contributed to this article.                               
          Document J000000020220111ei1b0003d                                      
                                                                                  
          