                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Discover To Offer Direct Payments.......................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          DiscoverToOfferDirectPayments                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Discover To Offer Direct Payments                                       
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          456 words                                                               
          15 February 2022                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Discover Financial Services will soon give U.S. merchants the option to accept payments from shoppers'
          bank accounts -- no card needed.                                        
          The card company is joining with fintech firm Buy It Mobility Networks Inc., whose technology allows
          consumers to pay directly from their checking accounts using merchants' apps. The companies are expected
          to announce the partnership this week.                                  
          Such payment arrangements are popular in Asia -- Alipay and WeChat Pay are among the big players. They
          have been slower to take off in the U.S., where debit and credit cards reign. U.S. banks earn much higher
          fees on card purchases, giving them little incentive to encourage payments directly to and from bank
          accounts.                                                               
          Discover's network is plugged into some 11.8 million U.S. merchant locations, according to 2020 data from
          the Nilson Report, removing a barrier to acceptance that has thwarted others attempting to break into the
          business.                                                               
          Though its cards are widely accepted, Discover lags behind its bigger competitors -- Visa Inc., Mastercard Inc.
          and American Express Co. It accounted for just 2% of card transactions on major U.S. networks in 2020,
          according to the Nilson Report. Visa had 65%.                           
          "It'll give us at Discover another arrow in the quiver," said Jason Hanson, senior vice president of global
          business development at Discover.                                       
          Still, convincing people to change how they pay for things is easier said than done. Several years ago, BIM's
          technology was part of a short-lived effort by a group of large merchants to develop a mobile wallet. BIM is
          betting that discounts will help sway shoppers. Merchants pay lower fees on transactions that travel over the
          ACH, or Automated Clearing House, rails that connect bank accounts, allowing them to cut prices for
          shoppers who choose this option.                                        
          Shell PLC and Phillips 66 are among the companies already using BIM's technology at checkout. Customers
          who opt to pay by checking account at gas stations pay as much as 25 cents less a gallon than those who
          use cards.                                                              
          The discounts can encourage consumer loyalty to merchant brands. Consumers who pay by checking
          account tend to buy gas at locations where they know they will get the discount. For BIM's merchant clients,
          that translates into an average of $1,700 in annual additional revenue per active user compared with
          consumers who pay with cards, the company said.                         
          Grocery chains, pharmacies and quick-service restaurants have expressed interest in adopting BIM's
          technology but have hesitated due to the technical work involved, BIM Chief Executive Adam Frisch said.
          BIM approached Discover, which is an investor in the company, and conversations about a partnership
          picked up during the last six months.                                   
          Document J000000020220215ei2f00019                                      
                                                                                  
          