                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last ..................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers'BonusesAreFat,butBossesWarnItWon'tLast                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last                 
          By Liz Hoffman and David Benoit                                         
          925 words                                                               
          21 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Higher bonuses handed out this week across Wall Street came with a warning: Don't get used to it.
          After a blockbuster year, the five biggest investment banks paid out $142 billion in compensation for 2021,
          $18 billion more than in 2020. Pay, which on Wall Street is usually tightly tethered to how much money firms
          bring in, rose twice as fast as revenue.                                
          At JPMorgan Chase & Co., compensation for investment bankers and traders rose 13%, about three times as
          much as the extra revenue they produced. On Thursday, JPMorgan said it is paying Chief Executive Jamie
          Dimon $34.5 million for a record-breaking 2021, $3 million more than he made in the previous two years. The
          JPMorgan board had also awarded Mr. Dimon a $50 million special bonus earlier in 2021.
          Citigroup Inc.'s revenue declined slightly from 2020, yet the bank paid out $3 billion more to its employees
          than it did a year earlier.                                             
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. gave about half a billion dollars in special stock bonuses to its roughly 400
          partners, people familiar with the matter said.                         
                                                                                  
          But in meetings across Wall Street with their bosses, bankers said they were warned this week not to expect
          the same in 2022. U.S. stocks are off to a rocky start. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates
          several times this year, which will likely damp investor enthusiasm for high-yield bonds, shares of Silicon
          Valley startups and other big moneymakers for banks. A looming antitrust crackdown in Washington could
          slow a merger boom that last year generated a record $13.5 billion in fees for the top three U.S. banks.
          Goldman executives chose to give partners a special bonus -- rather than simply boost their standard stock
          awards -- to gift-wrap it as a one-time event and keep their expectations in check going forward, the people
          said.                                                                   
          "To the extent the environment in 2022 shifts, that compensation model is highly variable," Goldman's chief
          financial officer told analysts Tuesday, signaling to shareholders that the company's generosity was a one-off.
          Even the pomp of bonus day was missing this year. With banks' offices still sparsely populated due to the
          pandemic, there was less collective witness to the jubilant strut, or despondent shuffle, of employees freshly
          informed of their haul. And with New York still muted due to the Omicron variant, there was less of the
          celebratory spending that typically marks the occasion.                 
          A year ago, banks were similarly sitting on higher profits. But they were stingier with pay, waiting to gauge the
          economy's recovery and mindful of the optics of rewarding white-collar workers who had decamped to
          vacation homes while scores of people lost their jobs, or their lives, to the pandemic.
          This time, firms are under pressure to share the wealth. Bankers have watched their pay plateau while their
          former colleagues and recent college graduates find fortunes in bitcoin, SPACs and meme stocks.
          "It's wild how hot the labor market is," said Alan Johnson, a consultant who helps financial firms design their
          pay programs. "You've got crypto, you've got tech," he said, plus the ever-present "siren song of private
          equity," which pays far more than banks do.                             
                                                                                  
          Michael Bucella, who left his Goldman job in 2017 for BlockTower Capital, a crypto investment firm, said
          former colleagues are reaching out in large numbers. "'It's like, 'I'm in Miami, let's get dinner, and by the way
          here are three job offers I'm considering,'" he said. Crypto "offers compensation and a level of excitement that
          the banks just can't."                                                  
          The banks are trying.                                                   
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Compensation as a percentage of revenue at the five biggest companies ticked up to 35% from 33%, where it
          had been for two years. That means their bankers, traders, engineers and portfolio managers took home an
          extra $9 billion that might otherwise have gone back to shareholders or been invested in new loans or
          technology upgrades. Jefferies Financial Group LLC gave its most-junior employees a choice of gifts
          including a Peloton bike.                                               
          The shares given to partners at Goldman, which produced a record $59 billion in revenue in 2021, vest more
          quickly than the company's basic stock awards, people familiar with the matter said. That makes the shares
          more valuable and more competitive with the equity doled out by technology firms and some boutique
          banks, which is available quickly and with few restrictions on selling. 
          The payouts come after a go-go year that generated record revenue for banks but widespread burnout
          among their workers. Mr. Johnson said he counseled his clients not to expect outpourings of gratitude. "No
          matter how much you pay them, people believe that with all the stress they've gone through, they deserved
          more," he said.                                                         
          At JPMorgan, the bonus pool for investment bankers was about a third higher than in 2020, a person familiar
          with the matter said. Stock traders got higher payouts after a record year for that business, and bonuses for
          fixed-income traders, where revenue fell from a 2020 peak, were also on the whole higher.
          JPMorgan also gave its younger staff a raise this week for the second time in seven months, lifting base
          salaries to match rivals. First-year bankers will now make $110,000 a year, up from $85,000 at the start of
          2021, according to a person familiar with the matter.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220121ei1l00020                                      
                                                                                  
          