                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Frenzy Cools for Real-Estate Startups..................................................................................................................... 2
          Tesla Countersues JPMorgan in Fight Over Warrant Value .................................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last ..................................................................................... 6
          Outlook 2022 (A Special Report) --- The Pros Are Now Following The 'Dumb Money': After amateur day traders
          upended markets, it seems the... ............................................................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
          Pay on Wall Street Will Surge After Year of Record Profit ..................................................................................... 10
          Tech Shares Skid, but Dow Sets High ................................................................................................................... 12
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FrenzyCoolsforReal-EstateStartups                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Property Report                                                     
          Frenzy Cools for Real-Estate Startups                                   
          By Konrad Putzier                                                       
          869 words                                                               
          23 February 2022                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Property startups emerged as one of the hottest tickets for venture investors during a record-breaking 2021.
          The recent stock-market selloff is testing the limits of that boom.     
          Real-estate companies collected $12.2 billion in venture funding last year, according to private company data
          tracker CB Insights, up 34% from the previous peak in 2019.             
          The number of funds investing in the sector is also growing. Wilshire Lane Capital, based in Los Angeles,
          said Tuesday it has raised $40 million to date for its first vehicle, joining an expanding list of real
          estate-focused venture-capital firms. The fund's backers include landlord Morgan Properties, J.P. Morgan
          Asset Management and private-equity firm Nile Capital Group.            
          Venture investors say in the past real estate was slower to adopt new technologies than other major
          industries, such as finance. That is creating growth opportunities now for property startups -- sometimes
          referred to as proptech companies -- which the Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated.
          Low interest rates and rising stock prices made startup investments more appealing, while landlords looking
          to fill malls and office towers have been more willing to pay for new technologies such as touchless doors,
          lunch-delivery apps and clean-air filters.                              
          "2021 was a watershed year," Wilshire's founder Adam Demuyakor said.    
                                                                                  
          Now, the recent rout in technology stocks is putting venture appetite for real estate to the test.
          Share prices for some of the biggest real-estate companies that went public last year, including co-working
          company WeWork and property brokerage Compass Inc., have fallen significantly. That has made high
          valuations of private companies harder to justify.                      
          Although money is still flowing, valuations at some recent funding rounds have dropped by as much as half,
          investors say.                                                          
                                                                                  
          Mr. Demuyakor said he is mostly shying away from larger, older companies, where the growth in valuations
          has been strongest, and instead focusing on newer startups. The company's investments include real
          estate-fintech companies Esusu and Jetty, and metaverse real-estate firm Everyrealm.
          Real-estate companies used to get little attention from venture investors. That changed in the late 2010s,
          when SoftBank Group Corp. and other fund managers began pumping billions into companies such as
          WeWork, Compass and construction firm Katerra Inc.                      
          Venture investment in real estate dropped in 2020 following WeWork's botched IPO attempt and the start of
          the Covid-19 pandemic, but came soaring back in 2021.                   
          As in other industries, real-estate startups have benefited from central banks opening the cash spigot during
          the pandemic. A boom in blank-check companies targeting real-estate firms brought in new investors, said
          Allison Sedrish, who heads proptech coverage at Barclays.               
                                                                                  
          Startups also are getting more funding from landlords. Blackstone Inc., Brookfield Asset Management and
          RXR Realty have emerged as major backers of property startups.          
          "A lot of these traditional real-estate companies have immense cash balances, and one use of it is to invest in
          innovation," said Merritt Hummer, a partner at startup investor Bain Capital Ventures.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Brendan Wallace, co-founder ofFifth Wall Ventures, a real estate-focused venture-capital firm, said about half
          its $3 billion in assets under management comes from real-estate firms. Last week the company said it raised
          a new 140 million euro ($159 million) European fund.                    
          Mr. Wallace said he expects the boom to continue in part because the sector is newer and hasn't attracted as
          much funding in past years. "I don't think you've seen the same run-up that you have in other categories of
          venture," he said.                                                      
          Other investors say they see similarities to the dot-com bubble. "It feels the same to me," said Craig Spencer,
          chief executive officer of real-estate company Arden Group, which recently launched a proptech investing
          venture. "Before that bubble burst, there was a euphoria and a sense of things can only go up."
          The real-estate sector also poses challenges to entrepreneurs and their financial backers. Fields like property
          brokerage and office management have historically had low profit margins, and efforts to juice returns by
          leasing space long-term and subletting it short-term can backfire.      
          Flexible-office operator Knotel went bankrupt last year in part because of its massive lease obligations;
          WeWork narrowly avoided the same fate in late 2019. WeWork said it has since managed to get more
          longer-term commitments from its customers, reducing risk.              
                                                                                  
          Katerra went bankrupt last year after raising almost $3 billion, in part because it underestimated the
          complexity of the construction industry, former employees said. Sellers of software often depend on a few big
          landlords as customers, who may have little incentive to spend on technology when rents -- and profits -- are
          high.                                                                   
          Startup investors say they no longer underwrite capital-intensive real-estate companies as if they were nimble
          software firms. The massive size of the real-estate industry is still enticing, and a growing corporate interest in
          making buildings greener is creating new opportunities for startups to make money.
          "None of the capital has really dried up," Ms. Hummer said. "If anything, it feels like there's as much capital as
          there ever was in the market."                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220223ei2n0000x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TeslaCountersuesJPMorganinFightOverWarrantValue                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Tesla Countersues JPMorgan in Fight Over Warrant Value                  
          By David Benoit                                                         
          498 words                                                               
          25 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Tesla Inc. countersued JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Monday, intensifying a dispute over the payout for a bond
          sale the bank helped arrange in 2014.                                   
          JPMorgan started the fight with a lawsuit in November, claiming it was owed around $162 million more for a
          set of warrants it had acquired as part of the bond sale. Tesla on Monday said the bank wasn't entitled to the
          billions of dollars in stock it got last year from those warrants.      
          The dispute is lifting the curtain on a testy relationship between the nation's biggest bank and the world's
          most valuable auto maker.                                               
          JPMorgan has been spurned by Tesla on business dealings and executives at the companies have clashed,
          including chief executives Jamie Dimon and Elon Musk, The Wall Street Journal has reported.
          Tesla claimed that the feud is what is really behind JPMorgan's suit. It alleged the bank's actions amounted to
          "bad faith and avarice."                                                
                                                                                  
          "JPM pressed its exorbitant demand as an act of retaliation against Tesla both for it having passed over JPM
          in major business deals and out of senior JPM executives' animus toward Mr. Musk," Tesla alleged.
          Mr. Musk said he would write a one-star review on Yelp if the bank didn't withdraw the suit.
          JPMorgan said Monday that "there is no merit to their claim. This comes down to fulfilling contractual
          obligations."                                                           
                                                                                  
          The dispute centers on one of Mr. Musk's more turbulent episodes, when he toyed with taking Tesla private in
          2018. He was later forced to relinquish his title as chairman in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission over his tweets about it.                                    
          In 2014, JPMorgan acquired warrants from Tesla as part of a convertible bond sale it worked on for the auto
          maker with other banks.                                                 
          The warrants allowed the banks to acquire stock in Tesla at a set price when they expired in June and July
          2021.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan has claimed Mr. Musk affected the value of the warrants when he tweeted in 2018 that he had the
          funding to take Tesla private. The bank used his tweets as justification to lower the strike price of the
          warrants, allowing it to get more profit if Tesla's stock kept rising.  
          Last summer, Tesla paid up based on the original price but refused to accept JPMorgan's change. The bank
          got what amounted to billions of dollars in stock, Tesla said Monday.   
          Tesla on Monday said JPMorgan had no right to make the change and demand more money, in part because
          it said the bank didn't really believe Mr. Musk would take Tesla private. It said Mr. Musk's tweets didn't impact
          the value and that none of the other banks made the change.             
          Tesla said the bank broke the contract and instead should have canceled the warrants and returned them.
          The suit is seeking unspecified damages and fees from the bank.         
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220125ei1p0000f                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers'BonusesAreFat,butBossesWarnItWon'tLast                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last                 
          By Liz Hoffman and David Benoit                                         
          925 words                                                               
          21 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Higher bonuses handed out this week across Wall Street came with a warning: Don't get used to it.
          After a blockbuster year, the five biggest investment banks paid out $142 billion in compensation for 2021,
          $18 billion more than in 2020. Pay, which on Wall Street is usually tightly tethered to how much money firms
          bring in, rose twice as fast as revenue.                                
          At JPMorgan Chase & Co., compensation for investment bankers and traders rose 13%, about three times as
          much as the extra revenue they produced. On Thursday, JPMorgan said it is paying Chief Executive Jamie
          Dimon $34.5 million for a record-breaking 2021, $3 million more than he made in the previous two years. The
          JPMorgan board had also awarded Mr. Dimon a $50 million special bonus earlier in 2021.
          Citigroup Inc.'s revenue declined slightly from 2020, yet the bank paid out $3 billion more to its employees
          than it did a year earlier.                                             
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. gave about half a billion dollars in special stock bonuses to its roughly 400
          partners, people familiar with the matter said.                         
                                                                                  
          But in meetings across Wall Street with their bosses, bankers said they were warned this week not to expect
          the same in 2022. U.S. stocks are off to a rocky start. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates
          several times this year, which will likely damp investor enthusiasm for high-yield bonds, shares of Silicon
          Valley startups and other big moneymakers for banks. A looming antitrust crackdown in Washington could
          slow a merger boom that last year generated a record $13.5 billion in fees for the top three U.S. banks.
          Goldman executives chose to give partners a special bonus -- rather than simply boost their standard stock
          awards -- to gift-wrap it as a one-time event and keep their expectations in check going forward, the people
          said.                                                                   
          "To the extent the environment in 2022 shifts, that compensation model is highly variable," Goldman's chief
          financial officer told analysts Tuesday, signaling to shareholders that the company's generosity was a one-off.
          Even the pomp of bonus day was missing this year. With banks' offices still sparsely populated due to the
          pandemic, there was less collective witness to the jubilant strut, or despondent shuffle, of employees freshly
          informed of their haul. And with New York still muted due to the Omicron variant, there was less of the
          celebratory spending that typically marks the occasion.                 
          A year ago, banks were similarly sitting on higher profits. But they were stingier with pay, waiting to gauge the
          economy's recovery and mindful of the optics of rewarding white-collar workers who had decamped to
          vacation homes while scores of people lost their jobs, or their lives, to the pandemic.
          This time, firms are under pressure to share the wealth. Bankers have watched their pay plateau while their
          former colleagues and recent college graduates find fortunes in bitcoin, SPACs and meme stocks.
          "It's wild how hot the labor market is," said Alan Johnson, a consultant who helps financial firms design their
          pay programs. "You've got crypto, you've got tech," he said, plus the ever-present "siren song of private
          equity," which pays far more than banks do.                             
                                                                                  
          Michael Bucella, who left his Goldman job in 2017 for BlockTower Capital, a crypto investment firm, said
          former colleagues are reaching out in large numbers. "'It's like, 'I'm in Miami, let's get dinner, and by the way
          here are three job offers I'm considering,'" he said. Crypto "offers compensation and a level of excitement that
          the banks just can't."                                                  
          The banks are trying.                                                   
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Compensation as a percentage of revenue at the five biggest companies ticked up to 35% from 33%, where it
          had been for two years. That means their bankers, traders, engineers and portfolio managers took home an
          extra $9 billion that might otherwise have gone back to shareholders or been invested in new loans or
          technology upgrades. Jefferies Financial Group LLC gave its most-junior employees a choice of gifts
          including a Peloton bike.                                               
          The shares given to partners at Goldman, which produced a record $59 billion in revenue in 2021, vest more
          quickly than the company's basic stock awards, people familiar with the matter said. That makes the shares
          more valuable and more competitive with the equity doled out by technology firms and some boutique
          banks, which is available quickly and with few restrictions on selling. 
          The payouts come after a go-go year that generated record revenue for banks but widespread burnout
          among their workers. Mr. Johnson said he counseled his clients not to expect outpourings of gratitude. "No
          matter how much you pay them, people believe that with all the stress they've gone through, they deserved
          more," he said.                                                         
          At JPMorgan, the bonus pool for investment bankers was about a third higher than in 2020, a person familiar
          with the matter said. Stock traders got higher payouts after a record year for that business, and bonuses for
          fixed-income traders, where revenue fell from a 2020 peak, were also on the whole higher.
          JPMorgan also gave its younger staff a raise this week for the second time in seven months, lifting base
          salaries to match rivals. First-year bankers will now make $110,000 a year, up from $85,000 at the start of
          2021, according to a person familiar with the matter.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220121ei1l00020                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Outlook2022(ASpecialReport)---TheProsAreNowFollowingThe'DumbMoney':Afteramateurdaytradersupendedmarkets,itseemsthe...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Outlook 2022 (A Special Report) --- The Pros Are Now Following The 'Dumb Money': After amateur
          day traders upended markets, it seems the retail revolution is here to stay
          By Caitlin McCabe                                                       
          898 words                                                               
          18 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Last year, amateur investors took financial markets by storm. This year, Wall Street professionals are
          watching them closely.                                                  
          Fund managers who might have once derided small-time day traders as "dumb money" are scouring
          social-media posts for clues about where the herd might veer next. Some 85% of hedge funds and 42% of
          asset managers are now tracking retail-trading message boards, according to a survey by Bloomberg
          Intelligence.                                                           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. in September introduced a new data product that includes information on which
          securities individual investors are likely buying and selling, as well as which sectors and stocks are being
          talked about on social media. About 50 clients, including some of the largest asset and quant managers, are
          testing the product, the bank says. JPMorgan equity traders are also using it to help manage their own risk.
          "The flow from retail is not something you can ignore if you are a professional investor," says Chris Berthe,
          JPMorgan's global co-head of cash equities trading. "It's a whole new investor class that has emerged, and
          it's an investor class that's actually getting themes right."           
          The shift illustrates just how much the rookies have changed the investing landscape. A year ago, market
          observers were questioning if the retail revolution would continue. Now many are asking what it will look like
          this year.                                                              
          After shying away from active investing for much of the past decade, millions of Americans, hunkered down at
          home because of Covid-19, became day traders in 2020. Enticed by volatile markets and phone apps that
          made it free to trade stocks, they flocked to social media for investing ideas. That year, they piled into stocks
          like Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (and ultimately were rewarded when the car-rental company exited
          bankruptcy). It is estimated that more than 10 million individual investors opened new brokerage accounts in
          2020, according to Devin Ryan, director of financial-technology research at JMP Securities.
          Last year the trends from 2020 accelerated. JMP Securities estimates that a further 15 million Americans
          signed up for brokerage accounts in 2021. Social-media forums became increasingly used for trading. Some
          individual investors used their growing numbers to send stocks including GameStop Corp. and AMC
          Entertainment Holdings Inc. flying.                                     
          JPMorgan estimates that individual investors accounted for more than a third of daily trading activity several
          times over the past 18 months, reaching nearly 40% of shares traded on peak days.
          To be sure, many of the newbies lost money. Many amateur investors bought into buzzy shares near the top
          of rallies, only to watch the prices rapidly plummet.                   
          Individual traders in 2021 purchased a net $292 billion of U.S. stocks and exchange-traded funds, according
          to Vanda Research's VandaTrack platform, which tracks and sells data on the purchases of U.S. equities by
          individual investors. That is more than seven times the amount in 2019. Individual investors so far appear
          poised to continue similar levels of buying activity in 2022.           
          Analysts expect a bumpier road ahead for U.S. stocks this year, and some money managers believe that any
          prolonged volatility could wash individual investors out of the market. Many say that today's activity resembles
          the late 1990s, when individual investors piled into trading only to flee when the dot-com bubble burst.
          So far, individual investors have shown a strong stomach. Last year, the group's eight largest buying days by
          dollar volume occurred when the S&P 500 sank 1.3% or more, VandaTrack data show.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          By some accounts, newbie investors have altered some professional investors' trading strategies. Meme
          stocks like GameStop had high levels of short interest before they caught the attention of Reddit traders. That
          means other investors -- usually professionals -- were betting those stocks would fall. When shorting a stock,
          an investor borrows shares of a company and sells them, hoping to buy them back later at a lower price.
          When the amateurs sent GameStop and other stocks soaring, the short sellers were sometimes forced to buy
          back shares, often at much higher prices.                               
          These days, investors are avoiding taking big chances with short-selling plays, according to an analysis by
          Ihor Dusaniwsky. He is head of predictive analytics at S3 Partners, a technology and data analytics firm
          that tracks activity by short sellers.                                  
          Just seven stocks in the U.S. market had short interest of 40% or more at the end of 2021, according to his
          analysis of stocks where at least $10 million of shares had been sold short. That was down from 40 stocks at
          the beginning of January 2020 and 19 stocks in January 2021.            
          Last year, S3 started offering new tools that tell clients which stocks have crowded levels of short interest and
          which could leave them vulnerable to sudden losses if individual investors pile in.
                                                                                  
          "In the back of every hedge fund's mind is, 'I don't want to be on the wrong side of a meme-stock play,' " Mr.
          Dusaniwsky says. "It's a full-time job to make sure you don't get hit by a bus."
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Ms. McCabe is a Wall Street Journal reporter in New York. Email caitlin.mccabe@wsj.com.
          Document J000000020220118ei1i0000b                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PayonWallStreetWillSurgeAfterYearofRecordProfit                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Pay on Wall Street Will Surge After Year of Record Profit               
          By Lananh Nguyen                                                        
          1,003 words                                                             
          15 January 2022                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Quarterly profit at JPMorgan Chase was down, but it still earned a record $48.3 billion for the year. Citi's
          annual profit nearly doubled, even though quarterly profit fell 26 percent.
          Coming off a year of blockbuster profits, Wall Street is handing out fatter paychecks even as uncertainty
          creeps into the economic outlook.                                       
          JPMorgan Chase reported record profits for the year on Friday, and Citigroup's annual profit more than
          doubled. But both banks said the costs of doing business were going up: Higher compensation curbed their
          final quarterly earnings of 2021.                                       
          The bigger payouts coincide with a labor market in which demand is high for workers, who have been
          hopping between jobs and winning wage increases.                        
          ''We want to be very, very competitive on pay,'' Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, told analysts on a
          conference call Friday. ''There's a lot more compensation for top bankers and traders and managers, who I
          should say, by the way, did an extraordinary job in the last couple years.''
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan, the country's largest bank by assets, posted a record $48.3 billion in profit in 2021, but its profit in
          the three months ending in December fell 14 percent, to $10.4 billion, from the same quarter in 2020, despite
          a 37 percent jump in fees collected by its investment bankers.          
          Revenues were roughly flat for the quarter, and much of the decline in profit was a result of raising pay and
          spending more on technology, the company said in its earnings statement.
          ''There is a war for talent -- it's real,'' and it will probably spark higher compensation across Wall Street, said
          David George, a senior bank analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company in St. Louis. JPMorgan's position as an
          industry leader means that ''if they're going to spend a lot of money, others are going to have to follow suit or
          else they'll be vulnerable,'' Mr. George said.                          
          Two other banking giants -- Citigroup and Wells Fargo -- also reported higher annual profits on Friday. Top
          executives from all three banks were quizzed on earnings calls about inflation, which has climbed to the
          highest level in four decades.                                          
          While rising prices are making businesses more uncertain about the future of the pandemic-stricken economy
          and knocking consumer confidence as housing, gas and food become more expensive, they have also
          helped American workers clinch higher incomes.                          
                                                                                  
          Wages are rising across the economy -- in December, average hourly earnings were up 4.7 percent from a
          year earlier. The issue of pay has been particularly fraught on Wall Street: Banks have raised starting pay for
          junior bankers as a reward for grueling jobs with long hours, but for some, that is not enough to restore the
          allure of a career in finance.                                          
          ''There's a lot of competitive pressure out there on wages and pay,'' affecting everyone from senior staff to
          entry-level employees at Citigroup, Mark Mason, the bank's chief financial officer, told journalists on a
          conference call.                                                        
          Jane Fraser, Citigroup's chief executive, told analysts that the company planned to change its compensation
          structure for executives and leaders of business units to give them more stock instead of cash as an incentive
          to boost performance.                                                   
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Like JPMorgan, Citigroup reported lower fourth-quarter profit, sliding 26 percent to $3.2 billion but still
          exceeding analyst forecasts. For the year, profit nearly doubled, to $21.9 billion.
          Wells Fargo bucked the quarterly trend: Profit increased 86 percent to $5.8 billion. And full-year profit rose to
          $21.5 billion in 2021 -- more than six times that of 2020, when the company stockpiled rainy-day funds in
          case of a surge in loan defaults that did not materialize.              
          While the fourth-quarter results at JPMorgan and Citigroup may have taken some shine off 2021, it was still a
          banner year. Banks' consumer divisions recovered as Americans emerged from pandemic shutdowns and
          spent more on goods, travel and entertainment. And lenders cashed in as they advised companies on a flurry
          of mergers and acquisitions. Goldman Sachs -- which reports next week, along with Bank of America and
          Morgan Stanley -- had already exceeded its record full-year profit by the end of September.
          Bank executives have been upbeat about the economy in recent months, particularly during periods that the
          pandemic ebbed. On Friday, top bankers acknowledged the potential for disruptions from rising prices and
          the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which has caused staffing shortages in schools and businesses, but
          they maintained their rosy outlook about the direction the economy is heading.
          ''Everybody seems to be getting more and more confident that the recovery is continuing,'' Michael P.
          Santomassimo, the chief financial officer of Wells Fargo, said on a conference call. Given consumer spending
          and business activity, ''we're optimistic,'' he said.                   
          Shares of Wells Fargo climbed 3.7 percent on Friday, while JPMorgan slid 6.2 percent and Citigroup dropped
          1.3 percent. The KBW index of bank stocks has risen more than 11 percent this month as investors predict
          the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates this year to get inflation under control.
          Rising rates would clear a path for banks to increase their profits: They would be able to charge customers
          more in interest.                                                       
                                                                                  
          That would take some of the sting out of the rising labor costs driven by what Wells Fargo's chief, Charles W.
          Scharf, called a ''very, very competitive'' market for talent that is giving many workers opportunities to move
          on for bigger paychecks.                                                
          But Mr. Scharf wasn't overly concerned about attrition.                 
                                                                                  
          ''We never want to lose good people,'' he said. ''But it happens.''     
          Stephen Gandel contributed reporting.                                   
                                                                                  
          Stephen Gandel contributed reporting.                                   
          JPMorgan Chase posted $48.3 billion in profit last year, but its profit in the last quarter of 2021 fell 14 percent
          from the same quarter in 2020. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
          Document NYTF000020220115ei1f0003k                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TechSharesSkid,butDowSetsHigh                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Tech Shares Skid, but Dow Sets High                                     
          By The Associated Press                                                 
          686 words                                                               
          5 January 2022                                                          
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          A slide in technology stocks left the S&P 500 slightly lower on Wall Street Tuesday, even as the Dow Jones
          industrial average marked another all-time high.                        
          The S&P 500 slipped 0.1 percent, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite fell 1.3 percent after a day of
          choppy trading. The Dow rose 0.6 percent, thanks partly to solid gains by Caterpillar and JPMorgan Chase,
          which rose 5.4 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively.                   
          Banks were among the biggest gainers as bond yields rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year Treasury to
          1.65 percent from 1.63 percent late Monday. The yield was at 1.51 percent on Friday. When investors sell
          bonds their prices fall and their yields rise.                          
          More than 65 percent of the stocks in the S&P 500 rose. Still, the slump in technology stocks, which are the
          most heavily weighted sector in the benchmark index, left the S&P 500 in the red. Microsoft fell 1.7 percent,
          Apple slid 1.3 percent and chip-maker Nvidia dropped 2.8 percent.       
          ''Interest-rate sensitive sectors are up and those longer-term growth sectors are down today; not surprising,
          given the two-day move in the 10-year Treasury,'' said Tom Hainlin, a national investment strategist at U.S.
          Bank Wealth Management. ''You're seeing investors price in fairly strong growth in inflation expectations for
          the future, or at least for 2022.''                                     
          The S&P 500 fell 3.02 points to 4,793.54. The Nasdaq slid 210.08 points to 15,622.72. The Dow gained
          214.59 points to 36,799.65.                                             
                                                                                  
          Smaller company stocks gave up a little ground. The Russell 2000 index fell 3.68 points, or 0.2 percent, to
          2,268.87.                                                               
          Stocks got 2022 off to a good start Monday, with the S&P 500 and Dow setting new highs. A mix of economic
          data and corporate quarterly earnings reports should give investors some insight into the impact that the
          coronavirus pandemic and persistently rising inflation are having on companies and consumers.
          The job market will be a major focus for investors, starting with the Labor Department's jobs report for
          December, which will be released Friday. On Tuesday, the agency's monthly Jobs Openings and Labor
          Turnover Survey showed that a record 4.5 million American workers quit their jobs in November, a sign of
          confidence and more evidence that the U.S. job market is bouncing back strongly from last year's coronavirus
          recession.                                                              
          ''Markets are going to be trying to look through the year,'' said Brad McMillan, the chief investment officer for
          Commonwealth Financial Network. ''Right now, markets are cautiously confident.''
          OPEC and allied oil-producing countries plan to stick with their road map to slowly restore cuts in output
          made during the depths of the pandemic, including adding 400,000 barrels per day in February.
                                                                                  
          Some sectors of the economy are still struggling, especially with supply chain problems. Growth in
          manufacturing slowed in December to an 11-month low, according to The Institute for Supply Management, a
          trade group of purchasing managers. The organization will release its December report for the service sector
          on Thursday.                                                            
          Investors are also anticipating the minutes from the Federal Reserve's latest policy meeting in December, set
          for release on Wednesday. The central bank plans to hasten the withdrawal of its support for the markets and
          economy in the face of rising inflation. It will speed up its withdrawal of bond purchases that have helped
          Page 12 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          keep interest rates low, and investors are closely watching the Fed for any signals on when it will eventually
          raise its benchmark interest rate.                                      
          ''The big question is how worried is the Fed about inflation,'' Mr. McMillan said. ''We're really on the cusp of
          seeing how the Fed is going to move and the minutes will be informative about that.''
          Walgreens, Constellation Brands and Conagra will report their latest quarterly earnings on Thursday.
                                                                                  
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)                         
          Document NYTF000020220105ei1500050                                      
                                                                                  
          