Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Morgan Stanley, following your requested format:

```
```
"We go through periods where we look stupid compared to a lot of other people, or to the market," says No. 1
manager Dennis Lynch, head of the Counterpoint Global team at Morgan Stanley Investment Management
and manager of Morgan Stanley Institutional Discovery Portfolio (MPEGX). He's looking smart now: The fund
won our latest Winners' Circle contest with a 12-month total return of 56.2%.
For the year to date through June 30, the fund was up 59.3%.            
The long-term focus helped Mr. Lynch and his colleagues identify early some of those businesses that have
held up during selloffs, or even profited during the pandemic, like videoconferencing app Zoom Video
Communications Inc. Certainly, a combination of skill and luck led to Morgan Stanley growth-stock funds
capturing three spots out of the top five in this quarter's collection of winning managers.
The strong performance of his Discovery fund, as well as Morgan Stanley Insight (CPODX) and Morgan
Stanley Institutional Growth (MSEQX) -- which ranked No. 3 and No. 5, with returns of 49.0% and 46.3% -- is
the result, Mr. Lynch says, of winnowing through broad indexes in quest of outsize long-term potential. In an
environment like this, Mr. Lynch argues that selloffs and rallies grab headlines but don't capture an investor's
real opportunities and risks.                                           
Other funds run by the two teams at Morgan Stanley and Zevenbergen also made the list of the 10 best
performers, based on data from Morningstar: In all, seven of these top 10 actively managed funds were run
by the same two growth-investing teams.                                 
Mr. Lynch began accumulating a stake in Zoom when it went public last year and added to his funds' holdings
in the final months of 2019. "We thought it had interesting qualities even before all this happened," says Mr.
Lynch. "It's hard to call anyone a winner at a time like this, but [Zoom's] CEO and founder has done some
pretty incredible things and been impressive in how he has reacted to some of" the firm's problems and
growing pains. Specifically, Mr. Lynch points to Zoom's rapid moves to address security by recruiting
experienced top talent in that area.                                    
Both investment-management teams emphasize the long-term nature of their strategies. "People spend too
much time talking about tactics and timing; about when they are buying versus what they are buying," says
Mr. Lynch.                                                              
Other holdings in Mr. Lynch's funds that he believes will reward his investors in both the short and longer term
include music-streaming service Spotify Technology SA and Twilio Inc., which enables consumers to
communicate more effectively with newer businesses like ride-sharing and food/merchandise delivery
companies. Mr. Lynch says that while Twilio stock lagged behind the market at the height of the pandemic
selloff, its fundamentals remain strong and it has had a pickup in usage by new clients including health-care
providers. "We could have overreacted and sold it," Mr. Lynch says. Instead, he focused on that long-term
potential to expand its reach and market share.                         
"We're not trying to make any short-term predictions about where we go from here," says Mr. Lynch. In this
environment, as in any other, "You have to be willing to be different and often be willing to look like a fool,
over shorter time periods. You can never have the mind-set that you've won the game."
```
```