 Item 1. Business 

&#160; 

General 

First Citizens BancShares, Inc. (&#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;BancShares&#8221;) was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on August 7, 1986, to become the holding company of First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company (&#8220;FCB,&#8221; or &#8220;the Bank&#8221;), its banking subsidiary. FCB opened in 1898 as the Bank of Smithfield in Smithfield, North Carolina, and later changed its name to First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company. BancShares has expanded through de novo branching and acquisitions and now operates in 19 states, providing a broad range of financial services to individuals, businesses and professionals. At December 31, 2020, BancShares had total consolidated assets of $49.96 billion. 

Throughout its history, the operations of BancShares have been significantly influenced by descendants of Robert P. Holding, who came to control FCB during the 1920s. Robert P. Holding&#8217;s children and grandchildren have served as members of the Board of Directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;), as chief executive officers and in other executive management positions and, since BancShares&#8217; formation in 1986, have remained shareholders owning a large percentage of its common stock. 

The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Frank B. Holding, Jr., is the grandson of Robert P. Holding. Hope Holding Bryant, Vice Chairman of BancShares, is Robert P. Holding&#8217;s granddaughter. Peter M. Bristow, President of BancShares, is the brother-in-law of Frank B. Holding, Jr. and Hope Holding Bryant. 

BancShares seeks to meet the financial needs of both individuals and commercial entities in its market areas through a wide range of retail and commercial banking services. Loan services include various types of commercial, business and consumer lending. Deposit services include checking, savings, money market and time deposit accounts. BancShares&#8217; subsidiaries also provide mortgage lending, a full-service trust department, wealth management services for businesses and individuals, and other activities incidental to commercial banking. FCB&#8217;s wholly owned subsidiaries, First Citizens Investor Services, Inc. (&#8220;FCIS&#8221;) and First Citizens Asset Management, Inc. (&#8220;FCAM&#8221;), provide various investment products and services. As a registered broker/dealer, FCIS provides a full range of investment products, including annuities, discount brokerage services and third-party mutual funds. As registered investment advisors, FCIS and FCAM provide investment management services and advice. 

BancShares&#8217; subsidiaries deliver products and services to their customers through an extensive branch network as well as digital banking, telephone banking and various ATM networks. Services offered at most offices include the taking of deposits, the cashing of checks and providing for individual and commercial cash needs. Business customers may conduct banking transactions through the use of remote image technology. 

Statistical information regarding our business activities is found in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Business Combinations 

BancShares pursues growth through strategic acquisitions to enhance organizational value, strengthen its presence in existing markets, as well as expand its footprint in new markets. In 2020, BancShares completed the acquisition of Community Financial Holding Company, Inc. In 2019, BancShares completed the acquisitions of Entegra Financial Corp., First South Bancorp, Inc., and Biscayne Bancshares, Inc. 

On October 15, 2020, BancShares and CIT Group Inc., a Delaware corporation (&#8220;CIT&#8221;), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;) by and among BancShares, FCB, FC Merger Subsidiary IX, Inc., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of FCB (&#8220;Merger Sub&#8221;), and CIT, the parent company of CIT Bank, N.A., a national banking association (&#8220;CIT Bank&#8221;). Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into CIT, with CIT as the surviving entity (the &#8220;First-Step Merger&#8221;), and as soon as reasonably practicable following the effective time of the First-Step Merger, CIT will merge with and into FCB, with FCB as the surviving entity (together with the First-Step Merger, the &#8220;Mergers&#8221;). The Merger Agreement further provides that immediately following the consummation of the Mergers, CIT Bank will merge with and into FCB, with FCB as the surviving bank (together with the Mergers, the &#8220;Transaction&#8221;). On February 9, 2021, BancShares and CIT each held a special meeting of shareholders where they received the necessary shareholder approvals for the consummation of the Transaction from their respective shareholders. 

The Transaction will create a bank with over $100 billion in assets and combines management teams with extensive experience integrating acquired institutions. Additionally, the Transaction brings together complementary strengths with CIT&#8217;s national commercial lending franchise and our low-cost retail deposits and full suite of banking products. This also allows us to diversify our deposit strategy, combining our large branch network and CIT&#8217;s rapidly growing homeowner association business, direct bank and Southern California branches. The combined bank expects to be well-positioned to leverage its product portfolio and technology across the franchises and make additional investments in technology to enhance the customer experience and increase shareholder value. 

Additional information relating to business combinations is set forth in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the caption &#8220;Business Combinations,&#8221; and Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note B, Business Combinations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. BancShares&#8217; subsidiaries compete with national, regional and local financial services providers. In recent years, the ability of non-bank financial entities to provide services has intensified competition. Non-bank financial service providers are not subject to the same significant regulatory restrictions as traditional commercial banks. More than ever, customers have the ability to select from a variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits and customer convenience. 

FCB&#8217;s primary deposit markets are North Carolina and South Carolina, which represent approximately 50.8% and 22.6%, respectively, of total FCB deposits. FCB&#8217;s deposit market share in North Carolina and South Carolina was 4.2% and 9.1%, respectively, as of June 30, 2020, based on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) Deposit Market Share Report, which makes FCB the fourth largest bank in both North Carolina and South Carolina. The three banks larger than FCB based on deposits in North Carolina and South Carolina as of June 30, 2020 include Bank of America, Truist Bank and Wells Fargo. These banks collectively controlled 78.8% and 46.3% of North Carolina and South Carolina deposits, respectively as of June 30, 2020. 

Geographic Locations and Human Capital 

As of December 31, 2020, BancShares operated 542 branches in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and West Virginia. Following the planned merger with CIT, we will add approximately 90 branches, primarily located in Southern California, to our branch network. 

BancShares and its subsidiaries employ approximately 6,451 full-time staff and approximately 271 part-time staff for a total of 6,722 employees. Women and ethnically diverse associates make up approximately 68% and 27% of total employees, respectively, and our Executive Leadership Team includes two women. 

Our ability to attract, retain and develop associates who align with our purpose is key to our success. BancShares&#8217; human capital strategy is predicated on ensuring the organization has the right people with the right skills in the right places at the right time for the right cost to fulfill its mandate and strategic objectives. Our human resources team works to formalize the process of defining and deploying the mission-critical talent needed to align the Bank with the financial and strategic goals and objectives. Key human capital initiatives include scaling and developing talent, enhancing performance management and coaching, and accelerating inclusion, equity and diversity initiatives. The retention and integration of key CIT employees will be a significant initiative upon the expected completion of the merger. The Board monitors these initiatives and associated risks primarily through its Risk Committee. 

To assist with these goals, we monitor and evaluate various metrics, specifically around attraction, retention and development of talent. Our annual voluntary turnover is relatively low compared to the industry. We believe this reflects our strong corporate culture, competitive compensation and benefit structures and commitment to career development. 

Compensation and Benefits 

We strive to provide robust compensation and benefits to our employees. In addition to salaries, compensation and benefit programs include a 401(k) plan with employer matching opportunities, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off and other employee assistance programs. 

COVID-19 Pandemic 

The health and wellness of our employees is also critical to our success. In an effort to keep our employees safe during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented a number of new health-related measures, including protocols governing the use of face masks and hand sanitizer, a flexible work-from-home policy, enhanced cleaning procedures at our corporate and branch offices, social-distancing protocols and limitations on in-person meeting and other gatherings. 

Regulatory Considerations 

Various laws and regulations administered by regulatory agencies affect BancShares&#8217; and its subsidiaries&#8217; corporate practices, including the payment of dividends, the incurrence of debt, and the acquisition of financial institutions and other companies. They also affect business practices, such as the payment of interest on deposits, the charging of interest on loans, the types of business conducted and the location of offices. 

Numerous statutes and regulations also apply to and restrict the activities of BancShares and its subsidiaries, including limitations on the ability to pay dividends, capital requirements, reserve requirements, deposit insurance requirements and restrictions on transactions with related persons and entities controlled by related persons. The impact of these statutes and regulations is discussed below and in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Dodd-Frank Act . The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), enacted in 2010, significantly restructured the financial services regulatory environment; imposed significant regulatory and compliance changes; increased capital, leverage and liquidity requirements; and expanded the scope of oversight responsibility of certain federal agencies through the creation of new oversight bodies. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. 

Effective during 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;), while largely preserving the fundamental elements of the post-Dodd-Frank Act regulatory framework, modified certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act as they applied to regional and community banking organizations. Certain of the significant requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are listed below with information regarding how they apply to BancShares following the enactment of the EGRRCPA. 

&#8226; Capital Planning and Stress Testing. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated stress tests be developed and performed to ensure financial institutions have sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during multiple economic and bank scenarios. The EGRRCPA gave immediate relief from stress testing for applicable bank holding companies and therefore, BancShares is no longer required to submit company-run annual stress tests. Notwithstanding these amendments to the stress testing requirements, the federal banking agencies indicated, through inter-agency guidance, the capital planning and risk management practices of institutions with total assets less than $100 billion would continue to be reviewed through the regular supervisory process. BancShares will continue to monitor its capital consistent with the safety and soundness expectations of the federal regulators through the use of internal, customized stress testing in order to support the business and its capital planning process, as well as prudent risk mitigation. In preparation for crossing the $100 billion threshold following the expected closing of the merger with CIT, BancShares is reviewing the applicable regulatory guidance in order to ensure all requirements are met in a timely manner. 

&#8226; The Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule was promulgated to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. It prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The EGRRCPA exempted many financial institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion from the Volcker Rule, but it continues to apply to BancShares and its subsidiaries. However, the Volcker Rule does not significantly impact our operations as we do not have any significant engagement in the businesses it prohibits. 

&#8226; Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule . Creditors are required to comply with mortgage reform provisions prohibiting the origination of any residential mortgages that do not meet rigorous Qualified Mortgage standards or Ability-to-Repay standards. All mortgage loans originated by FCB meet Ability-to-Repay standards and a substantial majority also meet Qualified Mortgage standards. The EGRRCPA impact on the original Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage standards is only applicable to banks with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. 

BancShares 

General. As a financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;) of 1956, as amended, BancShares is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve Board (&#8220;Federal Reserve,&#8221; or &#8220;FRB&#8221;). BancShares is also registered under the bank holding company laws of North Carolina and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks (&#8220;NCCOB&#8221;). 

Permitted Activities . A bank holding company is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities the Federal Reserve determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies, such as BancShares, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve), without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Activities financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, serving as an insurance agent and underwriter and engaging in merchant banking. 

Acquisitions. A bank holding company (&#8220;BHC&#8221;) must obtain approval from the Federal Reserve prior to directly or indirectly acquiring ownership or control of 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of another BHC or bank or prior to merging or consolidating with another BHC. 

Status Requirements. To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be well-capitalized and well-managed. A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be well-capitalized if it satisfies the requirements for this status under applicable Federal Reserve capital requirements. A depository institution subsidiary is considered well managed if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination. If a financial holding company ceases to meet these capital and management requirements, the Federal Reserve may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities. 

Capital Requirements . The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on bank holding companies under the BHCA, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of &#8220;qualifying&#8221; capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under &#8220;Subsidiary Bank - FCB.&#8221; As of December 31, 2020, the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, common equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios of BancShares were 10.61%, 13.81%, 11.63% and 7.86%, respectively, and each capital ratio listed above exceeded the applicable minimum requirements as well as the well-capitalized standards. Subject to its capital requirements and certain other restrictions, BancShares is able to borrow money to make capital contributions to FCB and such loans may be repaid from dividends paid by FCB to BancShares. 

Source of Strength . Under the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, BancShares is expected to commit resources to support FCB, including times when BancShares may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans made by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness . The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments . BancShares is a legal entity, separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Revenues of BancShares primarily result from dividends received from FCB. There are various legal limitations applicable to the payment of dividends by FCB to BancShares and to the payment of dividends by BancShares to its shareholders. The payment of dividends by FCB or BancShares may be limited by certain factors, such as requirements to maintain capital above regulatory guidelines. Bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit FCB or BancShares from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of FCB or BancShares, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, insured depository institutions, such as FCB, are prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distributions, the institution would become &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; as such term is used in the statute. Additionally, under Basel III capital requirements, banking institutions with a ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Based on FCB&#8217;s current 

financial condition, BancShares currently does not expect these provisions to have any material impact on its ability to receive dividends from FCB. BancShares&#8217; non-bank subsidiaries pay dividends to BancShares periodically on a non-regulated basis. 

Subsidiary Bank - FCB 

General. FCB is a state-chartered bank, subject to supervision and examination by, and the regulations and reporting requirements of, the FDIC and the NCCOB. Deposit obligations are insured by the FDIC to the maximum legal limits. 

Capital Requirements. Bank regulatory agencies approved Basel III regulatory capital guidelines aimed at strengthening existing capital requirements through a combination of higher minimum capital requirements, new capital conservation buffers and more conservative definitions of capital and balance sheet exposure. BancShares and FCB implemented the requirements of Basel III effective January 1, 2015, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the rule. The table below describes the minimum and well-capitalized requirements and conservation buffer. 

##TABLE_START Basel III minimum requirement Basel III conservation buffer Basel III well-capitalized Total risk-based capital ratio 8.00% 2.50% 10.00% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 6.00 2.50 8.00 Common equity Tier 1 4.50 2.50 6.50 Tier 1 leverage ratio 4.00 N/A 5.00 ##TABLE_END

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with ratios above the minimum, but below the conservation buffer, will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

Failure to meet minimum capital requirements may result in certain actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on FCB&#8217;s consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2020, FCB exceeded the applicable minimum requirements as well as the well-capitalized standards. 

Although FCB is unable to control the external factors influencing its business, by maintaining high levels of balance sheet liquidity, prudently managing interest rate exposures, ensuring capital positions remain strong and actively monitoring asset quality, FCB seeks to minimize the potentially adverse risks of unforeseen and unfavorable economic trends and to take advantage of favorable economic conditions and opportunities when appropriate. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, Regulation W and Regulation O, the authority of FCB to engage in transactions with related parties or &#8220;affiliates&#8221; or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between FCB and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to FCB, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, FCB generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

FCB receives management fees from its subsidiaries and BancShares for expenses incurred for performing various functions on their behalf. These fees are charged to each company based upon the estimated cost for usage of services by that company. The fees are eliminated from the consolidated financial statements. 

Community Reinvestment Act . FCB is subject to the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;). The CRA imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of the local communities, including low-and-moderate-income neighborhoods. If FCB receives a rating from the Federal Reserve of less than &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; under the CRA, restrictions would be imposed on our operating activities. In addition, in order for a financial holding company, like BancShares, to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA. FCB currently has a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the United States Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Asset Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) Regulation . Governmental policy in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (&#8220;BSA&#8221;) and subsequent laws and regulations require financial institutions to take steps to prevent the use of their systems to facilitate the flow of illegal or illicit money or terrorist funds. The USA Patriot Act of 2001 (&#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;) significantly expanded anti-money laundering (&#8220;AML&#8221;) and financial transparency laws and regulations by imposing new compliance and due diligence obligations, including standards for verifying customer identification at account opening and 

maintaining expanded records, as well as rules promoting cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying persons who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. These rules were expanded to require new customer due diligence and beneficial ownership requirements in 2018. An institution subject to the BSA, such as FCB, must additionally provide AML training to employees, designate an AML compliance officer and annually audit the AML program to assess its effectiveness. The United States has imposed economic sanctions on transactions with certain designated foreign countries, nationals and others. As these rules are administrated by OFAC, these are generally known as the OFAC rules. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate BSA, AML and OFAC programs, or to comply with all the relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences, including material fines and sanctions. FCB has implemented a program designed to facilitate compliance with the full extent of the applicable BSA and OFAC related laws, regulations and related sanctions. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations . FCB is also subject to certain laws and regulations designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The laws and related regulations mandate certain disclosures and regulate the manner in which financial institutions transact business with certain customers. FCB must comply with these consumer protection laws and regulations in its relevant lines of business. 

Available Information 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

BancShares does not have its own separate Internet website. However, FCB&#8217;s website ( www.firstcitizens.com ) includes a hyperlink to the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) website where the public may obtain copies of BancShares&#8217; annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Interested parties may also directly access the SEC&#8217;s website ( www.sec.gov ), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information electronically filed by BancShares. 

