RISK FACTORS

The following discussion presents what management currently 
believes could be the material risks and uncertainties that 
could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including 
those not currently known to Citi or its management, could 
also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations 
and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and 
uncertainties that Citi may face. For additional information 
about risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi, see 
“Executive Summary” and each respective business’ results of 
operations above and “Managing Global Risk” below. The 
following risk factors are categorized to improve the 
readability and usefulness of the risk factor disclosure, and, 
while the headings and risk factors generally align with Citi’s 
risk categorization, in certain instances the risk factors may 
not directly correspond with how Citi categorizes or manages 
its risks.

MARKET-RELATED RISKS

Macroeconomic, Geopolitical and Other Challenges and 
Uncertainties Could Continue to Have a Negative Impact on 
Citi.
Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, 
negative impacts to its businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition as a result of various macroeconomic, 
geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatility. 
These include, among other things, significantly elevated 
levels of inflation, higher interest rates, global supply shocks 
and lower economic growth rates, as well as an increasing risk 
of recession in Europe, the U.S. and other countries.

For example, in 2022, the U.S., the U.K., the EU and 
other economies experienced significantly higher levels of 
widespread inflation. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board 
(FRB) and other central banks have substantially raised 
interest rates, reduced the size of their balance sheets and 
taken other actions in an aggressive effort to curb inflation. 
These actions are expected to slow economic growth, increase 
the risk of recession and increase the unemployment rate in the 
U.S. and other countries, all of which would likely adversely 
affect Citi’s consumer and institutional clients, businesses and 
results of operations. Elevated levels of inflation are also 
expected to continue to result in higher labor and other costs, 
thus putting further pressure on Citi’s expenses.

Interest rates on loans Citi makes are typically based off 

or set at a spread over a benchmark interest rate and would 
likely decline or rise as benchmark rates decline or rise, 
respectively. While Citi expects its overall net interest income 
would generally increase due to higher interest rates, higher 
rates could adversely affect its funding costs, levels of deposits 
in its consumer and institutional businesses and certain 
business or product revenues. Citi’s net interest income could 
be adversely affected due to a flattening (a lower spread 
between shorter-term versus longer-term interest rates) or 
longer lasting or more severe inversion (shorter-term interest 
rates exceeding longer-term interest rates) of the interest rate 
yield curve, as Citi, similar to other banks, typically pays 

41

interest on deposits based on shorter-term interest rates and 
earns money on loans based on longer-term interest rates. For 
additional information on Citi’s interest rate risk, see 
“Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Banking Book 
Interest Rate Risk” below. Additionally, Citi’s balance sheet 
includes interest-rate sensitive fixed-rate assets such as U.S. 
Treasuries, U.S. agency securities and residential mortgages, 
among others, whose valuation would be adversely impacted 
in a rising-rate environment and/or whose hedging costs may 
increase. 

Russia’s war in Ukraine has caused supply shocks in 

energy, food and other commodities markets, worsened 
inflation, increased cybersecurity risks, increased the risk of 
recession in Europe and heightened geopolitical tensions. 
Actions by Russia, and any further measures taken by the U.S. 
or its allies, could continue to have negative impacts on 
regional and global energy and other commodities and 
financial markets and macroeconomic conditions, adversely 
impacting jurisdictions where Citi operates and Citi’s 
customers, clients and employees. Citi’s ability to continue to 
reduce its operations and exposure in Russia, including 
completion of the wind-down of its consumer and local 
commercial banking operations and nearly all of its 
institutional banking services in the country, may be 
negatively impacted by macroeconomic challenges and 
uncertainties, local market conditions, and sanctions and other 
governmental regulations or actions. 

Moreover, Citi’s remaining operations in Russia subject 
Citi to various other risks, among which are foreign currency 
volatility, including appreciations or devaluations; restrictions 
arising from retaliatory Russian laws and regulations on the 
conduct of its business, including, without limitation, its 
provision to its customers of certain securities services; 
sanctions or asset freezes; and other deconsolidation events. 
Examples of triggers that may result in deconsolidation of 
Citi’s subsidiary bank in Russia, AO Citibank, include 
voluntary or forced sale of ownership or loss of control due to 
actions of relevant governmental authorities, including 
expropriation (i.e., the entity becomes subject to the complete 
control of a government, court, administrator, trustee or 
regulator); revocation of banking license; and loss of ability to 
elect a board of directors or appoint members of senior 
management. In the event of a loss of control of AO Citibank, 
Citi would be required to write off its net investment in the 
entity, recognize a CTA loss through earnings and recognize a 
loss on intercompany liabilities owed by AO Citibank to other 
Citi entities outside of Russia. In the sole event of a substantial 
liquidation, as opposed to a loss of control, Citi would be 
required to recognize the CTA loss through earnings and 
would evaluate its remaining net investment as circumstances 
evolve. Additionally, Citi may incur reputational harm if its 
actions are perceived to be misaligned with Citi’s announced 
reductions of its operations and exposure in Russia. For 
additional information about these risks, see the operational 
processes and systems, cybersecurity and emerging markets 
risk factors and “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—
Country Risk—Russia” below.

COVID-19 is expected to continue to adversely affect 
global health and could negatively impact macroeconomic 
conditions in 2023. The extent of the impact remains uncertain 

and will largely depend on future developments in China, the 
U.S. and other countries, such as the severity and duration of 
the public health consequences, including the course of 
variants; the public response; and government actions. 
COVID-19 could again disrupt supply chains, worsen inflation 
and reduce economic activity. These factors could adversely 
impact Citi’s businesses and results of operations and financial 
condition.

Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, 

economic and geopolitical challenges related to China, 
including related policy actions, distress in Chinese real estate 
finance and other credit markets, tensions or conflicts between 
China and Taiwan and/or between China and the U.S.; 
significant disruptions and volatility in financial markets, 
including foreign currency volatility and devaluations and 
continued strength in the U.S. dollar; other geopolitical 
tensions and conflicts; protracted or widespread trade tensions; 
financial market, other economic and political disruption 
driven by populist movements and governments; natural 
disasters; other pandemics; and election outcomes, including 
the effects of divided government in the U.S., such as with 
respect to raising of the federal debt limit. For example, Citi’s 
market-making businesses can suffer losses resulting from the 
widening of credit spreads due to unanticipated changes in 
financial markets. Moreover, adverse developments or 
downturns in one or more of the world’s larger economies 
would likely have a significant impact on the global economy 
or the economies of other countries because of global financial 
and economic linkages.

STRATEGIC RISKS

Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders 
Substantially Depends on Regulatory Capital Requirements, 
Including the Results of the CCAR Process and Dodd-Frank 
Act Regulatory Stress Tests.
Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders 
consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether 
through its common stock dividend or through a share 
repurchase program, substantially depends, among other 
things, on regulatory capital requirements, including the 
annual recalibration of the Stress Capital Buffer (SCB), which 
is based upon the results of the CCAR process required by the 
FRB, and recalibration of the GSIB surcharge. 

Citi’s ability to return capital also depends on its results of 

operations and financial condition, including the capital 
impact related to its remaining divestitures, such as, among 
other things, any temporary capital impact from CTA losses 
(net of hedges) between transaction signings and closings and 
achievement of the expected capital benefits from the 
divestitures (for additional information, see “Executive 
Summary” above and the continued investments risk factor 
below); Citi’s effectiveness in planning, managing and 
calculating its level of risk-weighted assets under both the 
Advanced Approaches and the Standardized Approach, 
Supplementary Leverage ratio (SLR) and GSIB surcharge; its 
implementation and maintenance of an effective capital 
planning process and management framework; forecasts of 
macroeconomic conditions; and deferred tax asset (DTA) 
utilization (see the ability to utilize DTA risk factor below).

42

Changes in regulatory capital rules, requirements or 
interpretations could continue to have a material impact on 
Citi’s regulatory capital. For example, on October 1, 2022, 
Citi’s required regulatory CET1 Capital ratio increased to 
11.5% from 10.5% due to an increase in the SCB requirement 
(see below for information on calculation of the SCB). In 
addition, on January 1, 2023, Citi’s required regulatory CET1 
Capital ratio further increased to 12% from 11.5% under the 
Standardized Approach, as the current GSIB surcharge 
increased to 3.5% from 3.0%. Due to these increases as well as 
macroeconomic uncertainty, Citi paused common share 
repurchases beginning as of the third quarter of 2022. In 
addition, the U.S. banking agencies are considering a number 
of changes to the U.S. regulatory capital framework in the 
future, including, but not limited to, revisions to the U.S. Basel 
III rules, and potential changes to the GSIB surcharge, SLR 
and discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer. All of these 
potential changes could negatively impact Citi’s regulatory 
capital position or increase Citi’s regulatory capital 
requirements.

All firms subject to CCAR requirements, including Citi, 
will continue to be subject to a rigorous regulatory evaluation 
of capital planning practices, including, but not limited to, 
governance, risk management, data quality and internal 
controls. Citi’s ability to return capital may be adversely 
impacted if such an evaluation of Citi results in negative 
findings. The FRB has stated that it expects capital adequacy 
practices to continue to evolve and to likely be determined by 
its yearly cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. 
Similarly, the FRB has indicated that, as part of its stated goal 
to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, 
several parameters of the annual stress testing process may 
continue to be altered, including the severity of the stress test 
scenario, the FRB modeling of Citi’s balance sheet, pre-
provision net revenue and stress losses, and the addition of 
components deemed important by the FRB. For information 
on limitations on Citi’s ability to return capital to common 
shareholders, as well as the CCAR process, supervisory stress 
test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see “Capital Resources
—Overview” and “Capital Resources—Stress Testing 
Component of Capital Planning” above and the risk 
management risk factor below.

Beginning January 1, 2022, Citi was required to phase 

into regulatory capital, at 25% per year, the changes in 
retained earnings, DTAs and ACL determined upon the 
January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date, as well as subsequent 
changes in the ACL through December 31, 2021. The FRB 
has stated that it plans to maintain its current framework for 
calculating allowances on loans in the supervisory stress test 
through the 2023 supervisory stress test cycle, while 
continuing to evaluate appropriate future enhancements to this 
framework. The impacts on Citi’s capital adequacy of the 
FRB’s incorporation of CECL into its supervisory stress tests 
on an ongoing basis, and of other potential regulatory changes 
in the FRB’s stress testing methodologies, remain unclear. For 
additional information regarding the CECL methodology, 
including the transition provisions related to the adverse 
regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL 
methodology, see “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory 
Capital Standards—Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified 

Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses 
Methodology” above and Note 1.

In addition, the annual stress testing requirements are 
integrated into ongoing regulatory capital requirements. Citi’s 
SCB equals the maximum decline in its CET1 Capital ratio 
under the supervisory severely adverse scenario over a nine-
quarter CCAR measurement period, plus four quarters of 
planned common stock dividends, subject to a minimum 
requirement of 2.5%. The SCB is calculated by the FRB using 
its proprietary data and modeling of each firm’s results. 
Accordingly, Citi’s SCB may change annually, based on the 
supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in 
additional volatility in the calculation of Citi’s required 
regulatory CET1 Capital ratio under the Standardized 
Approach. Similar to the other regulatory capital buffers, a 
breach of the SCB may result in graduated limitations on 
capital distributions. For additional information on the SCB, 
see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Buffers” above.
Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent 
of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the 
FRB’s regulatory capital, stress testing and CCAR regimes, 
these changes could increase the level of capital Citi is 
required or elects to hold, including as part of Citi’s 
management buffer, thus potentially impacting the extent to 
which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.

Citi Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully 
Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Legislative Uncertainties 
and Changes in the U.S. and Globally.
Citi, its management and its businesses continue to face 
ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes, 
both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing 
regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes facing Citi 
are too numerous to list completely, examples include, but are 
not limited to (i) potential fiscal, monetary, tax, sanctions and 
other changes promulgated by the U.S. federal government 
and other governments, including as a result of priority shifts 
depending on individuals, political parties and other groups in 
governmental positions; (ii) potential changes to various 
aspects of the regulatory capital framework and requirements 
applicable to Citi, including the Basel III rules (see the capital 
return risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital 
Standards Developments” above); and (iii) rapidly evolving 
legislative and regulatory requirements and other government 
initiatives in the U.S. and globally related to climate change 
and other ESG areas that vary, and may conflict, across 
jurisdictions, including any new disclosure requirements (see 
the climate change risk factor below). References to 
“regulatory” refer to both formal regulation and the views and 
expectations of Citi’s regulators in their supervisory roles.

For example, in February 2023, the Consumer Financial 

Protection Bureau proposed significant changes to the 
maximum amounts on credit card late fees, which, if adopted 
as proposed, would reduce credit card fee revenues in Branded 
cards and Retail services in PBWM. In addition, U.S. and 
international regulatory and legislative initiatives have not 
always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated 
basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to 
develop with respect to their scope, interpretation, timing, 
structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even 

43

conflicting requirements, including within a single 
jurisdiction. For example, in 2019, the European Commission 
adopted, as part of Capital Requirements Directive V (CRD 
V), a new requirement for major banking groups 
headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to 
establish an intermediate EU holding company where the 
foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly meaning 
banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established 
in the EU. While in some respects the requirement mirrors an 
existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations 
to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, the 
implementation of the EU holding company requirement could 
lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution 
planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in 
various jurisdictions.

Further, ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties 

and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term 
business, balance sheet and strategic budget planning difficult, 
subject to change and potentially more costly and may impact 
its results of operations. U.S. and other regulators globally 
have implemented and continue to discuss various changes to 
certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing 
assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its 
businesses and business planning. For example, while the 
Basel III regulatory reforms and revised market risk 
framework have been finalized at the international level, there 
remain significant uncertainties with respect to the integration 
of these revisions into the U.S. regulatory capital framework. 
Business planning is required to be based on possible or 
proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically 
upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive 
guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and 
such guidance can change. Regulatory and legislative changes 
have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and 
costs (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory 
changes risk factor below) and can adversely affect Citi’s 
businesses, results of operations and financial condition.

Citi’s Continued Investment and Other Initiatives as Part of 
Its Transformation and Strategic Refresh May Not Be as 
Successful as It Projects or Expects.
As part of its transformation and other strategic initiatives, Citi 
continues to make significant investments to improve its risk 
and control environment, modernize its data and technology 
infrastructure and further enhance safety and soundness (for 
additional information on these investments, see “Executive 
Summary” above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk 
factor below). Citi also continues to make business-led 
investments, as part of the execution of its strategic refresh. 
For example, Citi has been making investments across the 
Company, including, for example, hiring front office 
colleagues and enhancing product capabilities and platforms to 
improve client digital experiences and add scalability and 
implementing new capabilities and partnerships. Citi has also 
been pursuing productivity improvements through various 
technology and digital initiatives, organizational simplification 
and location strategies. 

Citi’s multiyear transformation initiatives involve 
significant execution complexity, and there is inherent risk 
that these will not be as productive or effective as Citi expects, 

or at all. Conversely, failure to properly invest in and upgrade 
Citi’s technology and processes could result in Citi’s inability 
to meet regulatory expectations, be sufficiently competitive, 
serve clients effectively and avoid operational errors (for 
additional information, see the operational processes and 
systems and legal and regulatory proceedings risk factors 
below). Moreover, Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns on 
its investments and productivity improvements depends, in 
part, on factors that it cannot control, including, among others, 
macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties; customer, client 
and competitor actions; and ongoing regulatory requirements 
or changes.

Citi’s strategic refresh also includes the divestiture of its 

remaining consumer banking businesses in Legacy 
Franchises, including Mexico Consumer/SBMM, in order to 
simplify the Company and enhance its allocation of resources. 
These divestitures involve significant uncertainty and 
execution complexity, and may result in additional CTA or 
other losses, charges or other negative financial or strategic 
impacts, which could be material (for information about risks 
related to Citi’s operations in Russia, see the macroeconomic 
challenges and uncertainties risk factor above and “Managing 
Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Russia” below). 
For additional information about CTA losses, see “Executive 
Summary” and the capital return risk factor above and the 
incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor below.

Citi’s investment and other initiatives may continue to 
evolve as its business strategies, the market environment and 
regulatory expectations change, which could make the 
initiatives more costly and more challenging to implement, 
and limit their effectiveness. 

Climate Change Presents Various Financial and Non-
Financial Risks to Citi and its Customers and Clients.
Climate change presents both immediate and long-term risks 
to Citi and its customers and clients, with the risks expected to 
increase over time. Climate risks can arise from both physical 
risks (those risks related to the physical effects of climate 
change) and transition risks (risks related to regulatory, 
market, technological, stakeholder and legal changes from a 
transition to a low-carbon economy). Physical and transition 
risks can manifest themselves differently across Citi’s risk 
categories in the short, medium and long terms. Physical risks 
from climate change include acute risks, such as hurricanes 
and floods, as well as consequences of chronic changes in 
climate, such as rising sea levels, prolonged droughts and 
systemic changes to geographies and any resulting population 
migration. Such physical risks could have adverse financial, 
operational and other impacts on Citi, both directly on its 
business and operations, and indirectly as a result of impacts 
to Citi’s clients, customers, vendors and other counterparties. 
These impacts can include destruction, damage or impairment 
of properties and other assets, disruptions to business 
operations and supply chains and reduced availability or 
increase in the cost of insurance. Physical risks can also 
impact Citi’s credit risk exposures, for example, in its 
mortgage and commercial real estate lending businesses.

Transition risks may arise from changes in regulations or 

market preferences toward low-carbon industries or sectors, 
which in turn could have negative impacts on asset values, 

44

results of operations or the reputations of Citi and its 
customers and clients. For example, Citi’s corporate credit 
exposures include oil and gas, power and other industries that 
may experience reduced demand for carbon-intensive products 
due to the transition to a low-carbon economy. Failure to 
adequately consider transition risk in developing and 
executing on its business strategy could lead to a loss of 
market share, lower revenues and higher credit costs. 

Additionally, if Citi’s response to climate change is 
perceived to be ineffective or insufficient or Citi is unable to 
achieve its objectives or commitments relating to climate 
change, its businesses, reputation, attractiveness to certain 
investors and efforts to recruit and retain employees may 
suffer. For example, the need to decarbonize in a gradual and 
orderly way, while promoting energy security, may lead to 
continued exposure to carbon-intensive activity that in turn 
may raise such reputational risks. 

Even as some regulators seek to mandate additional 
disclosure of climate-related information, Citi’s ability to 
comply with such requirements and conduct more robust 
climate-related risk analyses may be hampered by lack of 
information and reliable data. Data on climate-related risks is 
limited in availability, often based on estimated or unverified 
figures, collected and reported on a lag, and variable in 
quality. Modeling capabilities to analyze climate-related risks 
and interconnections are improving, but remain incomplete. 
Moreover, U.S. and non-U.S. banking regulators and others 
are increasingly focusing on the issue of climate risk at 
financial institutions, both directly and with respect to their 
clients. For example, in December 2022, the FRB requested 
comment on draft principles that would provide a high-level 
framework for the safe and sound management of exposures to 
climate-related financial risks for FRB-supervised financial 
institutions with more than $100 billion in assets.

Legislative and regulatory changes and uncertainties 
regarding climate-related risk management and disclosures are 
likely to result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit, 
reputational and other risks and costs for Citi (for additional 
information, see the ongoing regulatory and legislative 
uncertainties and changes risk factor above). In addition, Citi 
could face increased regulatory, reputational and legal scrutiny 
as a result of its climate risk, sustainability and other ESG-
related commitments and disclosures. Citi also faces 
potentially conflicting anti-ESG initiatives from certain U.S. 
state governments that may impact its ability to conduct 
certain business within those jurisdictions, as well as from 
Congress. 

For information on Citi’s climate and other sustainability 
initiatives, see “Sustainability and Other ESG Matters” below. 
For additional information on Citi’s management of climate 
risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risks—Climate 
Risk” below.

Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the 
Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, 
Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable 
Income.
At December 31, 2022, Citi’s net DTAs were $27.7 billion, 
net of a valuation allowance of $2.4 billion, of which $10.9 
billion was deducted from Citi’s CET1 Capital under the U.S. 

Basel III rules, primarily relating to net operating losses, 
foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards. 
Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2022, $1.9 billion related to 
foreign tax credit (FTC) carry-forwards, net of a valuation 
allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 
years and represents the most time-sensitive component of 
Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at December 31, 2022 
expire over the period of 2025–2029. Citi must utilize any 
FTCs generated in the then-current-year tax return prior to 
utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.

The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, 

including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment 
and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the 
jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax 
planning strategies. Forecasts of future taxable earnings will 
depend upon various factors, including, among others, 
macroeconomic conditions. In addition, any future increase in 
U.S. corporate tax rates could result in an increase in Citi’s 
DTA, which may subject more of Citi’s existing DTA to 
exclusion from regulatory capital while improving Citi’s 
ability to utilize its FTC carry-forwards. 

Citi’s overall ability to realize its DTAs will primarily be 
dependent upon its ability to generate U.S. taxable income in 
the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Although utilization of 
FTCs in any year is generally limited to 21% of foreign source 
taxable income in that year, overall domestic losses (ODL) 
that Citi has incurred in the past allow it to reclassify domestic 
source income as foreign source. Failure to realize any portion 
of the net DTAs would have a corresponding negative impact 
on Citi’s net income and financial returns. Citi has not been 
and does not expect to be subject to the Base Erosion Anti-
Abuse Tax (BEAT), which, if applicable to Citi in any given 
year, would have a significantly adverse effect on both Citi’s 
net income and regulatory capital. For additional information 
on Citi’s DTAs, including FTCs, see “Significant Accounting 
Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and 
Notes 1 and 9.

Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax 
Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of 
Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in Litigation 
or Examinations and the Payment of Additional Taxes, 
Penalties or Interest.
Citi is subject to various income-based tax laws of the U.S. 
and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-
U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are 
inherently complex, and Citi must make judgments and 
interpretations about the application of these laws to its 
entities, operations and businesses. 

For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation 

and Development (OECD) Pillar 2 initiative contemplates a 
15% global minimum tax with respect to earnings in each 
separate country. EU member states are required to adopt the 
OECD Pillar 2 rules in 2023, and other non-U.S. countries are 
expected to follow suit. Under these rules, Citi will be required 
to pay a “top-up” tax to the extent that Citi’s effective tax rate 
in any given country is below 15%. The U.S. is not expected 
to pass Pillar 2 legislation in the near term, but the top-up tax 
can be collected by other countries. While many aspects of the 

45

application of the rules remain uncertain, Citi does not expect 
a material effect to its earnings.

In addition, Citi is subject to litigation or examinations 

with U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding non-income-
based tax matters. While Citi has appropriately reserved for 
such matters where there is a probable loss, and has disclosed, 
as reasonably possible, matters that are more-likely-than-not, 
the outcome from the matters may be different than Citi’s 
expectations. Citi’s interpretations or application of the tax 
laws, including with respect to withholding, stamp, service 
and other non-income taxes, could differ from that of the 
relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in 
the requirement to pay additional taxes, penalties or interest, 
which could be material. See Note 29 for additional 
information on litigation and examinations involving non-U.S. 
tax authorities.

A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co-
Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships Could 
Have a Negative Impact on Citi.
Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its 
Branded cards and Retail services credit card businesses with 
various retailers and merchants, whereby in the ordinary 
course of business Citi issues credit cards to customers of the 
retailers or merchants. The five largest relationships across 
both businesses in U.S. Personal Banking constituted an 
aggregate of approximately 10% of Citi’s revenues in 2022 
(for additional information, see “Personal Banking and Wealth 
Management” above). Citi’s co-branding and private label 
agreements often provide for shared economics between the 
parties and generally have a fixed term.

Competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these 

relationships is significant, and Citi may not be able to 
maintain such relationships on existing terms or at all. Citi’s 
co-branding and private label relationships could also be 
negatively impacted by, among other things, the general 
economic environment, including the impacts of significantly 
elevated levels of inflation, higher interest rates, global supply 
shocks and lower economic growth rates, as well as an 
increasing risk of recession; changes in consumer sentiment, 
spending patterns and credit card usage behaviors; a decline in 
sales and revenues, partner store closures, any reduction in air 
and business travel, or other operational difficulties of the 
retailer or merchant; early termination due to a contractual 
breach or exercise of other early termination right; or other 
factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, 
consolidations or other similar events, whether due to the 
challenging macroeconomic environment or otherwise.
These events, particularly early termination and 
bankruptcies or liquidations, could negatively impact the 
results of operations or financial condition of Branded cards, 
Retail services or Citi as a whole, including as a result of loss 
of revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, 
impairment of purchased credit card relationships and 
contract-related intangibles or other losses (see Note 16 for 
information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally).

Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to 
Address Any Shortcomings or Deficiencies or Guidance 
Provided Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, 
Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its 
Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually 
Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations.
Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and 
submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly 
resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its 
significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 
the event of future material financial distress or failure. On 
November 22, 2022, the FRB and FDIC issued feedback on 
the resolution plans filed on July 1, 2021 by the eight U.S. 
GSIBs, including Citi. The FRB and FDIC identified one 
shortcoming, but no deficiencies, in Citi’s 2021 resolution 
plan. The shortcoming related to data integrity and data quality 
management issues, specifically, weaknesses in Citi’s 
processes and practices for producing certain data that could 
materially impact its resolution capabilities. If a shortcoming 
is not satisfactorily explained or addressed before, or in, the 
submission of the next resolution plan, the shortcoming may 
be found to be a deficiency in the next resolution plan. For 
additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, 
see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine 

that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although 
not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do 
not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow Citi 
to be resolved in a way that protects systemically important 
functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not 
facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan 
that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be 
subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity 
requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or 
operations. If within two years from the imposition of any 
such requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated 
any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be 
required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such 
restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s 
reputation, market and investor perception, operations and 
strategy.

Citi’s Performance and Its Ability to Effectively Execute Its 
Transformation and Other Strategic Initiatives Could Be 
Negatively Impacted if It Is Not Able to Compete for, Retain 
and Motivate Highly Qualified Colleagues.
Recent employment conditions and inflationary pressures have 
made the competition to hire and retain qualified employees 
significantly more challenging and costly. Citi’s performance 
and the performance of its individual businesses largely 
depend on the talents and efforts of its diverse and highly 
qualified colleagues. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to 
compete in each of its lines of business, to manage its 
businesses effectively and to execute its transformation and 
other strategic initiatives, including, for example, hiring front 
office colleagues to grow businesses or hiring colleagues to 
support transformation of its risk, controls, data and finance 
infrastructure and compliance, depends on its ability to attract 
new colleagues and to retain and motivate its existing 

46

colleagues. If Citi is unable to continue to attract, retain and 
motivate the most highly qualified colleagues, Citi’s 
performance, including its competitive position, the execution 
of its transformation and other strategic initiatives and its 
results of operations could be negatively impacted.

Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues 
depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its 
control. For example, the competition for talent recently has 
been particularly intense, and attrition rates have risen due to 
factors such as low unemployment, a strong job market with a 
large number of open positions, and changes in worker’s 
expectations, concerns and preferences, in part due to the 
pandemic, including an increased demand for remote work 
options and other job flexibility. Also, the banking industry 
generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation of 
employee compensation than other industries, including 
deferral and clawback requirements for incentive 
compensation, which can make it unusually challenging for 
Citi to compete in labor markets against businesses, including 
for example technology companies, that are not subject to such 
regulation. Other factors that could impact its ability to attract, 
retain and motivate colleagues include, among other things, 
Citi’s presence in a particular market or region, the 
professional and development opportunities and employee 
benefits it offers, its reputation and its diversity. For 
information on Citi’s colleagues and workforce management, 
see “Human Capital Resources and Management” below.

Citi Faces Increased Competitive Challenges, Including 
from Financial Services and Other Companies and 
Emerging Technologies.
Citi operates in an increasingly evolving and competitive 
business environment, which includes both financial and non-
financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online 
banks, financial technology companies and others. These 
companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, size, 
reach, quality and type of products and services offered, price, 
technology and reputation. Certain competitors may be subject 
to different and, in some cases, less stringent legal and 
regulatory requirements, whether due to size, jurisdiction, 
entity type or other factors, placing Citi at a competitive 
disadvantage. 

For example, Citi competes with other financial services 
companies in the U.S. and globally that continue to develop 
and introduce new products and services. In recent years, non-
traditional financial services firms, such as financial 
technology companies, have begun to offer services 
traditionally provided by financial institutions, such as Citi, 
and have sought bank charters to provide these services. These 
firms attempt to use technology and mobile platforms to 
enhance the ability of companies and individuals to borrow, 
save and invest money. Emerging technologies have the 
potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption in 
the financial services industry. For example, despite recent 
turmoil in the digital asset market, there is sustained interest 
from clients and investors in digital assets. Financial services 
firms and other market participants have begun to offer 
services related to those assets. However, Citi may not be able 
to provide the same or similar services for legal or regulatory 
reasons and due to increased compliance and other risks. In 

addition, changes in the payments space (e.g., instant and 24x7 
payments) are accelerating, and, as a result, certain of Citi’s 
products and services could become less competitive.

Increased competition and emerging technologies have 
required and could require Citi to change or adapt its products 
and services to attract and retain customers or clients or to 
compete more effectively with competitors, including new 
market entrants. Simultaneously, as Citi develops new 
products and services leveraging emerging technologies, new 
risks may emerge that, if not designed and governed 
adequately, may result in control gaps and in Citi operating 
outside of its risk appetite. For example, instant and 24x7 
payments products could be accompanied by challenges to 
forecasting and managing liquidity, as well as increased 
operational and compliance risks.

Moreover, Citi relies on third parties to support certain of 

its product and service offerings, which may put Citi at a 
disadvantage to competitors who may directly offer a broader 
array of products and services. Also, Citi’s businesses, results 
of operations and reputation may suffer if any third party is 
unable to provide adequate support for such product and 
service offerings, whether due to operational incidents or 
otherwise (for additional information, see the operational 
processes and systems, cybersecurity and emerging markets 
risk factors below).

To the extent that Citi is not able to compete effectively 

with financial technology companies and other firms, Citi 
could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could 
result in loss of customers and market share, and its 
businesses, results of operations and financial condition could 
suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see 
the co-brand and private label cards and qualified colleagues 
risk factors above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—
Competition” below.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

A Failure or Disruption of Citi’s Operational Processes or 
Systems Could Negatively Impact Its Reputation, Customers, 
Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial 
Condition.
Citi’s global operations rely heavily on its technology, 
including the accurate, timely and secure processing, 
management, storage and transmission of confidential 
transactions, data and other information as well as the 
monitoring of a substantial amount of data and complex 
transactions in real time. Citi obtains and stores an extensive 
amount of personal and client-specific information for its 
consumer and institutional customers and clients, and must 
accurately record and reflect their extensive account 
transactions. Citi’s operations must also comply with complex 
and evolving laws and regulations in the countries in which it 
operates. With the evolving proliferation of new technologies 
and the increasing use of the internet, mobile devices and 
cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions and 
customers’ and clients’ increasing use of online banking and 
trading systems and other platforms, large global financial 
institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, 
subject to an ever-increasing risk of operational loss, failure or 
disruption, including as a result of cyber or information 

47

security incidents (for additional information, see the 
cybersecurity risk factor below).

Although Citi has continued to upgrade its technology, 

including systems to automate processes and enhance 
efficiencies, operational incidents are unpredictable and can 
arise from numerous sources, not all of which are fully within 
Citi’s control. These include, among others, human error, such 
as manual transaction processing errors, which can be 
exacerbated by staffing challenges and processing backlogs; 
fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties; 
operational or execution failures or deficiencies by third 
parties; insufficient (or limited) straight-through processing 
between legacy systems and any failure to design and 
effectively operate controls that mitigate operational risks 
associated with those legacy systems leading to potential risk 
of errors and operating losses; accidental system or 
technological failure; electrical or telecommunication outages; 
failures of or cyber incidents involving computer servers or 
infrastructure; or other similar losses or damage to Citi’s 
property or assets (see also the climate change risk factor 
above). 

For example, Citi has experienced and could experience 
further losses associated with manual transaction processing 
errors, including erroneous payments to lenders or manual 
errors by Citi traders that cause system and market disruptions 
and losses for Citi and its clients. Irrespective of the 
sophistication of the technology utilized by Citi, there will 
always be some room for human error. In view of the large 
transactions in which Citi engages, such errors could result in 
significant losses. While Citi has change management 
processes in place to appropriately upgrade its operational 
processes and systems to ensure that any changes introduced 
do not adversely impact security and operational continuity, 
such change management can fail or be ineffective. 
Operational incidents can also arise as a result of failures by 
third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures by 
internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or 
other vendors to adequately follow procedures or processes, 
safeguard their systems or prevent system disruptions or 
cyberattacks.

Incidents that impact information security and/or 

technology operations may cause disruptions and/or 
malfunctions within Citi’s businesses (e.g., the temporary loss 
of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile 
banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, 
customers or other third parties. In addition, operational 
incidents could involve the failure or ineffectiveness of 
internal processes or controls. Given Citi’s global footprint 
and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain 
failures, errors or actions may be repeated or compounded 
before they are discovered and rectified, which would further 
increase the consequences and costs. Operational incidents 
could result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, 
corruption or loss of confidential and other information or 
assets, which could significantly negatively impact Citi’s 
reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of 
operations and financial condition. Cyber-related and other 
operational incidents can also result in legal and regulatory 
actions or proceedings, fines and other costs (see the legal and 
regulatory proceedings risk factor below).

For information on Citi’s management of operational risk, 

see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk” below.

Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks 
Will Continue to Be Susceptible to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Incidents 
That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure 
of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to 
Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory 
Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.
Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to 
ongoing cyber incidents, such as unauthorized access, loss or 
destruction of data (including confidential client information), 
account takeovers, disruptions of service, phishing, malware, 
ransomware, computer viruses or other malicious code, 
cyberattacks and other similar events. These threats can arise 
from external parties, including cyber criminals, cyber 
terrorists, hacktivists (individuals or groups using cyberattacks 
to promote a political or social agenda) and nation-state actors, 
as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly engage in 
or enable malicious cyber activities.

The increasing use of mobile and other digital banking 
platforms and services, cloud technologies and connectivity 
solutions to facilitate remote working for Citi’s employees all 
increase Citi’s exposure to cybersecurity risks. Citi’s wind-
down of its businesses in Russia could also increase its 
susceptibility to cyberattacks (for additional information about 
Citi’s exposures related to its Russia operations, see the 
macroeconomic and geopolitical risk factor above and 
“Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—
Russia” below).

Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as 
retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do 
business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, 
particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s 
security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources 
certain functions, such as processing customer credit card 
transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites 
and developing software for new products and services. These 
relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer 
information by third-party hosting of, or access to, Citi 
websites, which could lead to compromise or the potential to 
introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security 
breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because 
financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected 
with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including 
as a result of derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi 
has increased exposure to cyberattacks through third parties. 
While many of Citi’s agreements with third parties include 
indemnification provisions, Citi may not be able to recover 
sufficiently, or at all, under these provisions to adequately 
offset any losses Citi may incur from third-party cyber 
incidents.

Citi and some of its third-party partners have been subject 

to attempted and sometimes successful cyberattacks from 
external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial 
of service attacks, which attempt to interrupt service to clients 
and customers; (ii) hacking and malicious software 
installations intended to gain unauthorized access to 
information systems or to disrupt those systems; (iii) data 

48

breaches due to unauthorized access to customer account data; 
and (iv) malicious software attacks on client systems, in 
attempts to gain unauthorized access to Citi systems or client 
data under the guise of normal client transactions. While Citi’s 
monitoring and protection services were able to detect and 
respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they 
became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some 
instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor 
against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can 
be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, 
and they could occur more frequently, via novel tactics and on 
a more significant scale.

Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to 

implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its 
systems and networks with measures such as intrusion 
detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical 
business applications, there is no guarantee that these 
measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. 
Because the techniques used to initiate cyberattacks change 
frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched 
or even later, Citi may be unable to implement effective 
preventive measures or otherwise proactively address these 
methods. In addition, given the evolving nature of cyber threat 
actors and the frequency and sophistication of the cyber 
activities they carry out, the determination of the severity and 
potential impact of a cyber incident may not become apparent 
for a substantial period of time following discovery of the 
incident. Also, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce 
the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing 
security control assessments of third-party vendors and 
limiting third-party access to the least privileged level 
necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot 
prevent all third-party-related cyberattacks or data breaches.
Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, 

confidential or proprietary customer, client or employee 
information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and 
the market, customer dissatisfaction and additional costs to 
Citi, including expenses such as repairing systems, replacing 
customer payment cards, credit monitoring or adding new 
personnel or protection technologies. Cyber incidents can also 
result in regulatory penalties, loss of revenues, exposure to 
litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to 
both Citi and its clients and customers and disruption to Citi’s 
operational systems (for additional information on the 
potential impact of operational disruptions, see the operational 
processes and systems risk factor above). Moreover, the 
increasing risk of cyber incidents has resulted in increased 
legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity 
protection services and calls for additional laws and 
regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ 
personal data.

While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject 

to policy terms and conditions including significant self-
insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such 
insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and 
may not take into account reputational harm, the costs of 
which are impossible to quantify.

For additional information about Citi’s management of 

cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational 
Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below.

Changes or Errors in Accounting Assumptions, Judgments 
or Estimates, or the Application of Certain Accounting 
Principles, Could Result in Significant Losses or Other 
Adverse Impacts.
U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions, 
judgments and estimates in preparing its financial statements, 
including, among other items, the estimate of the ACL; 
reserves related to litigation, regulatory and tax matters; 
valuation of DTAs; the fair values of certain assets and 
liabilities; and the assessment of goodwill and other assets for 
impairment. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are 
inherently limited because they involve techniques, including 
the use of historical data in many circumstances, that cannot 
anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the 
markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the 
specifics and timing of such outcomes. For example, many 
models used by Citi include assumptions about correlation or 
lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other 
market indicators that may not hold in times of market stress, 
limited liquidity or other unforeseen circumstances. If Citi’s 
assumptions, judgments or estimates underlying its financial 
statements are incorrect or differ from actual or subsequent 
events, Citi could experience unexpected losses or other 
adverse impacts, some of which could be significant. Citi 
could also experience declines in its stock price, be subject to 
legal and regulatory proceedings and incur fines and other 
losses. For additional information on the key areas for which 
assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s 
financial statements, see “Significant Accounting Policies and 
Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15.

For example, the CECL methodology requires that Citi 
provide reserves for a current estimate of lifetime expected 
credit losses for its loan portfolios and other financial assets, 
as applicable, at the time those assets are originated or 
acquired. This estimate is adjusted each period for changes in 
expected lifetime credit losses. Citi’s ACL estimate depends 
upon its CECL models and assumptions; forecasted 
macroeconomic conditions, including, among other things, the 
U.S. unemployment rate and U.S. inflation-adjusted gross 
domestic product (real GDP); and the credit indicators, 
composition and other characteristics of Citi’s loan portfolios 
and other applicable financial assets. These model 
assumptions and forecasted macroeconomic conditions will 
change over time, resulting in variability in Citi’s ACL, and, 
thus, impact its results of operations and financial condition, 
as well as regulatory capital due to the CECL phase-in (for 
additional information on the CECL phase-in, see the capital 
return risk factor above). 

Moreover, Citi has incurred losses related to its foreign 

operations that are reported in the CTA components of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). In 
accordance with U.S. GAAP, a sale, substantial liquidation or 
other deconsolidation event of any foreign operations, such as 
those related to Citi’s remaining divestitures or legacy 
businesses, would result in reclassification of any foreign CTA 
component of AOCI related to that foreign operation, 
including related hedges and taxes, into Citi’s earnings. For 
example, in the second quarter of 2022, Citi incurred a CTA 
loss (net of hedges) in AOCI released to earnings of 
approximately $400 million ($345 million after-tax) related to 

49

the substantial liquidation of a legacy U.K. consumer 
operation (for additional information, see “Legacy 
Franchises” and “Corporate/Other” above and Note 2). For 
additional information on Citi’s accounting policy for foreign 
currency translation and its foreign CTA components of 
AOCI, see Notes 1 and 20. 

Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards 
or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How 
Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.
Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards 
that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or 
interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, 
including those areas where Citi is required to make 
assumptions or estimates. Changes to financial accounting or 
reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or 
required by the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators or others, 
could present operational challenges and could also require 
Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it 
previously used in preparing its financial statements, which 
could negatively impact how it records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations generally and/or 
with respect to particular businesses. See Note 1 for additional 
information on Citi’s accounting policies and changes in 
accounting, including the expected impacts on Citi’s results of 
operations and financial condition.

If Citi’s Risk Management Processes, Strategies or Models 
Are Deficient or Ineffective, Citi May Incur Significant 
Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could 
Be Negatively Impacted.
Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management 
and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of 
models in enacting processes and strategies as well as in 
analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in 
conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part 
of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across the 
Company. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and 
manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is 
made more challenging within a global financial institution 
such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and 
rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which 
Citi operates as well as that losses can occur unintentionally 
from untimely, inaccurate or incomplete processes and data. 
As discussed below, in October 2020, Citigroup and Citibank 
entered into consent orders with the FRB and OCC that 
require Citigroup and Citibank to make improvements in 
various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, 
compliance, data quality management and governance and 
internal controls (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” 
above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor 
below).

Citi’s risk management processes, strategies and models 

are inherently limited because they involve techniques, 
including the use of historical data in many circumstances, 
assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every 
economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi 
operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of 

such outcomes. For example, many models used by Citi 
include assumptions about correlation or lack thereof among 
prices of various asset classes or other market indicators that 
may not necessarily hold in times of market stress, limited 
liquidity or other unforeseen circumstances. Citi could incur 
significant losses, and its regulatory capital and capital ratios 
could be negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management 
processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data 
in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are 
deficient or ineffective. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness 
could also result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk 
reporting.

Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, 
including its credit, market and operational risk models, 
currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and 
approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or 
enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Citi is 
required to notify and obtain preapproval from both the OCC 
and FRB prior to implementing certain risk-weighted asset 
treatments, as well as certain model changes, resulting in a 
more challenging environment within which Citi must operate 
in managing its risk-weighted assets. Modifications or 
requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as 
any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking 
agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework 
applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to 
result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets. 
These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and 
its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements. 

CREDIT RISKS

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the 
Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.
 Citi has credit exposures to consumer, corporate and public 
sector borrowers and other counterparties in the U.S. and 
various countries and jurisdictions globally, including end-of-
period consumer loans of $368 billion and end-of-period 
corporate loans of $289 billion at December 31, 2022. For 
additional information on Citi’s corporate and consumer loan 
portfolios, see “Managing Global Risk—Corporate Credit” 
and “—Consumer Credit” below.

A default by a borrower or other counterparty, or a 
decline in the credit quality or value of any underlying 
collateral, exposes Citi to credit risk. Despite Citi’s target 
client strategy, various macroeconomic, geopolitical and other 
factors, among other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and 
credit costs, particularly for certain sectors, industries or 
countries (for additional information, see the co-branding and 
private label credit card and macroeconomic challenges and 
uncertainties risk factors above and the emerging markets risk 
factor below). For example, a weakening of economic 
conditions can adversely affect borrowers’ ability to repay 
their obligations, as well as result in Citi being unable to 
liquidate the collateral it holds or forced to liquidate the 
collateral at prices that do not cover the full amount owed to 
Citi. Citi is also a member of various central clearing 
counterparties and could incur financial losses as a result of 
defaults by other clearing members due to the requirements of 
clearing members to share losses. Additionally, due to the 

interconnectedness among financial institutions, concerns 
about the creditworthiness of or defaults by a financial 
institution could spread to other financial market participants 
and result in market-wide losses.

While Citi provides reserves for expected losses for its 
credit exposures, as applicable, such reserves are subject to 
judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from 
actual future events. Under the CECL accounting standard, the 
ACL reflects expected losses, which has resulted in and could 
lead to additional volatility in the allowance and the provision 
for credit losses as forecasts of economic conditions change. 
For additional information, see the incorrect assumptions or 
estimates and changes to financial accounting and reporting 
standards risk factors above. For additional information on 
Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and 
Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15. For 
additional information on Citi’s credit and country risk, see 
each respective business’s results of operations above and 
“Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk” and “Managing Global 
Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk” below and Notes 14 and 
15. 

Concentrations of risk to clients or counterparties engaged 

in the same or related industries or doing business in a 
particular geography, especially credit and market risks, can 
also increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. For example, Citi 
routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, 
derivative and foreign exchange transactions with non-U.S. 
sovereigns and with counterparties in the financial services 
industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment 
banks, governments, central banks and other financial 
institutions. Moreover, Citi has indemnification obligations in 
connection with various transactions that expose it to 
concentrations of risk, including credit risk from hedging or 
reinsurance arrangements related to those obligations (for 
additional information about these exposures, see Note 27). A 
rapid deterioration of a large borrower or other counterparty or 
within a sector or country in which Citi has large exposures or 
indemnifications or unexpected market dislocations could lead 
to concerns about the creditworthiness of other borrowers or 
counterparties in related or dependent industries, and such 
conditions could cause Citi to incur significant losses.

LIQUIDITY RISKS

Citi’s Businesses, Results of Operations and Financial 
Condition Could Be Negatively Impacted if It Does Not 
Effectively Manage Its Liquidity. 
As a large, global financial institution, adequate liquidity and 
sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s 
liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and 
negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as 
general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental 
fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative 
investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness, unexpected 
increases in cash or collateral requirements and the consequent 
inability to monetize available liquidity resources. Citi 
competes with other banks and financial institutions for both 
institutional and consumer deposits, which represent Citi’s 
most stable and lowest cost source of long-term funding. The 
competition for deposits has continued to increase in recent 

50

years, including as a result of online banks and digital banking 
and fixed income alternatives for customer funds. 
Furthermore, it is expected that the market for deposits will 
become more competitive in the current higher interest rate 
environment. 

Citi’s costs to obtain and access wholesale funding are 

directly related to changes in interest and currency exchange 
rates and its credit spreads. For example, during 2022, interest 
rates in the U.S. increased significantly, thus, affecting Citi’s 
cost of funding. Changes in Citi’s credit spreads are driven by 
both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, such 
as negative views by investors of the financial services 
industry or Citi’s financial prospects, and can be highly 
volatile. For additional information on Citi’s primary sources 
of funding, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” 
below. 

Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired and its 
cost of funding could also increase if other market participants 
are seeking to access the markets at the same time or to a 
greater extent than expected, or if market appetite for 
corporate debt securities declines, as is likely to occur in a 
liquidity stress event or other market crisis. Citi’s ability to 
sell assets may also be impaired if other market participants 
are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time or a liquid 
market does not exist for such assets. A sudden drop in market 
liquidity could also cause a temporary or protracted 
dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In 
addition, clearing organizations, central banks, clients and 
financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise 
the right to require additional collateral during challenging 
market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s liquidity. 
If Citi fails to effectively manage its liquidity, its businesses, 
results of operations and financial condition could be 
negatively impacted.

In addition, as a holding company, Citigroup Inc. relies on 

interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its 
subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and 
other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. 
subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other 
liquidity, regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability 
to provide such payments, including any local regulatory 
stress test requirements and inter-affiliate arrangements 
entered into in connection with Citigroup Inc.’s resolution 
plan. Citigroup Inc.’s broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries are 
subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with 
affiliates, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds 
deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund 
their businesses. Limitations on the payments that Citigroup 
Inc. receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its 
liquidity. A bank holding company is required by law to act as 
a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary 
banks. As a result, the FRB may require Citigroup Inc. to 
commit resources to its subsidiary banks even if doing so is 
not otherwise in the interests of Citigroup Inc. or its 
shareholders or creditors, reducing the amount of funds 
available to meet its obligations.

Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit 
Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and a Ratings 
Downgrade Could Adversely Impact Citi’s Funding and 
Liquidity.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch Ratings, Moody’s 
Investors Services and S&P Global Ratings, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries. Their ratings of 
Citi and its rated subsidiaries’ long-term debt and short-term 
obligations are based on several factors, including the 
financial strength of Citi and such subsidiaries, as well as 
factors that are not entirely within the control of Citi and its 
subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating 
methodologies and assumptions, and conditions affecting the 
financial services industry and markets generally.

Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their 

current respective ratings and outlooks. Rating downgrades 
could negatively impact Citi and its rated subsidiaries’ ability 
to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as 
well as the costs of those funds. A ratings downgrade could 
also have a negative impact on Citi and its rated subsidiaries’ 
ability to obtain funding and liquidity due to reduced funding 
capacity and the impact from derivative triggers, which could 
require Citi and its rated subsidiaries to meet cash obligations 
and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade 
could have a negative impact on other funding sources such as 
secured financing and other margined transactions for which 
there may be no explicit triggers, and on contractual 
provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s 
counterparties and clients that may contain minimum ratings 
thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. 

Furthermore, a credit ratings downgrade could have 

impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not 
possible to quantify. Some of Citi’s counterparties and clients 
could have ratings limitations on their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. 
Certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading 
counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their 
business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain 
contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings 
downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior 
could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the 
results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional 
information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or 
Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—
Liquidity Risk” below.

COMPLIANCE RISKS

Ongoing Interpretation and Implementation of Regulatory 
and Legislative Requirements and Changes and Heightened 
Regulatory Scrutiny and Expectations in the U.S. and 
Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance, Regulatory and 
Other Risks and Costs.
 Citi is continually required to interpret and implement 
extensive and frequently changing regulatory and legislative 
requirements in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which it 
does business, which may overlap or conflict across 
jurisdictions, resulting in substantial compliance, regulatory 
and other risks and costs. In addition, there are heightened 
regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally 

51

for large financial institutions, as well as their employees and 
agents, with respect to governance, infrastructure, data, 
climate and risk management practices and controls. These 
requirements and expectations also include, among other 
things, those related to customer and client protection, market 
practices, anti-money laundering and increasingly complex 
sanctions and disclosure regimes. A failure to comply with 
these requirements and expectations, even if inadvertent, or 
resolve any identified deficiencies, could result in increased 
regulatory oversight and restrictions, enforcement 
proceedings, penalties and fines (for additional information on 
such regulatory consequences, see the legal and regulatory 
proceedings risk factor below). 

Over the past several years, Citi has been required to 
implement a significant number of regulatory and legislative 
changes, including new regulatory or legislative requirements 
or regimes, across its businesses and functions, and these 
changes continue. The changes themselves may be complex 
and subject to interpretation, and will require continued 
investments in Citi’s global operations and technology 
solutions. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory 
or legislative requirement is occurring simultaneously with 
changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges 
or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact 
new rules. Examples of regulatory or legislative changes that 
have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include 
(i) various laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data 
movement and/or collection and use of customer information, 
including data localization and protection and privacy laws, 
which also can conflict with or increase compliance 
complexity with respect to other laws, including anti-money 
laundering laws; and (ii) the U.S. banking agencies’ regulatory 
capital rules and requirements, which have continued to 
evolve (for additional information, see the capital return risk 
factor and “Capital Resources” above). In addition, certain 
U.S. regulatory agencies and non-U.S. authorities have 
prioritized issues of social, economic and racial justice, and 
are in the process of considering ways in which these issues 
can be mitigated, including through rulemaking, supervision 
and other means, even while Congress is signaling, and certain 
U.S. state governments are pursuing potentially conflicting 
anti-ESG priorities. 

Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings, Examinations, Investigations, Consent Orders 
and Related Compliance Efforts and Other Inquiries That 
Could Result in Significant Monetary Penalties, Supervisory 
or Enforcement Orders, Business Restrictions, Limitations 
on Dividends, Changes to Directors and/or Officers and 
Collateral Consequences Arising from Such Outcomes.
At any given time, Citi is a party to a significant number of 
legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous 
governmental and regulatory examinations. Additionally, Citi 
remains subject to governmental and regulatory investigations, 
consent orders and related compliance efforts, and other 
inquiries. Citi could also be subject to enforcement 
proceedings not only because of violations of laws and 
regulations, but also due to failures, as determined by its 
regulators, to have adequate policies and procedures, or to 
remedy deficiencies on a timely basis. 

52

As previously disclosed, the October 2020 FRB and OCC 

consent orders require Citigroup and Citibank to implement 
targeted action plans and submit quarterly progress reports 
detailing the results and status of improvements relating 
principally to various aspects of enterprise-wide risk 
management, compliance, data quality management and 
governance and internal controls. These improvements will 
result in continued significant investments by Citi during 2023 
and beyond, as an essential part of Citi’s broader 
transformation efforts to enhance its risk, controls, data and 
finance infrastructure and compliance. 

Although there are no restrictions on Citi’s ability to serve 

its clients, the OCC consent order requires Citibank to obtain 
prior approval of any significant new acquisition, including 
any portfolio or business acquisition, excluding ordinary 
course transactions. Moreover, the OCC consent order 
provides that the OCC has the right to assess future civil 
money penalties or take other supervisory and/or enforcement 
actions. Such actions by the OCC could include imposing 
business restrictions, including possible limitations on the 
declaration or payment of dividends and changes in directors 
and/or senior executive officers. More generally, the OCC 
and/or the FRB could take additional enforcement or other 
actions if the regulatory agency believes that Citi has not met 
regulatory expectations regarding compliance with the consent 
orders. For additional information regarding the consent 
orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above.

The global judicial, regulatory and political environment 
has generally been challenging for large financial institutions, 
and financial institutions have been subject to continued 
regulatory scrutiny. The complexity of the federal and state 
regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with 
the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single 
event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping 
investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple 
federal and state agencies and authorities in the U.S. or by 
multiple regulators and other governmental entities in foreign 
jurisdictions, as well as multiple civil litigation claims in 
multiple jurisdictions. Violations of law by other financial 
institutions may also result in regulatory scrutiny of Citi. 
Responding to regulatory inquiries and proceedings can be 
time consuming and costly. 

U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly 
focused on the culture of financial services firms, including 
Citi, as well as “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the 
risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, 
including third parties, that could harm clients, customers, 
employees or the integrity of the markets, such as improperly 
creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services 
or improper incentive compensation programs with respect 
thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or 
failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. 

In addition to the greater focus on conduct risk, the 
general heightened scrutiny and expectations from regulators 
could lead to investigations and other inquiries, as well as 
remediation requirements, more regulatory or other 
enforcement proceedings, civil litigation and higher 
compliance and other risks and costs. Further, while Citi takes 
numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees 
and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, 

employees or the integrity of the markets, such behavior may 
not always be deterred or prevented. In addition to regulatory 
restrictions or structural changes that could result from 
perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also 
lead to additional regulatory proceedings. Moreover, the 
severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory 
proceedings to which Citi is subject has remained elevated. 
U.S. and certain non-U.S. governmental entities have 
increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought 
criminal convictions from, financial institutions and individual 
employees, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have 
increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or 
deferred prosecution agreements against financial entities and 
individuals and other criminal sanctions for those institutions 
and individuals. These types of actions by U.S. and 
international governmental entities may, in the future, have 
significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, 
including loss of customers and business, and the inability to 
offer certain products or services and/or operate certain 
businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to 
similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, 
substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial 
costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters 
or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could 
materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business 
practices, financial condition or results of operations, require 
material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational 
harm. 

Additionally, many large claims—both private civil and 
regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to 
develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The 
outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate 
until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes 
accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to 
accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, 
these accruals involve significant judgment and may be 
subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss 
ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be 
substantially higher than the amounts accrued (see the 
incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor above). In 
addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and 
may not be approved. For further information on Citi’s legal 
and regulatory proceedings, see Note 29.

OTHER RISKS

Citi’s Emerging Markets Presence Subjects It to Various 
Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks 
and Costs.
During 2022, emerging markets revenues accounted for 
approximately 37% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally 
defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia 
(other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), and central 
and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa in EMEA). 
Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to various 
risks, such as limitations or unavailability of hedges on foreign 
investments; foreign currency volatility, including 
devaluations and continued strength in the U.S. dollar; 
sustained increases in interest rates; sovereign debt volatility; 
election outcomes, regulatory changes and political events; 

53

foreign exchange controls, including inability to access 
indirect foreign exchange mechanisms; macroeconomic and 
geopolitical challenges and uncertainties and volatility, 
including with respect to Russia and China (see the 
macroeconomic and geopolitical risk factor above and 
“Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—
Russia” and “—Ukraine” below); limitations on foreign 
investment; sociopolitical instability (including from 
hyperinflation); fraud; nationalization or loss of licenses; 
restrictions arising from retaliatory Russian laws and 
regulations on the conduct of its business; sanctions or asset 
freezes; potential criminal charges; closure of branches or 
subsidiaries; and confiscation of assets, and these risks can be 
exacerbated in the event of a deterioration in relationships 
between the U.S. and an emerging market country. 

For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, 

or have had in the past, strict capital controls, currency 
controls and/or sanctions, such as Argentina and Russia, that 
limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/
or transfer funds outside of those countries. For instance, due 
to currency controls in Argentina, Citi faces a risk of 
devaluation on its unhedged Argentine peso-denominated 
assets, which continue to increase (for additional information 
on Argentina-related risks, see “Managing Global Risk—
Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” below). Moreover, if 
the economic situation in a country in which Citi operates 
were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators 
through the Interagency Country Exposure Review Committee 
(ICERC) may impose mandatory loan loss or other reserve 
requirements on Citi, which would increase its credit costs and 
decrease its earnings. 

In addition, political turmoil and instability and 
geopolitical tensions and conflicts (such as the Russia–
Ukraine war) have occurred in various regions and emerging 
market countries across the globe which have required, and 
may continue to require, management time and attention and 
other resources, such as monitoring the impact of sanctions on 
certain emerging market economies as well as impacting Citi’s 
businesses, results of operations and financial conditions in 
affected countries. 

The Transition Away from and Discontinuance of LIBOR or 
Any Other Interest Rate Benchmark Could Have Adverse 
Consequences for Citi.
LIBOR and other rates or indices deemed to be benchmarks 
have been the subject of ongoing U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory 
scrutiny and reform. The LIBOR administrator ceased 
publication of non-USD LIBOR and one-week and two-month 
USD LIBOR on a permanent or representative basis on 
December 31, 2021, with plans for all other USD LIBOR 
tenors to permanently cease or become non-representative 
after June 30, 2023. As a result, Citi ceased entering into new 
contracts referencing USD LIBOR as of January 1, 2022, 
other than for limited circumstances where regulators 
recognized that it may be appropriate for banks to enter into 
new USD LIBOR contracts, including with respect to market-
making, hedging or novations of USD transactions executed 
before January 1, 2022.

Through a global effort by the financial services industry 
and regulators, alternative reference rates have been identified 

and/or developed and are being used to replace LIBOR and 
other benchmark rates. Alternative reference rates, such as the 
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), are calculated 
using components different from those used in the calculation 
of LIBOR and may fluctuate differently than, and not be 
representative of, LIBOR. In order to compensate for these 
differences, certain of Citi’s financial instruments and 
commercial agreements allow for a benchmark replacement 
adjustment. However, there can be no assurance that any 
benchmark replacement adjustment will be sufficient to 
produce the economic equivalent of LIBOR, either at the 
benchmark replacement date or over the life of such 
instruments and agreements. 

Moreover, the transition presents challenges related to 

contractual mechanics of existing contracts that reference 
USD LIBOR and are governed by non-U.S. law or reference 
the USD LIBOR Ice Swap Rate. Certain of these legacy 
instruments and contracts are not covered by any legislative 
solution and do not provide for fallbacks to alternative 
reference rates, which makes it unclear what the applicable 
future replacement benchmark rates and associated payments 
might be after the current benchmark’s cessation. Citi may be 
unable to amend certain instruments and contracts due to an 
inability to obtain sufficient levels of consent from 
counterparties or security holders. Although this will depend 
on the precise contractual terms of the instrument, such 
consent requirements are often conditions of securities, such 
as floating rate notes. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
a U.K. regulator, has proposed that one-, three- and six-month 
USD LIBOR be published on a synthetic basis, which would 
only be available through September 2024.

In addition, the transition away from and discontinuance 
of LIBOR and other benchmark rates have subjected financial 
institutions, including Citi, to heightened scrutiny from 
regulators. Failure to successfully transition away from 
LIBOR and other benchmark rates could result in adverse 
regulatory actions, disputes, including potential litigation 
involving holders of outstanding products and contracts that 
reference LIBOR and other benchmark rates, and reputational 
harm to Citi. See “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—
LIBOR Transition Risk” for Citi’s ongoing actions to prepare 
for the transition away from LIBOR.

SUSTAINABILITY AND OTHER ESG 
MATTERS

Introduction 
Citi has worked on Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) issues for more than 20 years and has a demonstrated 
record of ESG progress, including participating in the creation 
and adoption of ESG-related principles and standards. This 
section summarizes some of Citi’s key ESG initiatives, 
including its Sustainable Progress Strategy, Net Zero, and 
Financial Inclusion and Racial Equity commitments.

 Citi’s ESG Report provides information on a broad set of 

ESG-related efforts. Citi’s Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report provides its stakeholders 
with information on Citi’s continued progress to manage 

climate risk and its Net Zero plan, including information on 
financed emissions and 2030 emissions targets. 

For information regarding Citi’s management of climate 
risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risks—Climate 
Risk” below. 

ESG and Climate-Related Governance
Citi’s Board of Directors (Board) provides oversight of Citi’s 
management activities (for additional information, see 
“Managing Global Risk—Risk Governance” below). For 
example, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs 
Committee of the Board oversees many of Citi’s ESG 
activities, including reviewing Citi’s policies and programs for 
environmental and social sustainability, climate change, 
human rights, diversity and other ESG issues, as well as 
overseeing engagement with external stakeholders. 

The Risk Management Committee of the Board provides 

oversight of Citi’s Independent Risk Management function 
and reviews Citi’s risk policies and frameworks, including 
receiving climate risk-related updates.

The Audit Committee of the Board has recently been 
chartered to provide oversight of controls and procedures 
pertaining to the ESG-related metrics and related disclosures 
in Citi’s SEC filed reports and voluntary ESG reporting, as 
well as management’s evaluation of Citi’s disclosure controls 
and procedures for ESG reporting.

Citi’s Global ESG Council consists of senior members of 

its management team and certain subject matter experts who 
provide oversight of Citi’s ESG goals and activities. In 
addition, a number of teams and senior managers contribute to 
the oversight and management of areas such as environmental 
sustainability; community investing; talent and diversity; 
ethics and business practices; and remuneration.

Citi’s climate governance structure continues to evolve as 

Citi advances its understanding of its climate risk and its 
progress under the Net Zero plan. In addition to the expansion 
of the Board’s oversight of climate matters (see Risk 
Management Committee and Audit Committee descriptions 
above), Citi has: 

•

•

•

Expanded and realigned its climate risk team to be part of 
the Enterprise Risk Management function within Risk; 
Further built out its Clean Energy Transition (CET) team 
(formed in 2021 and expanded in 2022 to include 
Corporate Banking), which focuses on providing advisory 
and capital-raising services to companies involved in 
energy transition; and
Launched two climate training pilots for its BCMA 
(Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory), Risk 
Management and Global Functions teams involving in-
person workshops focused on providing foundational 
knowledge of climate risks and client engagement.

Key ESG Initiatives

Sustainable Progress Strategy
Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy is summarized in its 
Environmental and Social Policy Framework. The three pillars 
of the strategy each have climate-related elements and serve as 
the foundation for Citi’s climate commitments: 

54

