citigroup_inc_2020_Q4

          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to offer
          banking services for merchants, vendors................................................................................................................. 4

          Lapses at Citi Draw $400 Million Fine ...................................................................................................................... 5


          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to
          offer banking services for merchants, vendors                           
          Stripe Inc. is teaming up with banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. to offer checking
          accounts and other business-banking services, the startup's latest attempt to become the internet's financial
          supermarket.                                                            
          Stripe, which processes payments for millions of online businesses and e-commerce platforms, will soon give
          its customers the option of offering insured, interest-bearing bank accounts, debit cards and other
          cash-management services.                                               
          These products aren't meant for consumers. Rather, they are designed for the merchants and vendors that
          do business with Stripe's customers.                                    
          Among the early adopters of Stripe's new banking services is Shopify Inc., which, starting early next year, will
          offer Shopify Balance accounts to many of the hundreds of thousands of merchants that use its software.
          Shopify Balance accounts will be held at Memphis, Tenn.-based Evolve Bancorp Inc., but Stripe is also
          teaming up with Goldman in the U.S. and with Citigroup and Barclays PLC internationally to store and move
          customer funds.                                                         
          Digital banks like Square Inc.'s Cash App and startup Chime Financial Inc. have recently earned big
          followings -- and multibillion-dollar valuations -- by providing consumers with alternatives to checking
          accounts.                                                               
          Stripe, on the other hand, is focused on automating business banking, specifically for platforms that
          themselves have existing ties to scores of other businesses.            
          A number of financial-technology companies offer banking and lending services alongside their signature
          products. Square, for example, offers commercial loans to users based in part on signals about
          creditworthiness gleaned from processing payments, a business that Stripe also entered last year.
          For their part, banks have also looked to partnerships with technology companies as a more efficient way to
          gather deposits than mailed-out offers or branch traffic. Starting next year, Alphabet Inc.'s Google will allow
          users to open checking and savings accounts at Citigroup and other banks through the Google Pay app.
          Coronavirus stay-at-home orders and shutdowns have boosted Stripe this year. More than 500,000 new
          businesses have signed up for Stripe services since March, and existing Stripe customers like Shopify and
          DoorDash Inc. experienced a surge of demand.                            
          "For the partner banks we're working with, our intent for it is to be a shockingly effective customer-acquisition
          channel for them where they end up with many, many more customers," said John Collison, Stripe's
          co-founder and president.                                               


          Lapses at Citi Draw $400 Million Fine                                   
          Federal regulators fined Citigroup Inc. $400 million and ordered the nation's third-largest bank to fix its
          risk-management systems, citing "significant ongoing deficiencies."     
          In a consent order agreed to by the New York bank's board, the Federal Reserve faulted Citigroup for falling
          short in "various areas of risk management and internal controls" including data management, regulatory
          reporting and capital planning. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, in a separate consent order,
          also issued Wednesday, said the fine was punishment for the bank's "long-standing failure" to remedy
          problems in its risk and data-management systems.                       
          The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that the Fed and the OCC were planning to reprimand Citigroup for
          failing to improve its risk-management systems -- an expansive set of technology and procedures designed
          to detect problematic transactions, risky trades and anything else that could harm the bank.
          "We are disappointed that we have fallen short of our regulators' expectations, and we are fully committed to
          thoroughly addressing the issues identified in the Consent Orders," the bank said. "Citi has significant
          remediation projects underway to strengthen our controls, infrastructure and governance."
          The public rebuke marks a major escalation of regulators' efforts to get Citigroup to fix its risk systems.
          For years, the Fed and the OCC have privately pushed Citigroup Chief Executive Michael Corbat to give
          priority to an overhaul of the systems. Their decision to issue consent orders requiring the changes indicates
          that the pressure they were exerting behind the scenes wasn't enough.   
          The reprimand -- in the works for several months -- accelerated planning for Mr. Corbat's retirement. Mr.
          Corbat, who said last month that he would step down in February, felt the expensive, multiyear overhaul was
          best left in the hands of his successor, Jane Fraser, the Journal previously reported. Ms. Fraser is currently
          Citigroup's president and the head of its consumer bank.                
          The punishment, while substantial, is gentler than the rebuke Wells Fargo & Co. got for weaknesses in its
          risk-management systems brought to light by its 2016 fake-account scandal. The OCC fined the bank in early
          2018 more than $1 billion, and the Fed imposed an unprecedented growth cap on the bank.
          At issue at Citigroup is the infrastructure underpinning the bank's systems meant to identify risk and protect
          customer data.                                                          
          Many of Citigroup's various businesses, for example, run on their own independent systems that have their
          own methods for tracking customers and transactions. There are hundreds of identification systems inside the
          bank. A customer doing business with multiple parts of the bank could have different identification codes for
          each one.                                                               
          Regulators have long fretted that the hodgepodge of systems, a legacy of a string of deals in the 1990s that
          turned Citigroup into a financial powerhouse, could make the bank vulnerable to costly and potentially
          damaging missteps. A recent high-profile error -- Citigroup's accidental $900 million payment to creditors of
          cosmetics company Revlon Inc. -- gave credence to their concerns.       
          The consent orders from the OCC and Fed leave Citigroup with a lengthy to-do list. The regulators ordered
          the bank to form a new board committee to oversee the risk overhaul and to develop plans for holding
          management accountable.                                                 
          The OCC order requires Citigroup to seek approval for any acquisition and gives the regulator power to order
          the bank to replace managers or directors. The Fed and the OCC already broadly exercise veto power over
          big purchases.                                                          
          In its order, the OCC called out Citigroup's procedures for reporting problems within the bank to the board of
          directors and its leaders' lack of "clearly defined roles and responsibilities." It said the bank failed to comply
          with "multiple laws and regulations," including the Fair Housing Act.   
          The risk-management overhaul is expected to be an expensive undertaking. Chief Financial Officer Mark
          Mason had said the bank would spend $1 billion on the work this year alone.