Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2021_Q3

A new technology platform backed by the biggest U.S. banks and money managers is aiming to bring the
IPO market into the 21st century.                                       
The syndicate desk -- a longtime fixture at banks across Wall Street where IPOs and other large stock sales
are priced and allocated to investors -- has long clung to traditional ways of doing business like phone orders
and scribbled pieces of paper, even as other businesses go digital.     
Capital Markets Gateway LLC has set out to change that. Backed by Franklin Templeton, Fidelity
Investments, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, among others, CMG
was launched in 2017 by former bankers at Robert W. Baird & Co.         

America's biggest bank is buying the company behind the Zagat brand.    
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said on Thursday that it has reached a deal to acquire the Infatuation, which owns
websets and apps that guide diners to eat like locals in cities around the world.
The company also hosts a biannual food festival, Eeeeeatscon, where restaurants serve food in a stadium
while musicians and speakers entertain attendees.                       
JPMorgan is buying all of the Infatuation's business, including the decadesold restaurant brand Zagat.

Banks don't usually buy media companies. But JPMorgan has made a push to attract big spenders who like
to travel and dine out, particularly through credit-card rewards. Last year, the bank rolled out Chase Dining in
its Ultimate Rewards portal, which gives certain cardholders access to hard-to-get dining reservations and
other perks.                                                            
Sapphire Reserve and Preferred cardholders get access to virtual events with chefs, mixologists and
restaurateurs.                                                          

JPMorgan plans to give some of its customers, including credit-card holders, special access to the
Infatuation's curated experiences, like Eeeeeatscon, and to certain content on its website.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Friday it was granted permission to take full control of a securities business in
China, a first for an international firm and a continuation of financial-market liberalization by Beijing at a time
of waning confidence in its markets.                                    
After years of slow-walking promises to allow access to its financial markets by Wall Street giants, China has
loosened rules to give firms more opportunity to trade securities in the country and build investor bases.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., the two biggest banks in the U.S., at the end of June
together had nearly $1 trillion in unused commitments to lend to corporate clients. That is up 20% from a year
ago and a quarterly record at both banks.                               

In a June survey of commercial-banking clients, JPMorgan found business confidence at its highest level in
the survey's 11-year history. About 46% of the businesses surveyed said they expect to increase capital
spending and 38% said they would need to increase their credit, a sharp rise over the past two years.
"I've never seen anything quite like it," said Jim Glassman, the head economist at JPMorgan's commercial
bank. He said businesses are planning ambitious spending projects, especially on automation and
technology.                                                             

The good news inside all that is we're actually winning a lot of clients and we're extending facilities at a pace
beyond where we've been for a bunch of years," PNC Financial Services Group Inc.'s CEO William Demchak
said on a conference call with analysts. "The problem is they're just not drawing."

Wall Street's New Rivalry: Who Can See the Most People in Person --- Dealmakers get back on the road, and
JPMorgan awards points for meetings
```