charles_schwab_corporation,_the_2021_Q2

          EXCHANGE --- Business News: TD Ameritrade Wins Fight Over Order Handling ................................................. 2


          EXCHANGE---BusinessNews:TDAmeritradeWinsFightOverOrderHandling          

          EXCHANGE --- Business News: TD Ameritrade Wins Fight Over Order Handling
          A federal appeals court sided with TD Ameritrade in a legal battle over its practice of routing investors' stock
          orders to high-speed trading firms in exchange for payments.            
          The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on Friday rejected a proposed class-action lawsuit from
          investors who accused the brokerage of securities fraud. The suit claimed TD Ameritrade had failed to abide
          by its duty to seek the best execution for customer stock trades.       
          The decision by a three-judge panel reversed a 2018 ruling from a federal judge in Nebraska who had
          allowed the suit to go forward.                                         
          It came as the practice at the heart of the lawsuit -- called payment for order flow -- came under renewed
          scrutiny in a series of recent congressional hearings devoted to the wild, Reddit-fueled rally in GameStop
          Corp. stock earlier this year.                                          
          In Friday's opinion, the judges didn't weigh in on the substance of the plaintiffs' fraud allegations. Instead,
          they found it would be too difficult to determine which investors had been harmed by TD Ameritrade's
          order-routing practices.                                                
          Such a determination would require numerous individualized inquiries studying each trade over a period of
          several years, the judges said, rejecting an effort by the plaintiffs to use a giant data-crunching computer
          program to pinpoint who had been harmed.                                
                                                                                  
          "We conclude that despite advances in technology, individual evidence and inquiry is still required to
          determine economic loss for each class member," the judges wrote.       
          A spokeswoman for Charles Schwab Corp., which completed its acquisition of TD Ameritrade last year, said
          the firm was pleased with the court's decision. "High-quality trade executions and transparency are a
          cornerstone of our commitment to putting clients first, and our combined firm has a strong track record that
          consistently reflects that commitment," she said.                       
          A lawyer for the plaintiffs didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.