morgan_stanley_2021_Q2

EXCHANGE --- Morgan Stanley's Quarter Sullied by Archegos               
Morgan Stanley lost $911 million when Archegos Capital Management imploded last month, tarnishing a
record-setting quarter for the Wall Street firm.                        
The New York-based bank reaped big gains from the euphoric market conditions of early 2021. But record
performance across many of its businesses was offset by credit and trading losses Morgan Stanley booked
following a fire sale of more than $30 billion of stocks tied to Archegos, the family office run by former Tiger
Asia manager Bill Hwang.                                                
Archegos used billions of dollars it borrowed from banks to acquire big stakes in ViacomCBS Inc., Discovery
Inc. and a handful of other media and technology companies. To amass its positions, the fund entered into
derivative contracts with different banks, an arrangement that concealed the size of Archegos's total portfolio
from each lender. When some of its holdings started to lose value in March, Archegos was asked to post
additional collateral that it didn't have, prompting banks to seize and sell Archegos's assets at depressed
prices.                                                                 
More than two-thirds of Morgan Stanley's losses on Archegos resulted from collateral the bank sold at lower
values after Archegos was unable to repay its margin loans. The remainder of the Archegos losses came
when the bank closed out smaller positions the fund had that weren't subject to margin calls, Chief Executive
James Gorman said on a conference call with analysts Friday.            
While those positions weren't especially problematic for the bank, Mr. Gorman said, it chose not to take the
risk that they could later sour and lead to bigger losses. "I regard that decision as necessary and money well
spent," he said. "We didn't want this thing to be lingering."           
Archegos losses notwithstanding, Morgan Stanley rounded out an all-time great first quarter from the nation's
big banks. Asset prices rallied, millions of investors traded stocks with abandon and scores of technology
and special-purpose acquisition companies listed their shares publicly, creating an optimal environment for
banks' Wall Street divisions. On Wednesday, Morgan Stanley rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc. posted record
quarterly revenue and net income.                                       
Morgan Stanley on Friday reported quarterly profit of $4.1 billion, or $2.19 a share, on revenue of $15.7
billion. That beat the consensus estimates of analysts polled by FactSet by a wide margin, thanks in part to
the $5.8 billion it generated in stock- and bond-trading revenue, a 29% increase over last year's first quarter.
Morgan Stanley's E*Trade business also benefited from the burst of trading activity among individual
investors. The number of retail-trading clients at Morgan Stanley increased 7% from the end of 2020 to 7.2
million, and the average daily number of retail trades the company handled for the quarter exceeded 1.6
million.                                                                
Revenue at Morgan Stanley's wealth-management division, which includes E*Trade, increased 47% to
roughly $6 billion. The firm attracted a record $105 billion in net new assets, thanks to a 6% increase in both
assets in accounts overseen by Morgan Stanley financial advisers and in assets on its do-it-yourself investing
platforms such as E*Trade.                                              
In the early days of 2021, small-time investors who traded tips on internet forums like Reddit's WallStreetBets
catapulted shares in GameStop Corp. and other meme stocks to new heights. E*Trade handled more than 2
million trades on a few different days in February, Jonathan Pruzan, Morgan Stanley's finance chief, said in
an interview. But activity has cooled since.                            
In investment banking, fees more than doubled to $2.6 billion. Morgan Stanley earned a record $1.5 billion in
revenue from arranging initial public offerings and stock offerings, and its revenue from advising on deals
rose by a third to $480 million.                                        
It was Morgan Stanley's obligations to an investment-banking client that prevented it from acting sooner to
avoid losses on Archegos, Mr. Gorman said.                              
During the last week of March, the bank had a lead role arranging a sale of stock for ViacomCBS, a company
in which Archegos held a large stake. Morgan Stanley waited until that offering closed before it liquidated
Archegos's holdings of ViacomCBS, ceding first-mover advantage to Archegos's other lenders. Still, Morgan
Stanley's losses paled in comparison to the $4.7 billion hit that Credit Suisse Group AG booked related to the
Archegos meltdown.                                                      
                                                                                  

Investing In Funds & ETFs: A Quarterly Analysis --- Winners' Circle: The Lockdown Year's Top
Stock-Fund Managers --- In a chaotic time for mutual funds, Morgan Stanley's Dennis Lynch was No.
1, with a 273% surge                                                    
In late March of last year, as the world started to deal with the pandemic lockdowns, the U.S. stock market
had already hit "reset."                                                
A year later, as investors closed the books for the first quarter of 2021, they are looking back on a market
rebound that outdid even the post-financial-crisis recovery for both speed and magnitude.
How did the professional stock pickers at mutual funds do? Overall, no better than an index fund. But the best
of them blew away the field -- including a spectacular 273% gain for the No. 1 fund, the small-stock-focused
Morgan Stanley Inception Portfolio (MSSGX).                             
The actively managed U.S. stock funds that The Wall Street Journal tracks (based on Morningstar data) for
its quarterly Winners' Circle survey posted an average gain of 47% for the 12 months ended March 31. While
that trailed the S&P 500's 56% total return for the same period -- and fell short of recovering all the losses
investors incurred in the selloff early in 2020 -- the best-performing funds did far, far better.
That's a testimonial either to the pros' ability to anticipate the disruptive change that would benefit the
companies they add to their portfolios, or to their ability to tweak their holdings in response to the rapidly
changing market environment.                                            
A case in point: Dennis Lynch, head of the Counterpoint Global team at Morgan Stanley Investment
Management. Funds managed by Mr. Lynch and his team have routinely earned top honors in the Winners'
Circle. This time, it was their small-cap growth offering, Morgan Stanley Inception.
Mr. Lynch doesn't credit his fund's outperformance to any attempt to pick the bull market's new crop of
winners. Rather, his team has long emphasized identifying opportunities in the kinds of disruptive business
models that emerged in the "pandemic market."                           
Among them: Fastly Inc., whose edge-computing technologies helps improve the performance of
cloud-based apps, including online gaming that many Americans flocked to during lockdowns. "We prioritize
long-term thinking over knee-jerk reactions, especially during a period of turmoil and crisis like last year," Mr.
Lynch says.                                                             
As always, the Journal isn't recommending that investors view the quarterly ranking as a shopping list. Many
of the funds may have high fees, or be closed to new investors or otherwise inaccessible. But their managers
may still offer insight into what's happening in the market. The survey also includes only actively managed
mutual funds with a three-year record and more than $50 million in assets; it excludes sector funds,
quantitative funds and funds that employ leverage.