 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

General 

SHUSA is the parent holding company of SBNA, a national banking association, and owns approximately 76.3% &#32;(as of March 4, 2020) of SC, a specialized consumer finance company. SHUSA is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and the Bank's main office is in Wilmington, Delaware. SC is headquartered in Dallas, Texas. SHUSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Santander. SHUSA is also the parent company of Santander BanCorp, a holding company headquartered in Puerto Rico that offers a full range of financial services through its wholly-owned banking subsidiary, BSPR; SSLLC, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in Boston; BSI, a financial services company headquartered in Miami that offers a full range of banking services to foreign individuals and corporations based primarily in Latin America; SIS, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in New York providing services in investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities; and several other subsidiaries. SSLLC, SIS and another SHUSA subsidiary, Santander Asset Management, LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. 

&#160; 

The Bank's principal markets are in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern United States. At December 31, 2019 , the Bank had 588 &#32; branches and 2,231 &#32;ATMs across its footprint. The Bank uses its deposits, as well as other financing sources, to fund its loan and investment portfolios. The Bank earns interest income on its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, the Bank generates non-interest income from a number of sources, including deposit and loan services, sales of loans and investment securities, capital markets products and BOLI. The Bank's principal non-interest expenses include employee compensation and benefits, occupancy and facility-related costs, technology and other administrative expenses. The financial results of the Bank are affected by the economic environment, including interest rates and consumer and business confidence and spending, as well as the competitive conditions within the Bank's geographic footprint. 

SAF is SC&#8217;s primary vehicle brand, and is available as a finance option for automotive dealers across the United States. Since May 2013, under its agreement with FCA, SC has operated as FCA's preferred provider for consumer loans, leases, and dealer loans and provides services to FCA customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. 

On June 28, 2019, SC entered into an amendment to the Chrysler Agreement with FCA, which modified the Chrysler Agreement to, among other things, adjust certain performance metrics, exclusivity commitments and payment provisions. The amendment also terminated the previously disclosed tolling agreement dated July 11, 2018 between SC and FCA. 

Since its IPO, SC has been consolidated with the Company and Santander for financial reporting and accounting purposes. If the Company directly, owned 80% or more of SC Common Stock, SC could be consolidated with the Company for tax filing and capital planning purposes. Among other things, tax consolidation would (1) facilitate certain offsets of SC&#8217;s taxable income, (2) eliminate the double taxation of dividends from SC, and (3) trigger a release into SHUSA&#8217;s income of an approximately $414 million &#32;deferred tax liability recognized with respect to the GAAP basis vs. the income tax basis in the Company's ownership of SC. Tax consolidation would also allow for SC's net deferred tax liability to off-set the Company's net deferred tax asset, which would provide a regulatory capital benefit. In addition, SHUSA and Santander would recognize a larger percentage of SC's net income. SC Common Stock is listed for trading on the NYSE under the trading symbol "SC". 

SC's Relationship with FCA 

During 2019 , SC originated more than $12.8 billion of Chrysler Capital RICs and more than $8.5 billion of Chrysler Capital vehicle leases. 

The Chrysler Agreement requires, among other things, that SC bears the risk of loss on loans originated pursuant to the agreement, but also that FCA shares in any residual gains and losses from consumer leases. The agreement also requires that SC maintain at least $5.0 billion in funding available for dealer inventory financing and $4.5 billion of financing dedicated to FCA retail financing. In turn, FCA must provide designated minimum threshold percentages of its subvention business to SC. 

The Chrysler Agreement has a ten-year term, subject to early termination in certain circumstances, including the failure by either party to comply with certain of their ongoing obligations. These obligations include, for SC, meeting specified escalating penetration rates for the first five years and, for FCA, treating SC in a manner consistent with comparable OEMs` treatment of their captive providers, primarily regarding sales support. In addition, FCA may also terminate the agreement if, among other circumstances, (i) a person other than Santander or its affiliates or its other stockholders owns 20% or more of its common stock and Santander and its affiliates own fewer shares of common stock than such person, (ii) SC becomes, controls, or becomes controlled by, an OEM that competes with Chrysler, or (iii) certain of SC's credit facilities become impaired. 

In connection with entering into the Chrysler Agreement, SC paid FCA a $150 million upfront, nonrefundable fee on May 1, 2013. This fee is considered payment for future profits generated from the Chrysler Agreement and is being amortized into Other expenses over the expected ten-year term. In addition, in June 2019, in connection with the execution of the sixth amendment to the Chrysler Agreement, the Company paid a $60 million upfront fee to FCA. This fee is being amortized into Other expenses over the remaining term of the Chrysler Agreement. SC has also executed an equity option agreement with FCA, whereby FCA may elect to purchase, at any time during the term of the Chrysler Agreement, at fair market value, an equity participation of any percentage in the Chrysler Capital portion of SC's business. 

In June 2018, SC announced that it was in exploratory discussions with FCA regarding the future of FCA's U.S. finance operations. FCA announced its then intention to establish a captive U.S. auto finance unit and indicated that acquiring Chrysler Capital is one option it would consider. Subsequently, FCA decided not to establish a captive U.S. auto finance unit, and FCA and the Company entered into the amendment described above as of June 2019. The amendment revised previously established retail and lease share (penetration) expectations and clarified key factors associated with the revenue and risk share guidance referenced in the Chrysler Agreement. Pursuant to the amendment, SC made a one-time payment of $60 million to FCA. 

FCA has not delivered a notice to exercise its equity option, and the Company remains committed to the success of the Chrysler Capital business. 

IHC 

On July 1, 2016, due to both its global and U.S. non-branch total consolidated asset size, Santander became subject to both of the provisions of the FBO Final Rule discussed below under the "Regulatory Matters" section of Item 7, MD&#38;A, of this Form 10-K. As a result of this rule, ownership of several Santander subsidiaries, including Santander BanCorp, BSI, SIS and SSLLC, were transferred to the Company, which became a U.S. IHC. On July 1, 2017, an additional Santander subsidiary, SFS, a finance company located in Puerto Rico, was transferred to SHUSA, and on July 2, 2018, another Santander subsidiary, SAM, an investment adviser located in Puerto Rico, was transferred to SHUSA. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 

On October 21, 2019, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the stock of Santander BanCorp (the holding company that owns BSPR) for total consideration of approximately $1.1 billion , subject to adjustment based on the consolidated Santander BanCorp balance sheet at closing. At December 31, 2019, BSPR had 27 &#32;branches, approximately 1,000 &#32;employees, and total assets of approximately $6.0 billion . Among other conditions precedent to the closing, the transaction requires the Company to transfer all of BSPR's non-performing assets and the equity of SAM to the Company or a third party prior to closing. In addition, the transaction requires review and approval of various regulators, whose input is uncertain. Subject to satisfaction of the closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close in the middle of 2020. Once it becomes apparent that this transaction is more likely than not to receive regulatory approval, the Company will recognize a deferred tax liability of approximately $50 million for the unremitted earnings of Santander BanCorp. Completion of the transaction is not expected to result in any material gain or loss. 

Segments 

The Company's reportable segments are focused principally around the customers the Company serves. In 2019 , the Company has identified the following reportable segments: 

Consumer and Business Banking 

The Consumer and Business Banking segment includes the products and services provided to Bank consumer and business banking customers, including consumer deposit, business banking, residential mortgage, unsecured lending and investment services. This segment provides a wide range of products and services to consumers and business banking customers, including demand and interest-bearing demand deposit accounts, money market and savings accounts, CDs and retirement savings products. It also provides lending products such as credit cards, mortgages, home equity lines of credit, and business loans such as business lines of credit and commercial cards. In addition, the Bank provides investment services to its retail customers, including annuities, mutual funds, and insurance products. Santander Universities, which provides grants and scholarships to universities and colleges as a way to foster education through research, innovation and entrepreneurship, is the last component of this segment. 

C&#38;I 

The C&#38;I segment provides commercial lines, loans, letters of credit, receivables financing and deposits to medium- and large-sized commercial customers, as well as financing and deposits for government entities. This segment also provides niche product financing for specific industries. 

CRE &#38; VF 

The CRE &#38; VF segment provides CRE loans and multifamily loans to customers. This segment also provides commercial loans to dealers and financing for commercial equipment and vehicles. 

CIB 

The CIB segment serves the needs of global commercial and institutional customers by leveraging Santander's international footprint to provide financing and banking services to corporations with over $500 million &#32;in annual revenues. CIB also includes SIS, which provides services in investment banking, institutional sales, and trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities. CIB's offerings and strategy are based on Santander's local and global capabilities in wholesale banking. 

SC 

SC is a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SC&#8217;s primary business is indirectly originating RICs, principally through OEM-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. In conjunction with the Chrysler Agreement, SC offers a full spectrum of auto financing products and services to FCA customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. SC also originates vehicle loans through a web-based direct lending program, purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile, recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. In 2015, SC made a strategic decision to exit the personal lending market to focus on its core objectives of expanding the reach and realizing the value of its vehicle finance and servicers for others platforms. 

SC continues to hold the Bluestem portfolio, which had a carrying balance of approximately $1.0 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2019 , and remains a party to agreements with Bluestem that includes obligations, among other things, to purchase new advances originated by Bluestem and existing balances on accounts with new advances, for an initial term ending in April 2020 and renewable through April 2022 at Bluestem&#8217;s option. Both parties have the right to terminate this agreement upon written notice if certain events were to occur, including if there is a material adverse change in the financial condition of either party. Although a third party is being sought to assume these obligations, SC may not be successful in finding such a party, and Bluestem may not agree to the substitution. The Bluestem portfolio continues to be classified as held-for-sale. Significant lower-of-cost-or-market adjustments have been recorded on this portfolio and may continue as long as SC holds the portfolio, particularly due to the purchase commitments. There is a risk that material changes to SC&#8217;s relationship with Bluestem, or the loss or discontinuance of Bluestem&#8217;s business, would materially and adversely affect SC&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 9, 2020, Bluestem Brands, Inc., together with certain of its affiliates, filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. 

SC has entered into a number of intercompany agreements with the Bank. All intercompany revenue and fees between the Bank and SC are eliminated in the consolidated results of the Company. 

The financial results for each of these reportable segments are included in Note 23 &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in Item 7, "Line of Business Results" within the MD&#38;A section of this Form 10-K. These results have been presented based on the Company's management structure and management accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are specific to the Company and, as a result, the financial results of the Company's reportable segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial institutions. 

Other 

The Other category includes certain immaterial subsidiaries such as BSI, BSPR, SIS, SSLLC, and SFS, the unallocated interest expense on the Company's borrowings and other debt obligations and certain unallocated corporate income and indirect expenses. 

Subsidiaries 

SHUSA has two &#32;principal consolidated majority-owned subsidiaries at December 31, 2019 , the Bank and SC. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2019 , the Company had approximately 16,900 &#32;employees among itself and its subsidiaries. No Company employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Competition 

The Bank is subject to substantial competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in lending funds. The primary factors in competing for deposits include the ability to offer attractive rates, the convenience of office locations, the availability of alternate channels of distribution, and servicing capabilities. Direct competition for deposits comes primarily from other national, regional, and state banks, thrift institutions, and broker-dealers. Competition for deposits also comes from money market mutual funds, corporate and government securities, and credit unions. The primary factors driving competition for commercial and consumer loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, service levels and the range of products and services offered. Competition for originating loans normally comes from thrift institutions, national and state banks, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, finance companies, and insurance companies. 

The Company also provides investment management, broker-dealer and private banking services for its clients. We face competition in providing these services from trust companies, full-service banks, asset managers, investment advisors, securities dealers, mutual fund companies, and other financial institutions. 

SC is also subject to substantial competition, particularly in the automobile finance industry. SC competes on the pricing offered on loans and leases as well as the customer service SC provides automobile dealer customers. Pricing for these loans and leases is transparent because SC, along with its competitors, provides pricing and other terms and conditions for loans and leases through web-based credit application aggregation platforms. When dealers submit applications for consumers acquiring vehicles, they can compare SC's terms and conditions against its competitors&#8217; pricing. Dealer relationships are important in the automotive finance industry. Vehicle finance providers tailor product offerings to meet dealers' needs. SC's primary competitors in the vehicle finance space are national and regional banks, credit unions, independent financial institutions, and the affiliated finance companies of automotive manufacturers. 

Supervision and Regulation 

SHUSA is a BHC pursuant to the BHC Act. As a BHC, the Company is subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve. SBNA is a national bank chartered under the National Bank Act and subject to supervision by the OCC and a member of the FDIC. In addition, the CFPB has oversight over SHUSA, SBNA, and SHUSA&#8217;s other non-bank affiliates, including SC, for compliance with federal consumer protection laws. 

Refer to the "Regulatory Matters" section within Item 7- MD&#38;A for discussion of current regulatory matters impacting the Company. 

BHC Activity and Acquisition Restrictions 

Federal laws restrict the types of activities in which BHCs may engage, and subject them to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and policies. BHCs may engage in the business of banking and managing and controlling banks, as well as closely-related activities. 

The Company would be required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve if the Company were to acquire shares of any depository institution or any holding company of a depository institution, or any financial entity that is not a depository institution, such as a lending company. 

Control of the Company or the Bank 

Under the Change in Bank Control Act, individuals, corporations or other entities acquiring SHUSA's common stock may, alone or together with other investors, be deemed to control the Company and thereby the Bank. Ownership of more than 10% of SHUSA&#8217;s capital stock may be deemed to constitute &#8220;control&#8221; if certain other control factors are present. If deemed to control the Company, those persons or groups would be required to obtain the Federal Reserve's approval to acquire the Company&#8217;s common stock and could be subject to certain ongoing reporting procedures and restrictions under federal law and regulations. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies adopted certain operational and managerial standards for depository institutions, including internal audit system components, loan documentation requirements, asset growth parameters, information technology and data security practices, and compensation standards for officers, directors and employees. 

Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund, which is administered by the FDIC. The Bank's and BSPR's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions like the Bank and BSPR. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against banking institutions and may terminate an institution&#8217;s deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. 

The FDIC charges financial institutions deposit premium assessments to ensure it has reserves to cover deposits that are under FDIC-insured limits, which is currently $250,000 &#32;per depositor per ownership category for each ownership deposit account category. 

FDIC insurance premium expenses were $60.5 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2019 . 

Restrictions on Subsidiary Banking Institution Capital Distributions 

Under the FDIA, insured depository institutions must be classified in one of five defined tiers (well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized). Under OCC regulations, an institution is considered &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (iii) has a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) has a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and (v) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2019 , the Bank met the criteria to be classified as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; 

If capital levels fall to significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Pursuant to the FDIA and OCC regulations, institutions which are not categorized as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are restricted from making capital distributions, which include cash dividends, stock redemptions and repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the institution&#8217;s capital account. 

Federal banking laws, regulations and policies limit the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to the Company. The Bank must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend or make any other capital distribution if, after such dividend or distribution: (1) the Bank&#8217;s total distributions to the Company within that calendar year would exceed 100% of its net income during the year plus retained net income for the prior two years; (2) the Bank would not meet capital levels imposed by the OCC in connection with any order, or (3) the Bank is not adequately capitalized at the time. In addition, the OCC's prior approval is required if the OCC deems it to be in troubled condition or a problem institution. 

Any dividends declared and paid have the effect of reducing the Bank&#8217;s Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets and risk-based capital ratios. During 2019, 2018, and 2017, the Company paid cash dividends of $400.0 million , $410.0 million &#32;and $10.0 million , respectively. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Company paid cash dividends to preferred shareholders of zero , $11.0 million &#32;and $14.6 million , respectively. During the third quarter of 2018, SHUSA redeemed all of its outstanding preferred stock. 

Federal Reserve Regulation 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is required to maintain a reserve against its transaction accounts (primarily interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing checking accounts). Because reserves must generally be maintained in cash or in low-interest-bearing accounts, the effect of the reserve requirements is to reduce an institution&#8217;s asset yields. 

The amount of total reserve requirements at December 31, 2019 &#32;and 2018 &#32;were $534.6 million &#32;and $429.0 million , respectively. At December 31, 2019 &#32;and 2018 , the Company complied with these reserve requirements. 

FHLB System 

The FHLB system was created in 1932 and consists of 11 regional FHLBs. FHLBs are federally-chartered but privately owned institutions created by Congress. The Federal Housing Finance Agency is an agency of the federal government that is charged with overseeing the FHLBs. Each FHLB is owned by its member institutions. The primary purpose of the FHLBs is to provide funding to their members for making housing loans as well as for affordable housing and community development lending. FHLBs are generally able to make advances to their member institutions at interest rates that are lower than could otherwise be obtained by such institutions. As a member, the Bank is required to make minimum investments in FHLB stock based on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. The Bank is a member of and held investments in the FHLB of Pittsburgh which totaled $316.4 million &#32;as of December 31, 2019 , compared to $230.1 million &#32;at December 31, 2018 . The Bank utilizes advances from the FHLB to fund balance sheet growth, provide liquidity and for asset and liability management purposes. The Bank had access to advances with the FHLB of up to $17.3 billion &#32;at December 31, 2019 , and had outstanding advances of $7.0 billion &#32;or 41% &#32;of total availability at that date. The level of borrowing capacity the Bank has with the FHLB of Pittsburgh is contingent upon the level of qualified collateral the Bank holds at a given time. 

The Bank received $16.6 million &#32;and $6.6 million &#32;in dividends on its stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh in 2019 &#32;and 2018 , respectively. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

Several federal laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, and the USA Patriot Act require all financial institutions to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The USA Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S., imposed compliance and due diligence obligations, created criminal penalties, compelled the production of documents located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the U.S., and clarified the safe harbor from civil liability to clients. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations that further clarify the USA Patriot Act&#8217;s requirements and provide more specific guidance on their application. 

Financial Privacy 

Under the GLBA, financial institutions are required to disclose to their retail customers their policies and practices with respect to sharing nonpublic customer information with their affiliates and non-affiliates, how they maintain customer confidentiality, and how they secure customer information. Customers are required under the GLBA to be provided with the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of information sharing with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions. 

Environmental Laws 

Environmentally-related hazards are a source of high risk and potentially significant liability for financial institutions related to their loans. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution&#8217;s borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution&#8217;s loans to such borrowers, high environmental cleanup costs to the borrower affecting its ability to repay its loans, the subordination of any lien in favor of the institution to a state or federal lien securing clean-up costs, and liability to the institution for cleanup costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property or becomes involved in the management of the borrower. To minimize this risk, the Bank may require an environmental examination of, and reports with respect to, the property of any borrower or prospective borrower if circumstances affecting the property indicate a potential for contamination, taking into consideration the potential loss to the institution in relation to the burdens to the borrower. Such examination must be performed by an engineering firm experienced in environmental risk studies and acceptable to the institution, and the costs of such examinations and reports are the responsibility of the borrower. These costs may be substantial and may deter a prospective borrower from entering into a loan transaction with the Bank. The Company is not aware of any borrower which is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean-up proceeding or any other environmental matter that is likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of SHUSA or its subsidiaries. 

Securities and Investment Regulation 

The Company conducts its securities and investment business activities through its subsidiaries SIS and SSLLC. SIS and SSLLC are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and members of FINRA. SIS&#8217;s activities include investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed income securities. SIS, SSLLC and SAM are also registered investment advisers with the SEC, and BSI conducts certain securities transactions exempt from SEC registration on behalf of its clients. 

Written Agreements and Regulatory Actions 

See the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A and Note 22 &#32;of the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a description of current regulatory actions. 

Corporate Information 

All reports filed electronically by the Company with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Our filings are also accessible through our website at &#32; https://www.santanderus.com/us/investorshareholderrelations. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated herein and is provided for the information of the reader and are not intended to be active links. 

