 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following is Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of certain significant factors that have affected Fifth Third Bancorp&#8217;s (the &#8220;Bancorp&#8221; or &#8220;Fifth Third&#8221;) financial condition and results of operations during the periods included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are a part of this filing. Reference to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holding company and all consolidated subsidiaries. The Bancorp&#8217;s banking subsidiary is referred to as the Bank. 

OVERVIEW 

This overview of MD&#38;A highlights selected information in the financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the information that is important to you. For a more complete understanding of trends, events, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting policies and estimates, you should carefully read this entire document. Each of these items could have an impact on the Bancorp&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, refer to the Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms in this report for a list of terms included as a tool for the reader of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The abbreviations and acronyms identified therein are used throughout this MD&#38;A, as well as the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Net interest income, net interest margin, net interest rate spread and the efficiency ratio are presented in MD&#38;A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans and leases and securities held by the Bancorp that are not taxable for federal income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable amounts. The FTE basis for presenting net interest income is a non-GAAP measure. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s revenues are dependent on both net interest income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income provided 67% and 33% of total revenue, respectively. The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues within the U.S. from customers domiciled in the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries was immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2023. Changes in interest rates, credit quality, economic trends and the capital markets are primary factors that drive the performance of the Bancorp. As discussed later in the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A, risk identification, measurement, monitoring, control and reporting are important to the management of risk and to the financial performance and capital strength of the Bancorp. 

Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on assets such as loans, leases and securities, and interest expense incurred on liabilities such as deposits, other short-term borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by the general level of interest rates, the relative level of short-term and long-term interest rates, changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Generally, the rates of interest the Bancorp earns on its assets and pays on its liabilities are established for a period of time. The change in market interest rates over time exposes the Bancorp to interest rate risk through potential adverse changes to net interest income and financial position. The Bancorp manages this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting the composition of its assets and liabilities based on their payment streams and interest rates, the timing of their maturities and their sensitivity to changes in market interest rates. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into certain derivative transactions as part of its overall strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks. The Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of loss on its loan and lease portfolio as a result of changing expected cash flows caused by borrower credit events, such as loan defaults and inadequate collateral. 

Noninterest income is derived from commercial banking revenue, wealth and asset management revenue, service charges on deposits, card and processing revenue, mortgage banking net revenue, leasing business revenue, other noninterest income and net securities gains or losses. Noninterest expense includes compensation and benefits, technology and communications, net occupancy expense, equipment expense, marketing expense, leasing business expense, card and processing expense and other noninterest expense. 

Current Economic Conditions 

Economic growth was resilient in 2023 but managing inflation remained a top priority for FRB officials. In response to inflationary pressures, FRB officials raised benchmark interest rates aggressively during 2022 and 2023 and have signaled that they will continue to monitor the cumulative economic effects of their policy actions, including tighter credit conditions for households and businesses, when determining future monetary actions. Amidst the rapid pace of interest rate increases, several financial markets have experienced heightened volatility. While interest rates may remain elevated for a sustained period of time, the FRB moved to a more balanced monetary policy stance in the later months of 2023 in response to easing inflationary pressures. 

Changes in interest rates can affect numerous aspects of the Bancorp&#8217;s business and may impact the Bancorp&#8217;s future performance. If financial markets remain volatile, this may impact the future performance of various segments of the Bancorp&#8217;s business, in addition to the value of the Bancorp&#8217;s investment securities portfolio. The Bancorp continues to closely monitor the pace of inflation and the impacts of inflation on the broader market. 

The bank failures that have occurred since March 2023 generated significant market volatility and increased regulatory and market focus on the liquidity, asset-liability management and unrealized securities losses of banks. In response to these failures, the U.S. banking agencies 

50 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

have proposed a number of regulatory amendments to improve the stability of U.S. banking institutions. Among these amendments, in November 2023, the FDIC issued a final rule for a special deposit insurance assessment on banking organizations with greater than $5 billion in assets to recover the costs associated with protecting uninsured depositors following these closures. The Bancorp&#8217;s estimate of its allocated share of the special assessment under the provisions of the final rule was $224 million, which was recognized in earnings upon issuance of the final rule in November 2023 and will be paid to the FDIC over an anticipated total of eight quarterly assessment periods beginning with the first quarter of 2024. The estimate of the cost associated with protecting the uninsured depositors will continue to be subject to periodic adjustment until the final loss is determined upon the termination of the receiverships by the FDIC. 

For more information on current economic conditions, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A. Additionally, refer to the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management and Liquidity Risk Management subsections of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A for additional information about the Bancorp&#8217;s interest rate risk management and liquidity risk management activities. 

Proposed Updates to Regulatory Requirements for Capital and Long-Term Debt 

On July 27, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies released a notice of proposed rulemaking to revise the Basel III Capital Rules, which would modify its existing risk-based capital framework for large banks and introduce a new framework that implements international capital standards. The proposed rulemaking would increase capital requirements applicable to banking organizations with total assets of $100 billion or more, including Fifth Third, and would align the calculation of regulatory capital and the calculation of risk-weighted assets across large banking organizations. As proposed, the rules would be effective for the Bancorp on July 1, 2025 and phased in over a three-year transition period. The Bancorp is in the process of evaluating this proposed rulemaking and assessing its potential impact. 

On August 29, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to require that certain banking organizations with $100 billion or more in consolidated assets, including Fifth Third, comply with certain long-term debt requirements at the holding company and insured depository institution levels. These proposed requirements are intended to absorb losses and recapitalize the insured depository institution in the event of the failure of a banking organization. As proposed, the rules would be phased in over a three-year period after their effective date. The Bancorp is in the process of evaluating this proposed rulemaking and assessing its potential impact. 

LIBOR Transition 

In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the &#8220;FCA&#8221;), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA would stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. 

In the United States, SOFR was identified as the preferred alternative rate. SOFR is a measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, and is based on directly observable U.S. Treasury-backed repurchase transactions. As a secured borrowing rate, SOFR may not exhibit similar behavior in response to market and economic volatility as LIBOR, which was an unsecured rate. 

As of December 31, 2023, substantially all contracts have transitioned to alternative reference rates. Refer to Note 17 and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about certain exposures which were transitioned to an alternative reference rate. 

Senior Notes Offering 

On July 27, 2023, the Bancorp issued and sold $1.25 billion of fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes which will mature on July 27, 2029. The senior notes bear interest at a rate of 6.339% per annum to, but excluding, July 27, 2028. From, and including, July 27, 2028 until, but excluding, July 27, 2029, the senior notes will bear interest at a rate of compounded SOFR plus 2.340%. The senior notes are redeemable in whole at par plus accrued and unpaid interest one year prior to their maturity date, or may be wholly or partially redeemed on or after 30 days prior to maturity. Additionally, the senior notes are redeemable at the Bancorp&#8217;s option, in whole or in part, beginning 180 days after the issue date and prior to July 27, 2028, at the greater of: (a) the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes being redeemed, or (b) the discounted present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest that would be due if the senior notes being redeemed matured on July 27, 2028. Refer to Note 32 of the Notes to Consolidated Statements for information on a subsequent event related to long-term debt. 

Automobile Loan Securitization 

In a securitization transaction that occurred in August of 2023, the Bancorp transferred $1.74 billion in aggregate automobile loans to a bankruptcy remote trust which subsequently issued approximately $1.58 billion of asset-backed notes, of which approximately $79 million were retained by the Bancorp, resulting in approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding notes included in long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As discussed in Note 12, the bankruptcy remote trust was deemed to be a VIE and the Bancorp, as the primary beneficiary, consolidated the VIE. The third-party holders of the asset-backed notes do not have recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp. 

Accelerated Share Repurchase Transaction 

During the first quarter of 2023, the Bancorp entered into and settled an accelerated share repurchase transaction. As part of the transaction, the Bancorp entered into a forward contract in which the final number of shares delivered at settlement was based generally on a discount to 

51 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

the average daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp&#8217;s common stock during the term of the repurchase agreement. Refer to Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on share repurchase activity. 

Key Performance Indicators 

The Bancorp, as a banking institution, utilizes various key indicators of financial condition and operating results in managing and monitoring the performance of the business. In addition to traditional financial metrics, such as revenue and expense trends, the Bancorp monitors other financial measures that assist in evaluating growth trends, capital strength and operational efficiencies. The Bancorp analyzes these key performance indicators against its past performance, its forecasted performance and with the performance of its peer banking institutions. These indicators may change from time to time as the operating environment and businesses change. 

The following are some of the key indicators used by management to assess the Bancorp&#8217;s business performance, including those which are considered in the Bancorp&#8217;s compensation programs: 

&#8226; CET1 Capital Ratio: CET1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets as defined by the Basel III standardized approach to risk-weighting of assets 

&#8226; Return on Average Tangible Common Equity (non-GAAP): Tangible net income available to common shareholders divided by average tangible common equity 

&#8226; Return on Average Common Equity, Excluding AOCI (non-GAAP): Net income available to common shareholders divided by total equity, excluding AOCI and preferred stock 

&#8226; Net Interest Margin (non-GAAP): Net interest income on an FTE basis divided by average interest-earning assets 

&#8226; Efficiency Ratio (non-GAAP): Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income 

&#8226; Earnings Per Share, Diluted: Net income allocated to common shareholders divided by average common shares outstanding after the effect of dilutive stock-based awards 

&#8226; Nonperforming Portfolio Assets Ratio: Nonperforming portfolio assets divided by portfolio loans and leases and OREO 

&#8226; Net Charge-off Ratio: Net losses charged-off divided by average portfolio loans and leases 

&#8226; Return on Average Assets: Net income divided by average assets 

&#8226; Loan-to-Deposit Ratio: Total loans divided by total deposits 

&#8226; Household Growth: Change in the number of consumer households with retail relationship-based checking accounts 

The list of indicators above is intended to summarize some of the most important metrics utilized by management in evaluating the Bancorp&#8217;s performance and does not represent an all-inclusive list of all performance measures that may be considered relevant or important to management or investors. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 1: Earnings Summary For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021 Income Statement Data Net interest income (U.S. GAAP) $ 5,827 &#160; 5,609 4,770 

Net interest income (FTE) (a)(b) 

5,852 &#160; 5,625 4,782 Noninterest income 2,881 &#160; 2,766 3,118 Total revenue (FTE) (a)(b) 

8,733 &#160; 8,391 7,900 Provision for (benefit from) credit losses 515 &#160; 563 (377) Noninterest expense 5,205 &#160; 4,719 4,748 Net income 2,349 &#160; 2,446 2,770 Net income available to common shareholders 2,212 &#160; 2,330 2,659 Common Share Data Earnings per share - basic $ 3.23 &#160; 3.38 3.78 

Earnings per share - diluted 

3.22 &#160; 3.35 3.73 Cash dividends declared per common share 1.36 &#160; 1.26 1.14 Book value per share 25.04 &#160; 22.26 29.43 Market value per share 34.49 &#160; 32.81 43.55 Financial Ratios Return on average assets 1.13 &#160; % 1.18 1.34 Return on average common equity 14.2 &#160; 13.7 12.8 

Return on average tangible common equity (b) 

21.3 &#160; 19.7 16.6 Dividend payout 42.1 &#160; 37.3 30.2 ##TABLE_END

(a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustments were $25, $16 and $12 for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

(b) These are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A. 

52 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Earnings Summary 

The Bancorp&#8217;s net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $2.2 billion, or $3.22 per diluted share, which was net of $137 million in preferred stock dividends. The Bancorp&#8217;s net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $2.3 billion, or $3.35 per diluted share, which was net of $116 million in preferred stock dividends. 

Net interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was $5.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of $227 million compared to the prior year. Net interest income benefited from increases in market interest rates, resulting in increases in yields on average loans and leases, average other short-term investments and average taxable securities for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Net interest income also benefited from increases in average other consumer loans and average taxable securities for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in rates paid on average interest-bearing core deposits, average long-term debt and average FHLB advances for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Net interest income was also negatively impacted by deposit balance migration into higher yielding products, resulting in a decrease in the average balances of demand deposits and an increase in the average balances of interest-bearing core deposits for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Additionally, net interest income was negatively impacted by increases in the average balances of CDs over $250,000 and long-term debt for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Net interest margin on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 3.05% for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 3.02% for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

The provision for credit losses was $515 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $563 million in the prior year. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily driven by factors which resulted in an increase to the ACL during the year, including changes in product mix, the impacts of qualitative factors and increases in reserves for individually evaluated loans, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the end-of-period loan and lease balances. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by factors which resulted in an increase to the ACL during the year, including growth in loan and lease balances and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast, partially offset by the impacts of qualitative factors. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2022 also included the initial recognition of provision for credit losses on loans acquired as part of a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. Net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases were 0.32% and 0.19% for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. At December 31, 2023, nonperforming portfolio assets as a percent of portfolio loans and leases and OREO increased to 0.59% compared to 0.44% at December 31, 2022. For further discussion on credit quality, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A as well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Noninterest income increased $115 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to the recognition of net securities gains in the current year compared to net securities losses in the prior year, as well as increases in commercial banking revenue and mortgage banking net revenue, partially offset by decreases in other noninterest income and leasing business revenue. 

Noninterest expense increased $486 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in other noninterest expense, compensation and benefits expense, technology and communications expense, net occupancy expense and marketing expense, partially offset by a decrease in leasing business expense. 

For more information on net interest income, provision for credit losses, noninterest income and noninterest expense, refer to the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A. 

Capital Summary 

The Bancorp calculated its regulatory capital ratios under the Basel III standardized approach to risk-weighting of assets and pursuant to the five-year transition provision option to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, the Bancorp&#8217;s capital ratios, as defined by the U.S. banking agencies, were: 

&#8226; CET1 capital ratio: 10.29%; 

&#8226; Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: 11.59%; 

&#8226; Total risk-based capital ratio: 13.72%; 

&#8226; Leverage ratio: 8.73% 

53 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 

The following are non-GAAP financial measures which provide useful insight to the reader of the Consolidated Financial Statements but should be supplemental to primary U.S. GAAP measures and should not be read in isolation or relied upon as a substitute for the primary U.S. GAAP measures. The Bancorp encourages readers to consider its Consolidated Financial Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. 

The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans and leases and securities held by the Bancorp that are not taxable for federal income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable amounts. 

The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures of net interest income on an FTE basis, interest income on an FTE basis, net interest margin, net interest rate spread and the efficiency ratio to U.S. GAAP: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 2: Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Financial Measures and Ratios on an FTE basis For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net interest income (U.S. GAAP) $ 5,827 &#160; 5,609 4,770 Add: FTE adjustment 25 &#160; 16 12 Net interest income on an FTE basis (1) $ 5,852 &#160; 5,625 4,782 Interest income (U.S. GAAP) $ 9,760 &#160; 6,587 5,211 Add: FTE adjustment 25 &#160; 16 12 Interest income on an FTE basis (2) $ 9,785 &#160; 6,603 5,223 Interest expense (3) $ 3,933 &#160; 978 441 Noninterest income (4) 2,881 &#160; 2,766 3,118 Noninterest expense (5) 5,205 &#160; 4,719 4,748 Average interest-earning assets (6) 191,743 &#160; 186,326 184,378 Average interest-bearing liabilities (7) 137,592 &#160; 119,624 115,469 Ratios: Net interest margin on an FTE basis (1) / (6) 3.05 &#160; % 3.02 2.59 Net interest rate spread on an FTE basis ((2) / (6)) - ((3) / (7)) 2.24 &#160; 2.72 2.45 Efficiency ratio on an FTE basis (5) / ((1) + (4)) 59.6 &#160; 56.2 60.1 ##TABLE_END

The Bancorp believes return on average tangible common equity is an important measure for comparative purposes with other financial institutions, but is not defined under U.S. GAAP, and therefore is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. This measure is useful for evaluating the performance of a business as it calculates the return available to common shareholders without the impact of intangible assets and their related amortization. 

The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of return on average tangible common equity to U.S. GAAP: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 3: Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Return on Average Tangible Common Equity For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Net income available to common shareholders (U.S. GAAP) $ 2,212 &#160; 2,330 2,659 Add: Intangible amortization, net of tax 34 &#160; 37 34 Tangible net income available to common shareholders (1) $ 2,246 &#160; 2,367 2,693 Average Bancorp shareholders&#8217; equity (U.S. GAAP) $ 17,704 &#160; 19,080 22,812 Less: Average preferred stock 2,116 &#160; 2,116 2,116 Average goodwill 4,918 &#160; 4,779 4,366 Average intangible assets 146 &#160; 168 142 Average tangible common equity (2) $ 10,524 &#160; 12,017 16,188 Return on average tangible common equity (1) / (2) 21.3 &#160; % 19.7 16.6 ##TABLE_END

The Bancorp considers various measures when evaluating capital utilization and adequacy, including the tangible equity ratio and tangible common equity ratio, in addition to capital ratios defined by the U.S. banking agencies. These calculations are intended to complement the capital ratios defined by the U.S. banking agencies for both absolute and comparative purposes. As U.S. GAAP does not include capital ratio 

54 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

measures, the Bancorp believes there are no comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures to these ratios. These ratios are not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations and, therefore, are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures. 

The following table reconciles non-GAAP capital ratios to U.S. GAAP: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 4: Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Capital Ratios As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Total Bancorp Shareholders&#8217; Equity (U.S. GAAP) $ 19,172 &#160; 17,327 Less: Preferred stock 2,116 &#160; 2,116 Goodwill 4,919 &#160; 4,915 Intangible assets 125 &#160; 169 AOCI (4,487) (5,110) Tangible common equity, excluding AOCI (1) 16,499 &#160; 15,237 Add: Preferred stock 2,116 &#160; 2,116 Tangible equity (2) $ 18,615 &#160; 17,353 Total Assets (U.S. GAAP) $ 214,574 &#160; 207,452 Less: Goodwill 4,919 &#160; 4,915 Intangible assets 125 &#160; 169 AOCI, before tax (5,680) (6,468) Tangible assets, excluding AOCI (3) $ 215,210 &#160; 208,836 Ratios: Tangible equity as a percentage of tangible assets (2) / (3) 8.65 &#160; % 8.31 Tangible common equity as a percentage of tangible assets (1) / (3) 7.67 &#160; 7.30 ##TABLE_END &#160; 

55 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides a discussion of the significant new accounting standards applicable to the Bancorp during 2023 and the expected impact of significant accounting standards issued, but not yet required to be adopted. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The Bancorp&#8217;s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, economic assumptions and estimates that may materially affect the Bancorp&#8217;s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Bancorp&#8217;s critical accounting policies include the accounting for the ALLL, reserve for unfunded commitments, valuation of servicing rights, fair value measurements, goodwill and legal contingencies. 

As further discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 1, 2023, the Bancorp adopted ASU 2022-02 (&#8220;Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures&#8221;). In conjunction with the adoption of this amended guidance, the Bancorp has revised its Critical Accounting Policies for the ALLL as described below. The accounting policy for the ALLL for periods prior to January 1, 2023 is provided in the Critical Accounting Policies Applicable Prior to January 1, 2023 section below. There have been no other material changes to the valuation techniques or models described below during the year ended December 31, 2023. 

ALLL 

The Bancorp disaggregates its portfolio loans and leases into portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The Bancorp&#8217;s portfolio segments include commercial, residential mortgage and consumer. The Bancorp further disaggregates its portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. For an analysis of the Bancorp&#8217;s ALLL by portfolio segment and credit quality information by class, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb the amount of credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the remaining contractual terms of the related loans and leases. Contractual terms are adjusted for expected prepayments but are not extended for expected extensions, renewals or modifications except in circumstances where extension or renewal options are embedded in the original contract and not unconditionally cancellable by the Bancorp. Accrued interest receivable on loans is presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements as a component of other assets. When accrued interest is deemed to be uncollectible (typically when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status), interest income is reversed. The Bancorp follows established policies for placing loans on nonaccrual status, so uncollectible accrued interest receivable is reversed in a timely manner. As a result, the Bancorp has elected not to measure a reserve for accrued interest receivable as part of its ALLL. However, the Bancorp does record a reserve for the portion of accrued interest receivable that it expects to be uncollectible. For additional information on the Bancorp&#8217;s accounting policies related to nonaccrual loans and leases, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. The ALLL is maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the collectability of loans and leases, including historical credit loss experience, current and forecasted market and economic conditions and consideration of various qualitative factors that, in management&#8217;s judgment, deserve consideration in estimating expected credit losses. Provisions for credit losses are recorded for the amounts necessary to adjust the ALLL to the Bancorp&#8217;s current estimate of expected credit losses on portfolio loans and leases. The Bancorp&#8217;s strategy for credit risk management includes a combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below legal lending limits and conservative underwriting, documentation and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and quarterly management reviews of large credit exposures and loans experiencing deterioration of credit quality. Refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A for additional information. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s methodology for determining the ALLL requires significant management judgment and includes an estimate of expected credit losses on a collective basis for groups of loans and leases with similar risk characteristics and specific allowances for loans and leases which are individually evaluated. 

Larger commercial loans and leases included within aggregate borrower relationship balances exceeding $1 million on nonaccrual status are individually evaluated for an ALLL. The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of any guarantees, the guarantor&#8217;s liquidity and willingness to cooperate, the loan or lease structure (including modifications, if any) and other factors when determining the amount of the ALLL. Other factors may include the borrower&#8217;s susceptibility to risks presented by the forecasted macroeconomic environment, the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the borrower and the Bancorp&#8217;s evaluation of the borrower&#8217;s management. Significant management judgment is required when evaluating which of these factors are most relevant in individual circumstances, and when estimating the amount of expected credit losses based on those factors. When loans and leases are individually evaluated, allowances are determined based on management&#8217;s estimate of the borrower&#8217;s ability to repay the loan or lease given the availability of collateral and other sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options available to the Bancorp. Allowances for individually evaluated loans and leases that are collateral-dependent are measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Allowances for individually evaluated loans and leases that are not collateral-dependent are typically measured based on the present value of expected cash flows of the loan or lease, discounted at its 

56 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

effective interest rate. Specific allowances on individually evaluated commercial loans and leases are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. 

The Bancorp considers loans to be collateral-dependent when it becomes probable that repayment of the loan will be provided through the sale or operation of the collateral instead of from payments made by the borrower. The expected credit losses for these loans are typically estimated based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Specific allowances on individually evaluated consumer and residential mortgage loans are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. 

Expected credit losses are estimated on a collective basis for loans and leases that are not individually evaluated. For collectively evaluated loans and leases, the Bancorp uses models to forecast expected credit losses based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers prepayments and, for loans with available credit, expected utilization rates. The Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models were developed based on historical credit loss experience and observations of migration patterns for various credit risk characteristics (such as internal credit risk ratings, external credit ratings or scores, delinquency status, loan-to-value trends, etc.) over time, with those observations evaluated in the context of concurrent macroeconomic conditions. The Bancorp developed its models from historical observations capturing a full economic cycle when possible. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models consider historical credit loss experience, current market and economic conditions, and forecasted changes in market and economic conditions if such forecasts are considered reasonable and supportable. Generally, the Bancorp considers its forecasts to be reasonable and supportable for a period of up to three years from the estimation date. For periods beyond the reasonable and supportable forecast period, expected credit losses are estimated by reverting to historical loss information without adjustment for changes in economic conditions. This reversion is phased in over a two-year period. The Bancorp evaluates the length of its reasonable and supportable forecast period, its reversion period and reversion methodology at least annually, or more often if warranted by economic conditions or other circumstances. 

The Bancorp also considers qualitative factors in determining the ALLL. These considerations inherently require significant management judgment to determine the appropriate factors to be considered and the extent of their impact on the ALLL estimate. Qualitative factors are used to capture characteristics in the portfolio that impact expected credit losses but that are not fully captured within the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models. These include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, lending and risk management personnel and results of internal audit and quality control reviews. These may also include adjustments, when deemed necessary, for specific idiosyncratic risks such as geopolitical events, natural disasters and their effects on regional borrowers and changes in product structures. Qualitative factors may also be used to address the impacts of unforeseen events on key inputs and assumptions within the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models, such as the reasonable and supportable forecast period, changes to historical loss information or changes to the reversion period or methodology. When evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is also given to regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated effect that changing economic conditions may have on the Bancorp&#8217;s customers. 

Overall, the collective evaluation process requires significant management judgment when determining the estimation methodology and inputs into the models, as well as in evaluating the reasonableness of the modeled results and the appropriateness of qualitative adjustments. The Bancorp&#8217;s forecasts of market and economic conditions and the internal risk ratings assigned to loans and leases in the commercial portfolio segment are examples of inputs to the expected credit loss models that require significant management judgment. These inputs have the potential to drive significant variability in the resulting ALLL. 

Refer to the Allowance for Credit Losses subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A for a discussion on the Bancorp&#8217;s ALLL sensitivity analysis. 

Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 

The reserve for unfunded commitments is maintained at a level believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated expected credit losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon expected credit losses over the remaining contractual life of the commitments, taking into consideration the current funded balance and estimated exposure over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. This process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp&#8217;s ALLL, as previously discussed. Net adjustments to the reserve for unfunded commitments are included in the provision for credit losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Valuation of Servicing Rights 

When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or individual loan sales in accordance with its investment policies, it often obtains servicing rights. The Bancorp may also purchase servicing rights. The Bancorp has elected to measure all existing classes of its residential mortgage servicing rights at fair value at each reporting date with changes in the fair value of servicing rights reported in earnings in the period in which the changes occur. Servicing rights are valued using internal OAS models. Significant management judgment is necessary to identify key economic assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the servicing rights including the prepayment speeds of the underlying 

57 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

loans, the weighted-average life, the OAS and the weighted-average coupon rate, as applicable. The primary risk of material changes to the value of the servicing rights resides in the potential volatility in the economic assumptions used, particularly the prepayment speeds. In order to assist in the assessment of the fair value of servicing rights, the Bancorp obtains external valuations of the servicing rights portfolio from third parties and participates in peer surveys that provide additional confirmation of the reasonableness of the key assumptions utilized in the internal OAS model. For additional information on servicing rights, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Fair Value Measurements 

The Bancorp measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Bancorp employs various valuation approaches to measure fair value including the market, income and cost approaches. The market approach uses prices or relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The income approach involves discounting future amounts to a single present amount and is based on current market expectations about those future amounts. The cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 

U.S. GAAP establishes a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A financial instrument&#8217;s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the instrument&#8217;s fair value measurement. For additional information on the fair value hierarchy and fair value measurements, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s fair value measurements involve various valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp monitors the fair values of significant assets and liabilities using a variety of methods including the evaluation of pricing runs and exception reports based on certain analytical criteria, comparison to previous trades and overall review and assessments for reasonableness. The level of management judgment necessary to determine fair value varies based upon the methods used in the determination of fair value. Financial instruments that are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets (Level 1) require minimal judgment. The valuation of financial instruments when quoted market prices are not available (Levels 2 and 3) may require significant management judgment to assess whether quoted prices for similar instruments exist, the impact of changing market conditions including reducing liquidity in the capital markets and the use of estimates surrounding significant unobservable inputs. Table 5 provides a summary of the fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis and the amounts of financial instruments valued using Level 3 inputs. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 5: Fair Value Summary As of ($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Balance Level 3 Balance Level 3 Assets carried at fair value $ 56,073 &#160; 1,859 &#160; 57,002 1,876 As a percent of total assets 26 &#160; % 1 &#160; 27 1 Liabilities carried at fair value $ 3,106 &#160; 174 &#160; 4,130 203 As a percent of total liabilities 2 &#160; % &#8212; &#160; 2 &#8212; ##TABLE_END

Refer to Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on fair value measurements including a description of the valuation methodologies used for significant financial instruments. 

Goodwill 

Business combinations entered into by the Bancorp typically include the recognition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which the Bancorp performs as of September 30 each year, and more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. 

Impairment exists when a reporting unit&#8217;s carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In this qualitative assessment, the Bancorp evaluates events and circumstances which may include, but are not limited to, the general economic environment, banking industry and market conditions, the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the performance of the Bancorp&#8217;s common stock, the key financial performance metrics of the Bancorp&#8217;s reporting units and events affecting the reporting units to determine if it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the quantitative impairment test is required or the decision to bypass the qualitative assessment is elected, the Bancorp performs the goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. A recognized impairment loss cannot be reversed in future periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit subsequently recovers. 

58 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As none of the Bancorp&#8217;s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the Bancorp&#8217;s stock price. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. The determination of the fair value of the Bancorp&#8217;s reporting units includes both an income-based approach and a market-based approach. The income-based approach utilizes the reporting unit&#8217;s forecasted cash flows (including a terminal value approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the forecast) and the reporting unit&#8217;s estimated cost of equity as the discount rate. Significant management judgment is necessary in the preparation of each reporting unit&#8217;s forecasted cash flows surrounding expectations for earnings projections, growth and credit loss expectations and actual results may differ from forecasted results. Additionally, the Bancorp determines its market capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the Bancorp&#8217;s stock during the month including the measurement date, incorporating an additional control premium, and compares this market-based fair value measurement to the aggregate fair value of the Bancorp&#8217;s reporting units in order to corroborate the results of the income approach. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp&#8217;s goodwill. 

Legal Contingencies 

The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous claims and lawsuits as well as threatened or potential actions or claims concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business activities. The outcome of claims or litigation and the timing of ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict and significant judgment may be required in the determination of both the probability of loss and whether the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. The Bancorp&#8217;s estimates are subjective and are based on the status of legal and regulatory proceedings, the merit of the Bancorp&#8217;s defenses and consultation with internal and external legal counsel. An accrual for a potential litigation loss is established when information related to the loss contingency indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp&#8217;s legal proceedings. 

Critical Accounting Policies Applicable Prior to January 1, 2023 

The following paragraphs describe the portions of the Bancorp&#8217;s critical accounting policies that were applicable prior to January 1, 2023 but were updated in conjunction with the adoption of ASU 2022-02 on January 1, 2023. The following paragraphs do not include the portions of the respective policies that were not affected by the adoption of this new accounting standard. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

ALLL 

The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb the amount of credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the remaining contractual terms of the related loans and leases. Contractual terms are adjusted for expected prepayments but are not extended for expected extensions, renewals or modifications except in circumstances where the Bancorp reasonably expects to execute a TDR with the borrower or where certain extension or renewal options are embedded in the original contract and not unconditionally cancellable by the Bancorp. Accrued interest receivable on loans is presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements as a component of other assets. When accrued interest is deemed to be uncollectible (typically when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status), interest income is reversed. The Bancorp follows established policies for placing loans on nonaccrual status, so uncollectible accrued interest receivable is reversed in a timely manner. As a result, the Bancorp has elected not to measure a reserve for accrued interest receivable as part of its ALLL. However, the Bancorp does record a reserve for the portion of accrued interest receivable that it expects to be uncollectible. 

Larger commercial loans and leases included within aggregate borrower relationship balances exceeding $1 million that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been modified in a TDR, are individually evaluated for an ALLL. The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of any guarantees, the guarantor&#8217;s liquidity and willingness to cooperate, the loan or lease structure and other factors when determining the amount of the ALLL. Other factors may include the borrower&#8217;s susceptibility to risks presented by the forecasted macroeconomic environment, the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the borrower and the Bancorp&#8217;s evaluation of the borrower&#8217;s management. Significant management judgment is required when evaluating which of these factors are most relevant in individual circumstances, and when estimating the amount of expected credit losses based on those factors. When loans and leases are individually evaluated, allowances are determined based on management&#8217;s estimate of the borrower&#8217;s ability to repay the loan or lease given the availability of collateral and other sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options available to the Bancorp. Allowances for individually evaluated loans and leases that are collateral-dependent are measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Individually evaluated loans and leases that are not collateral-dependent are measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan&#8217;s effective interest rate. The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Specific allowances on individually evaluated commercial loans and leases, including TDRs, are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. 

Consumer and residential mortgage loans that have been modified in a TDR are individually evaluated for an ALLL. Allowances for individually evaluated loans that are collateral-dependent are typically measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Individually evaluated loans that are not collateral-dependent are measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan&#8217;s effective interest rate and a modeled expected credit loss amount. The Bancorp 

59 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

evaluates the collectability of both principal and interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Specific allowances on individually evaluated consumer and residential mortgage loans are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. 

Expected credit losses are estimated on a collective basis for loans and leases that are not individually evaluated. These include commercial loans and leases that do not meet the criteria for individual evaluation as well as homogeneous loans in the residential mortgage and consumer portfolio segments. For collectively evaluated loans and leases, the Bancorp uses models to forecast expected credit losses based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers prepayments and, for loans with available credit, expected utilization rates. The Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models were developed based on historical credit loss experience and observations of migration patterns for various credit risk characteristics (such as internal credit risk grades, external credit ratings or scores, delinquency status, loan-to-value trends, etc.) over time, with those observations evaluated in the context of concurrent macroeconomic conditions. The Bancorp developed its models from historical observations capturing a full economic cycle when possible. 

Overall, the collective evaluation process requires significant management judgment when determining the estimation methodology and inputs into the models, as well as in evaluating the reasonableness of the modeled results and the appropriateness of qualitative adjustments. The Bancorp&#8217;s forecasts of market and economic conditions and the internal risk grades assigned to loans and leases in the commercial portfolio segment are examples of inputs to the expected credit loss models that require significant management judgment. These inputs have the potential to drive significant variability in the resulting ALLL. 

60 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS 

Net Interest Income 

Net interest income is the interest earned on loans and leases (including yield-related fees), securities and other short-term investments less the interest incurred on core deposits and wholesale funding (including CDs over $250,000, federal funds purchased, other short-term borrowings and long-term debt). The net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by average interest-earning assets. Net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by noninterest-bearing liabilities, or free funding, such as demand deposits or shareholders&#8217; equity. 

Tables 6 and 7 present the components of net interest income, net interest margin and net interest rate spread for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, as well as the relative impact of changes in the average balance sheet and changes in interest rates on net interest income. Nonaccrual loans and leases and loans and leases held for sale have been included in the average loan and lease balances. Average outstanding securities balances are based on amortized cost with any unrealized gains or losses included in average other assets. 

Net interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was $5.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of $227 million compared to the prior year. Net interest income benefited from increases in market interest rates, resulting in increases in yields of 189 bps on average loans and leases, 456 bps on average other short-term investments and 23 bps on average taxable securities for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Net interest income also benefited from increases in average other consumer loans and average taxable securities of $2.5 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in rates paid on average interest-bearing core deposits of 198 bps, average long-term debt of 170 bps and average FHLB advances of 248 bps for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Net interest income was also negatively impacted by deposit balance migration into higher yielding products, resulting in a decrease in the average balances of demand deposits of $14.0 billion and an increase in the average balances of interest-bearing core deposits of $11.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Additionally, net interest income was negatively impacted by increases in the average balances of CDs over $250,000 of $3.6 billion and long-term debt of $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Interest income recognized from PPP loans decreased to $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $43 million for the prior year. 

Net interest rate spread on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 2.24% during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 2.72% during the year ended December 31, 2022. Rates paid on average interest-bearing liabilities increased 204 bps, partially offset by a 156 bps increase in yields on average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Net interest margin on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 3.05% for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 3.02% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2023 was positively impacted by the benefit of higher market interest rates on interest-earning assets, growth in average balances of loans and leases and average investment portfolio balances, partially offset by the migration of average balances of deposits from demand deposits to interest-bearing deposits and increases in rates paid on and balances of average wholesale funding. Net interest margin results are expected to modestly decrease over the next quarter driven by increasing levels of cash and continued liability repricing, partially offset by the impact of rising rates on the repricing of the Bancorp&#8217;s asset portfolios. 

Interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) from loans and leases increased $2.4 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by the previously mentioned increases in market interest rates and average balances of other consumer loans. For more information on the Bancorp&#8217;s loan and lease portfolio, refer to the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A. Interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) from investment securities and other short-term investments increased $796 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to the previously mentioned increases in yields on average other short-term investments and average taxable securities as well as an increase in the average balances of taxable securities. 

Interest expense on average core deposits increased $2.3 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to the previously mentioned increase in the cost of average interest-bearing core deposits to 238 bps for the year ended December 31, 2023 from 40 bps for the year ended December 31, 2022, as a result of increasing short-term interest rates. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A for additional information on the Bancorp&#8217;s deposits. 

Interest expense on average wholesale funding increased $685 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to the previously mentioned increases in rates paid on average long-term debt and FHLB advances as well as increases in the average balances of CDs over $250,000 and long-term debt. Refer to the Borrowings subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A for additional information on the Bancorp&#8217;s borrowings. During the year ended December 31, 2023, average wholesale funding represented 18% of average interest-bearing liabilities compared to 15% for the year ended December 31, 2022. For more information on the Bancorp&#8217;s interest rate risk management, including estimated earnings sensitivity to changes in market interest rates, refer to the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A. 

61 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START TABLE 6: Consolidated Average Balance Sheets and Analysis of Net Interest Income on an FTE Basis For the years ended December 31 2023 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Average Balance Interest Earned/Paid Average Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Earned/Paid Average Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Earned/Paid Average Yield/ Rate Assets: Interest-earning assets: 

Loans and leases: (a) 

Commercial and industrial loans $ 57,005 &#160; 3,887 &#160; 6.82 &#160; % $ 55,618 2,401 4.32 % $ 48,966 1,735 3.54 % Commercial mortgage loans 11,262 &#160; 672 &#160; 5.97 &#160; 10,723 415 3.87 10,396 313 3.01 Commercial construction loans 5,582 &#160; 380 &#160; 6.80 &#160; 5,458 239 4.38 5,783 181 3.13 Commercial leases 2,629 &#160; 95 &#160; 3.63 &#160; 2,828 85 3.02 3,130 92 2.94 Total commercial loans and leases 76,478 &#160; 5,034 &#160; 6.58 &#160; 74,627 3,140 4.21 68,275 2,321 3.40 Residential mortgage loans 18,002 &#160; 621 &#160; 3.45 &#160; 19,731 645 3.27 21,359 695 3.26 Home equity 3,936 &#160; 298 &#160; 7.58 &#160; 3,971 177 4.46 4,565 164 3.59 Indirect secured consumer loans 15,944 &#160; 687 &#160; 4.31 &#160; 16,914 560 3.31 15,156 508 3.35 Credit card 1,800 &#160; 252 &#160; 14.00 &#160; 1,737 221 12.73 1,783 219 12.28 Other consumer loans 6,122 &#160; 457 &#160; 7.46 &#160; 3,581 220 6.16 2,979 180 6.03 Total consumer loans 45,804 &#160; 2,315 &#160; 5.05 &#160; 45,934 1,823 3.97 45,842 1,766 3.85 Total loans and leases $ 122,282 &#160; 7,349 &#160; 6.01 &#160; % $ 120,561 4,963 4.12 % $ 114,117 4,087 3.58 % Securities: Taxable $ 56,066 &#160; 1,733 &#160; 3.09 &#160; % $ 52,218 1,493 2.86 % $ 36,164 1,074 2.97 % Exempt from income taxes (a) 

1,461 &#160; 47 &#160; 3.20 &#160; 1,128 31 2.72 854 20 2.33 Other short-term investments 11,934 &#160; 656 &#160; 5.50 &#160; 12,419 116 0.94 33,243 42 0.13 Total interest-earning assets $ 191,743 &#160; 9,785 &#160; 5.10 &#160; % $ 186,326 6,603 3.54 % $ 184,378 5,223 2.83 % Cash and due from banks 2,772 &#160; 3,093 3,055 Other assets 16,169 &#160; 19,490 21,050 Allowance for loan and lease losses (2,258) (1,980) (2,159) Total assets $ 208,426 &#160; $ 206,929 $ 206,324 Liabilities and Equity: Interest-bearing liabilities: Interest checking deposits $ 52,378 &#160; 1,552 &#160; 2.96 &#160; % $ 45,835 297 0.65 % $ 45,850 26 0.06 % Savings deposits 20,872 &#160; 147 &#160; 0.71 &#160; 23,445 32 0.14 20,531 4 0.02 Money market deposits 30,943 &#160; 666 &#160; 2.15 &#160; 29,326 67 0.23 30,631 12 0.04 Foreign office deposits 158 &#160; 3 &#160; 1.82 &#160; 170 1 0.74 164 &#8212; 0.04 CDs $250,000 or less 8,298 &#160; 308 &#160; 3.71 &#160; 2,342 9 0.40 3,214 10 0.31 Total interest-bearing core deposits 112,649 &#160; 2,676 &#160; 2.38 &#160; 101,118 406 0.40 100,390 52 0.05 CDs over $250,000 5,332 &#160; 253 &#160; 4.74 &#160; 1,688 41 2.45 530 7 1.30 Federal funds purchased 307 &#160; 15 &#160; 4.96 &#160; 381 6 1.69 333 &#8212; 0.12 Securities sold under repurchase agreements 348 &#160; 4 &#160; 1.22 &#160; 482 1 0.17 594 &#8212; 0.02 FHLB advances 4,596 &#160; 235 &#160; 5.11 &#160; 3,733 98 2.63 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Derivative collateral and other borrowed money 100 &#160; 8 &#160; 8.24 &#160; 329 9 2.94 513 2 0.30 Long-term debt 14,260 &#160; 742 &#160; 5.20 &#160; 11,893 417 3.50 13,109 380 2.89 Total interest-bearing liabilities $ 137,592 &#160; 3,933 &#160; 2.86 &#160; % $ 119,624 978 0.82 % $ 115,469 441 0.38 % Demand deposits 46,195 &#160; 60,185 62,028 Other liabilities 6,935 &#160; 8,040 6,015 Total liabilities $ 190,722 &#160; $ 187,849 $ 183,512 Total equity $ 17,704 &#160; $ 19,080 $ 22,812 Total liabilities and equity $ 208,426 &#160; $ 206,929 $ 206,324 

Net interest income (FTE) (b) 

$ 5,852 &#160; $ 5,625 $ 4,782 

Net interest margin (FTE) (b) 

3.05 &#160; % 3.02 % 2.59 % 

Net interest rate spread (FTE) (b) 

2.24 &#160; 2.72 2.45 Interest-bearing liabilities to interest-earning assets 71.76 &#160; 64.20 62.63 ##TABLE_END

(a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table were $25, $16 and $12 for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

(b) Net interest income (FTE), net interest margin (FTE) and net interest rate spread (FTE) are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A. 

62 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 7: Changes in Net Interest Income Attributable to Volume and Yield/Rate on an FTE Basis (a) 

For the years ended December 31 2023 Compared to 2022 

2022 Compared to 2021 

($ in millions) Volume Yield/Rate Total Volume Yield/Rate Total Assets: Interest-earning assets: Loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans $ 61 &#160; 1,425 &#160; 1,486 &#160; 255 411 666 Commercial mortgage loans 22 &#160; 235 &#160; 257 &#160; 10 92 102 Commercial construction loans 6 &#160; 135 &#160; 141 &#160; (11) 69 58 Commercial leases (6) 16 &#160; 10 &#160; (9) 2 (7) Total commercial loans and leases 83 &#160; 1,811 &#160; 1,894 &#160; 245 574 819 Residential mortgage loans (58) 34 &#160; (24) (53) 3 (50) Home equity (2) 123 &#160; 121 &#160; (23) 36 13 Indirect secured consumer loans (34) 161 &#160; 127 &#160; 58 (6) 52 Credit card 8 &#160; 23 &#160; 31 &#160; (6) 8 2 Other consumer loans 182 &#160; 55 &#160; 237 &#160; 37 3 40 Total consumer loans 96 &#160; 396 &#160; 492 &#160; 13 44 57 Total loans and leases $ 179 &#160; 2,207 &#160; 2,386 &#160; 258 618 876 Securities: Taxable $ 114 &#160; 126 &#160; 240 &#160; 461 (42) 419 Exempt from income taxes 10 &#160; 6 &#160; 16 &#160; 7 4 11 Other short-term investments (5) 545 &#160; 540 &#160; (42) 116 74 Total change in interest income $ 298 &#160; 2,884 &#160; 3,182 &#160; 684 696 1,380 Liabilities: Interest-bearing liabilities: Interest checking deposits $ 48 &#160; 1,207 &#160; 1,255 &#160; &#8212; 271 271 Savings deposits (4) 119 &#160; 115 &#160; 1 27 28 Money market deposits 4 &#160; 595 &#160; 599 &#160; (1) 56 55 Foreign office deposits &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; 1 1 CDs $250,000 or less 71 &#160; 228 &#160; 299 &#160; (3) 2 (1) Total interest-bearing core deposits 119 &#160; 2,151 &#160; 2,270 &#160; (3) 357 354 CDs over $250,000 148 &#160; 64 &#160; 212 &#160; 24 10 34 Federal funds purchased (1) 10 &#160; 9 &#160; &#8212; 6 6 Securities sold under repurchase agreements &#8212; &#160; 3 &#160; 3 &#160; &#8212; 1 1 FHLB advances 27 &#160; 110 &#160; 137 &#160; 98 &#8212; 98 Derivative collateral and other borrowed money (10) 9 &#160; (1) (1) 8 7 Long-term debt 94 &#160; 231 &#160; 325 &#160; (37) 74 37 Total change in interest expense $ 377 &#160; 2,578 &#160; 2,955 &#160; 81 456 537 Total change in net interest income $ (79) 306 &#160; 227 &#160; 603 240 843 ##TABLE_END

(a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change in volume and yield/rate. 

Provision for Credit Losses 

The Bancorp provides, as an expense, an amount for expected credit losses within the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded commitments and letters of credit that is based on factors previously discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&#38;A. The provision is recorded to bring the ALLL and reserve for unfunded commitments to a level deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses expected in the portfolios. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged against the ALLL. The amount of loans and leases actually removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets are referred to as charge-offs. Net charge-offs include current period charge-offs less recoveries on previously charged-off loans and leases. 

The provision for credit losses was $515 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $563 million in the prior year. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily driven by factors which resulted in an increase to the ACL during the year, including changes in product mix, the impacts of qualitative factors and increases in reserves for individually evaluated loans, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in end-of-period loan and lease balances. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by factors which resulted in an increase to the ACL during the year, including growth in loan and lease balances and deterioration in the macroeconomic forecast, partially offset by the impacts of qualitative factors. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2022 also included the initial recognition of provision for credit losses on loans acquired as part of a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. 

63 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The ALLL increased $128 million from December 31, 2022 to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2023 inclusive of a $49 million reduction from the impact of the adoption of ASU 2022-02 on January 1, 2023, as further discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2023, the ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases increased to 1.98%, compared to 1.81% at December 31, 2022. The reserve for unfunded commitments decreased $50 million from December 31, 2022 to $166 million at December 31, 2023. At December 31, 2023, the ACL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases increased to 2.12%, compared to 1.98% at December 31, 2022. 

Refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A as well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the provision for credit losses, including an analysis of loan and lease portfolio composition, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and other factors considered by the Bancorp in assessing the credit quality of the loan and lease portfolio and determining the level of the ACL. 

Noninterest Income 

Noninterest income increased $115 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The following table presents the components of noninterest income: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 8: Components of Noninterest Income For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Commercial banking revenue $ 624 &#160; 565 637 Wealth and asset management revenue 581 &#160; 570 586 Service charges on deposits 577 &#160; 589 600 Card and processing revenue 416 &#160; 409 402 Mortgage banking net revenue 250 &#160; 215 270 Leasing business revenue 208 &#160; 237 300 Other noninterest income 207 &#160; 265 332 Securities gains (losses), net 18 &#160; (82) (7) Securities losses, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights &#8212; &#160; (2) (2) Total noninterest income $ 2,881 &#160; 2,766 3,118 ##TABLE_END

Commercial banking revenue 

Commercial banking revenue increased $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in loan syndication fees, institutional brokerage revenue and foreign exchange fees, partially offset by decreases in revenue from commercial customer interest rate derivatives and merger and acquisition fees. 

Wealth and asset management revenue 

Wealth and asset management revenue increased $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in broker income and private client service fees. The Bancorp&#8217;s trust and registered investment advisory businesses had approximately $574 billion and $510 billion in total assets under care as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and managed $59 billion and $55 billion in assets for individuals, corporations and not-for-profit organizations as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

Service charges on deposits 

Service charges on deposits decreased $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 due to a decrease in service charges on both commercial and consumer deposits. Service charges on commercial deposits were $424 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a decrease of $10 million from the prior year primarily due to higher treasury management earnings credits driven by market interest rates, partially offset by an increase in commercial treasury management fees. Service charges on consumer deposits were $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a decrease of $2 million from the prior year primarily due to a decrease in consumer checking fees driven by the elimination of non-sufficient funds fees during the third quarter of 2022. 

Card and processing revenue 

Card and processing revenue increased $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in credit and debit card interchange and electronic funds transfer income, partially offset by increased reward costs. 

Mortgage banking net revenue 

Mortgage banking net revenue increased $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 

64 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table presents the components of mortgage banking net revenue: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 9: Components of Mortgage Banking Net Revenue For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Origination fees and gains on loan sales $ 79 &#160; 91 285 Net mortgage servicing revenue: Gross mortgage servicing fees 319 &#160; 310 247 Net valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives purchased to economically hedge MSRs 

(148) (186) (262) Net mortgage servicing revenue 171 &#160; 124 (15) Total mortgage banking net revenue $ 250 &#160; 215 270 ##TABLE_END

Origination fees and gains on loan sales decreased $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by lower volumes of residential mortgage loan originations as well as a decrease in gains from sales of government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Residential mortgage loan originations decreased to $5.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 from $14.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to the impact of higher market interest rates on originations. 

The following table presents the components of net valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio and the impact of the Bancorp&#8217;s non-qualifying hedging strategy. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 10: Components of Net Valuation Adjustments on MSRs For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Changes in fair value and settlement of free-standing derivatives purchased to economically hedge the MSR portfolio $ (43) (363) (123) Changes in fair value: Due to changes in inputs or assumptions (a) 

43 &#160; 355 142 Other changes in fair value (b) 

(148) (178) (281) Net valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives purchased to economically hedge MSRs $ (148) (186) (262) ##TABLE_END

(a) Primarily reflects changes in prepayment speed and OAS assumptions which are updated based on market interest rates. 

(b) Primarily reflects changes due to realized cash flows and the passage of time. 

For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Bancorp recognized losses of $105 million and income of $177 million, respectively, in mortgage banking net revenue for valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio. The valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio included increases of $43 million and $355 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, due to changes in market rates and other inputs in the valuation model, including future prepayment speeds and OAS assumptions. Mortgage rates increased slightly during the year ended December 31, 2023, which caused a decrease in prepayment speeds. The fair value of the MSR portfolio also decreased $148 million and $178 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, as a result of contractual principal payments and actual prepayment activity. 

Further detail on the valuation of MSRs can be found in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the valuation of the MSR portfolio. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the free-standing derivatives used to economically hedge the MSR portfolio. 

In addition to the derivative positions used to economically hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp acquires various securities as a component of its non-qualifying hedging strategy. Gains and losses on these securities are recorded in securities losses, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights in the Bancorp&#8217;s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s total residential mortgage loans serviced at December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $117.0 billion and $120.2 billion, respectively, with $100.8 billion and $103.2 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage loans serviced for others. 

65 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Leasing business revenue 

Leasing business revenue decreased $29 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by decreases in operating lease income, lease remarketing fees and leasing business solutions revenue. The decrease in leasing business solutions revenue was related to the disposition of LaSalle Solutions during the second quarter of 2022. 

Other noninterest income 

The following table presents the components of other noninterest income: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 11: Components of Other Noninterest Income For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 BOLI income $ 61 &#160; 64 61 Cardholder fees 56 &#160; 54 50 Equity method investment income 52 &#160; 22 30 Private equity investment income 44 &#160; 70 81 Banking center income 25 &#160; 24 23 Income from the TRA associated with Worldpay, Inc. 22 &#160; 46 46 Consumer loan fees 20 &#160; 19 17 Gains on contract sales 2 &#160; 3 62 Loss on swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B Shares (94) (84) (86) Other, net 19 &#160; 47 48 Total other noninterest income $ 207 &#160; 265 332 ##TABLE_END

Other noninterest income decreased $58 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in private equity investment income and income from the TRA associated with Worldpay, Inc., partially offset by an increase in equity method investment income. 

Private equity investment income decreased $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily driven by gains realized on certain private equity investments during the prior year. Income from the TRA associated with Worldpay, Inc. was $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $46 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. For more information, refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity method investment income increased $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to a gain on the partial disposition of an equity method investment during the second quarter of 2023. 

Securities gains (losses), net 

Net securities gains were $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with losses of $82 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. For more information, refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Noninterest Expense 

Noninterest expense increased $486 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The following table presents the components of noninterest expense: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 12: Components of Noninterest Expense For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Compensation and benefits $ 2,694 &#160; 2,554 2,626 Technology and communications 464 &#160; 416 388 Net occupancy expense 331 &#160; 307 312 Equipment expense 148 &#160; 145 138 Marketing expense 126 &#160; 118 107 Leasing business expense 121 &#160; 131 137 Card and processing expense 84 &#160; 80 89 Other noninterest expense 1,237 &#160; 968 951 Total noninterest expense $ 5,205 &#160; 4,719 4,748 

Efficiency ratio on an FTE basis (a) 

59.6 &#160; % 56.2 60.1 ##TABLE_END

(a) This is a non-GAAP measure. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A. 

Compensation and benefits expense increased $140 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in base compensation, which includes the impact of merit increases, the additional personnel costs of an acquired business, the impact of raising the Bancorp&#8217;s minimum wage in the third quarter of 2022 and an increase in severance expense. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 also included an increase in non-qualified 

66 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

deferred compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in performance-based compensation. Full-time equivalent employees totaled 18,724 at December 31, 2023 compared to 19,319 at December 31, 2022. 

Technology and communications expense increased $48 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increased investments in strategic initiatives and technology modernization. 

Net occupancy expense increased $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by fluctuations in energy prices, higher expenses associated with the maintenance and renovation of banking centers and the impacts of exiting mortgage warehouse lending. 

Marketing expense increased $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in deposit campaigns. 

Leasing business expense decreased $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by a decrease in depreciation expense associated with operating lease equipment. 

The following table presents the components of other noninterest expense: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 13: Components of Other Noninterest Expense For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 FDIC insurance and other taxes $ 385 &#160; 132 114 Loan and lease 133 &#160; 167 217 Losses and adjustments 91 &#160; 91 69 Data processing 87 &#160; 82 79 Dues and subscriptions 61 &#160; 58 55 Travel 56 &#160; 60 34 Professional service fees 53 &#160; 54 63 Securities recordkeeping 50 &#160; 48 52 Cash and coin processing 48 &#160; 44 39 Postal and courier 46 &#160; 40 37 Intangible amortization 43 &#160; 47 44 Other, net 184 &#160; 145 148 Total other noninterest expense $ 1,237 &#160; 968 951 ##TABLE_END

Other noninterest expense increased $269 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in FDIC insurance and other taxes, partially offset by a decrease in loan and lease expense. 

FDIC insurance and other taxes increased $253 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of a $224 million FDIC special assessment, as further discussed in the Overview section of MD&#38;A, as well as an increase in the FDIC insurance initial base deposit insurance assessment rate. 

Loan and lease expense decreased $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by a decrease in loan servicing expenses related to the Bancorp&#8217;s sales of certain government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans that were previously in forbearance programs and serviced by a third party. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 also included a decrease in loan closing expense related to lower origination volumes for residential mortgage loans. 

67 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Applicable Income Taxes 

Applicable income tax expense for all periods presented includes the benefits from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments and tax credits (and other related tax benefits), partially offset by the effect of proportional amortization of qualifying LIHTC investments and certain nondeductible expenses. The tax credits are primarily associated with the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program established under Section 42 of the IRC, the New Markets Tax Credit program established under Section 45D of the IRC, the Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit program established under Section 47 of the IRC, the Credit for Increasing Research Activities program established under Section 41 of the IRC and the Qualified Zone Academy Bond program established under Section 1397E of the IRC. 

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were primarily impacted by $230 million and $219 million, respectively, of low-income housing tax credits and other tax benefits and $25 million and $26 million, respectively, of tax benefits from tax-exempt income, which were partially offset by $200 million and $189 million, respectively, of proportional amortization related to qualifying LIHTC investments. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s income before income taxes, applicable income tax expense and effective tax rate are as follows: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 14: Applicable Income Taxes 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Income before income taxes $ 2,988 &#160; 3,093 3,517 Applicable income tax expense 639 &#160; 647 747 Effective tax rate 21.4 &#160; % 21.0 21.2 ##TABLE_END

68 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW 

The Bancorp reports on three business segments: Commercial Banking, Consumer and Small Business Banking and Wealth and Asset Management. Additional information on each business segment is included in Note 31 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of the Bancorp&#8217;s business segments are presented based on its management structure and management accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are specific to the Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp&#8217;s business segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its methodologies from time to time as management&#8217;s accounting practices and businesses change. 

The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the corporate level. By employing an FTP methodology, the business segments are insulated from most benchmark interest rate volatility, enabling them to focus on serving customers through the origination of loans and acceptance of deposits. The FTP methodology assigns charge and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities, respectively, based on the estimated amount and timing of cash flows for each transaction. Assigning the FTP rate based on matching the duration of cash flows allocates interest income and interest expense to each business segment so its resulting net interest income is insulated from future changes in benchmark interest rates. The Bancorp&#8217;s FTP methodology also allocates the contribution to net interest income of the asset-generating and deposit-providing businesses on a duration-adjusted basis to better attribute the driver of the performance. As the asset and liability durations are not perfectly matched, the residual impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General Corporate and Other. The charge and credit rates are determined using the FTP rate curve, which is based on an estimate of Fifth Third&#8217;s marginal borrowing cost in the wholesale funding markets. The FTP curve is constructed using the U.S. swap curve, brokered CD pricing and unsecured debt pricing. The Bancorp&#8217;s FTP methodology was not adjusted during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by the review of behavioral assumptions, such as prepayment rates on interest-earning assets and the estimated durations for indeterminate-lived deposits. Key assumptions, including the credit rates provided for deposit accounts, are reviewed annually. Credit rates for deposit products and charge rates for loan products may be reset more frequently in response to changes in market conditions. In general, the charge rates on assets increased since December 31, 2022 as they were affected by the prevailing level of interest rates and by the duration and repricing characteristics of the portfolio. The credit rates for deposit products also increased since December 31, 2022 due to higher interest rates and modified assumptions. Thus, net interest income for asset-generating business segments was negatively impacted by the rates charged on assets while deposit-providing business segments were positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2023. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s methodology for allocating provision for credit losses to the business segments includes charges or benefits associated with changes in criticized commercial loan levels in addition to actual net charge-offs experienced by the loans and leases owned by each business segment. Provision for credit losses attributable to loan and lease growth and changes in ALLL factors is captured in General Corporate and Other. The financial results of the business segments include allocations for shared services and headquarters expenses. Additionally, the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of relationship depth opportunities and funding operations by accessing the capital markets as a collective unit. 

The following table summarizes net income (loss) by business segment: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 15: Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Income Statement Data Commercial Banking $ 2,559 &#160; 1,649 1,554 Consumer and Small Business Banking 2,761 &#160; 1,309 220 Wealth and Asset Management 279 &#160; 198 94 General Corporate and Other (3,250) (710) 902 Net income $ 2,349 &#160; 2,446 2,770 ##TABLE_END

69 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Commercial Banking 

Commercial Banking offers credit intermediation, cash management and financial services to large and middle-market businesses and government and professional customers. In addition to the traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking products and services include global cash management, foreign exchange and international trade finance, derivatives and capital markets services, asset-based lending, real estate finance, public finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance. 

The following table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking segment: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 16: Commercial Banking 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Income Statement Data 

Net interest income (FTE) (a) 

$ 3,828 &#160; 2,552 1,604 Provision for (benefit from) credit losses 12 &#160; 33 (597) Noninterest income: &#160; Commercial banking revenue 619 &#160; 563 633 Service charges on deposits 371 &#160; 372 385 Leasing business revenue 208 &#160; 237 300 Other noninterest income 158 &#160; 168 179 Noninterest expense: Compensation and benefits 654 &#160; 639 644 Leasing business expense 121 &#160; 131 137 Other noninterest expense 1,228 &#160; 1,053 992 Income before income taxes (FTE) 3,169 &#160; 2,036 1,925 

Applicable income tax expense (a)(b) 

610 &#160; 387 371 Net income $ 2,559 &#160; 1,649 1,554 Average Balance Sheet Data Commercial loans and leases, including held for sale $ 72,293 &#160; 70,904 62,571 Demand deposits 23,170 &#160; 35,147 38,220 Interest checking deposits 32,319 &#160; 21,341 22,452 Savings and money market deposits 5,246 &#160; 6,019 7,825 Certificates of deposit 62 &#160; 108 117 Foreign office deposits 158 &#160; 170 164 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes FTE adjustments of $16, $10 and $8 for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

(b) Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the tax benefit from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments and tax credits partially offset by the effect of certain nondeductible expenses. Refer to the Applicable Income Taxes subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A for additional information. 

Net income was $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in net income was primarily driven by an increase in net interest income on an FTE basis, a decrease in provision for credit losses and an increase in noninterest income, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense. 

Net interest income on an FTE basis increased $1.3 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in yields on average commercial loans and leases as well as increases in FTP credit rates on deposits. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in FTP charge rates on commercial loans and leases as well as increases in rates paid on and average balances of interest checking deposits and increases in rates paid on average savings and money market deposits. 

Provision for credit losses decreased $21 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in the allocated benefit from credit losses related to commercial criticized assets as well as a decrease in net charge-offs related to commercial leases. Net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases were 12 bp s for both the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. 

Noninterest income increased $16 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 driven by an increase in commercial banking revenue, partially offset by decreases in leasing business revenue and other noninterest income. Commercial banking revenue increased $56 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in loan syndication fees, institutional brokerage revenue and foreign exchange fees, partially offset by decreases in contract revenue from commercial customer derivatives and merger and acquisition fees. Leasing business revenue decreased $29 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by decreases in operating lease income, lease remarketing fees and leasing business solutions revenue. The decrease in leasing business solutions revenue was related to the disposition of LaSalle Solutions during the second quarter of 2022. Other noninterest income decreased $10 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to a decrease in private equity investment income, partially offset by a decrease in net securities losses. 

Noninterest expense increased $180 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 driven by increases in other noninterest expense and compensation and benefits, partially offset by a decrease in leasing business expense. Other noninterest expense increased $175 million from 

70 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in allocated expenses and FDIC insurance and other taxes. The increase in allocated expenses was primarily related to cash management services and information technology support services . Compensation and benefits increased $15 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in base compensation, partially offset by a decrease in performance-based compensation. Leasing business expense decreased $10 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by a decrease in depreciation expense associated with operating lease equipment. 

Average commercial loans and leases increased $1.4 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in average commercial and industrial loans, average commercial mortgage loans and average commercial construction loans, partially offset by a decrease in average commercial leases. Average commercial and industrial loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of higher loan balances in the first half of 2023 driven by production exceeding paydowns, partially offset by a planned reduction in balances in the second half of 2023. Average commercial mortgage loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2022 as loan originations exceeded payoffs . Average commercial construction loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2022 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Average commercial leases decreased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. 

Average deposits decreased $1.8 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in average demand deposits and average savings and money market deposits, partially offset by an increase in average interest checking deposits. Average demand deposits decreased $12.0 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of balance migration into interest checking deposits and lower average balances per customer account. Average savings and money market deposits decreased $773 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to lower average balances per customer account and balance migration into interest checking deposits . Average interest checking deposits increased $11.0 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of balance migration from demand deposits and savings and money market deposits as well as average balance growth. 

71 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Consumer and Small Business Banking 

Consumer and Small Business Banking provides a full range of deposit and loan products to individuals and small businesses through a network of full-service banking centers and relationships with indirect and correspondent loan originators in addition to providing products designed to meet the specific needs of small businesses, including cash management services. Consumer and Small Business Banking includes the Bancorp&#8217;s residential mortgage, home equity loans and lines of credit, credit cards, automobile and other indirect lending and other consumer lending activities. Residential mortgage activities include the origination, retention and servicing of residential mortgage loans, sales and securitizations of those loans and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending activities include extending loans to consumers through automobile dealers, motorcycle dealers, powersport dealers, recreational vehicle dealers and marine dealers. Other consumer lending activities include home improvement and solar energy installation loans originated through a network of contractors and installers. 

The following table contains selected financial data for the Consumer and Small Business Banking segment: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 17: Consumer and Small Business Banking 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Income Statement Data Net interest income $ 5,207 &#160; 3,131 1,685 Provision for credit losses 303 &#160; 139 120 Noninterest income: &#160; Card and processing revenue 312 &#160; 308 312 Mortgage banking net revenue 250 &#160; 214 267 Wealth and asset management revenue 216 &#160; 204 206 Service charges on deposits 208 &#160; 216 214 Other noninterest income 119 &#160; 111 108 Noninterest expense: Compensation and benefits 878 &#160; 828 833 Net occupancy and equipment expense 253 &#160; 234 235 Card and processing expense 76 &#160; 72 85 Other noninterest expense 1,308 &#160; 1,255 1,242 Income before income taxes 3,494 &#160; 1,656 277 Applicable income tax expense 733 &#160; 347 57 Net income $ 2,761 &#160; 1,309 220 Average Balance Sheet Data Consumer loans, including held for sale $ 42,933 &#160; 43,049 43,072 Commercial loans 2,829 &#160; 1,727 928 Demand deposits 21,891 &#160; 23,600 22,932 Interest checking deposits 12,325 &#160; 15,191 14,633 Savings and money market deposits 42,305 &#160; 43,054 40,647 Certificates of deposit 8,809 &#160; 2,543 3,292 ##TABLE_END

Net income was $2.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by increases in net interest income and noninterest income, partially offset by increases in provision for credit losses and noninterest expense. 

Net interest income increased $2.1 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in FTP credit rates on deposits as well as increases in yields on and average balances of loans. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in rates paid on deposits as well as FTP charge rates on loans. 

Provision for credit losses increased $164 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in net charge-offs on other consumer loans, commercial and industrial loans, indirect secured consumer loans and credit card. Net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases increased to 68 bps for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 33 bps for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Noninterest income increased $52 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in mortgage banking net revenue and wealth and asset management revenue. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A for additional information on the fluctuation in mortgage banking net revenue. Wealth and asset management revenue increased $12 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in broker income. 

72 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Noninterest expense increased $126 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in other noninterest expense, compensation and benefits and net occupancy and equipment expense. Other noninterest expense increased $ 53 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in allocated expenses, FDIC insurance and other taxes and marketing expense. The increase in allocated expenses was primarily related to information technology support services. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in loan servicing expenses related to the Bancorp&#8217;s sales of certain government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans that were previously in forbearance programs and serviced by a third party. Compensation and benefits increased $50 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in base compensation, which includes the incremental impact of a business acquired in the second quarter of 2022 and the impact of raising the Bancorp&#8217;s minimum wage in the third quarter of 2022. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $19 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in allocated occupancy costs. 

Average consumer loans decreased $116 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by decreases in average residential mortgage loans and average indirect secured consumer loans, partially offset by increases in average other consumer loans and average credit card. Average residential mortgage loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in average residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs and also had lower origination volumes. Average indirect secured consumer loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by paydowns exceeding loan originations and a planned reduction in balances. Average other consumer loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans. Average credit card increased from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in balance-active customers and average balances per balance-active account. Average commercial loans increased $1.1 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in average commercial and industrial loans and average commercial mortgage loans as loan originations exceeded payoffs. 

Average deposits increased $942 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in average certificates of deposit, partially offset by decreases in average interest checking deposits, average demand deposits and average savings and money market deposits. Average certificates of deposit increased $6.3 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to higher offering rates. Average interest checking deposits decreased $2.9 billion, average demand deposits decreased $1.7 billion and average savings and money market deposits decreased $749 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of lower average balances per customer account due to increased consumer spending and balance migration into certificates of deposit . In response to the higher interest rate environment, deposit balances have migrated from noninterest-bearing products to higher interest-bearing products. 

Wealth and Asset Management 

Wealth and Asset Management provides a full range of wealth management solutions for individuals, companies and not-for-profit organizations, including wealth planning, investment management, banking, insurance, trust and estate services. These offerings include retail brokerage services for individual clients, advisory services for institutional clients including middle market businesses, non-profits, states and municipalities, and wealth management strategies and products for high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients. 

The following table contains selected financial data for the Wealth and Asset Management segment: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 18: Wealth and Asset Management 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Income Statement Data Net interest income $ 360 &#160; 262 88 Provision for (benefit from) credit losses 1 &#160; &#8212; (1) Noninterest income: Wealth and asset management revenue 549 &#160; 540 558 Other noninterest income 6 &#160; 5 12 Noninterest expense: Compensation and benefits 220 &#160; 218 205 Other noninterest expense 341 &#160; 338 335 Income before income taxes 353 &#160; 251 119 Applicable income tax expense 74 &#160; 53 25 Net income $ 279 &#160; 198 94 Average Balance Sheet Data Loans and leases, including held for sale $ 4,386 &#160; 4,413 3,852 Deposits 11,122 &#160; 12,725 11,480 ##TABLE_END

Net income was $279 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $198 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in net income was primarily driven by increases in net interest income and noninterest income, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense. 

73 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Net interest income increased $98 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by an increase in FTP credit rates on deposits as well as increases in yields on average loans and leases. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in rates paid on average deposits as well as an increase in FTP charge rates on loans and leases for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. 

Noninterest income increased $10 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in wealth and asset management revenue driven by increases in broker income and private client service fees. 

Noninterest expense increased $5 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 due to increases in other noninterest expense and compensation and benefits . Other noninterest expense increased $3 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of an increase in allocated expenses related to operational support and settlement services. Compensation and benefits increased $2 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of an increase in base compensation. 

Average loans and leases decreased $27 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by decreases in average commercial and industrial loans and average home equity loans as payoffs exceeded loan production, partially offset by an increase in average commercial mortgage loans as a result of higher loan production. 

Average deposits decreased $1.6 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by decreases in average interest checking deposits and average demand deposits as a result of lower average balances per customer account, partially offset by an increase in average savings and money market deposits. 

General Corporate and Other 

General Corporate and Other includes the unallocated portion of the investment securities portfolio, securities gains and losses, certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, unallocated provision for credit losses or a benefit from the reduction of the ACL, the payment of preferred stock dividends and certain support activities and other items not attributed to the business segments. 

Net interest income on an FTE basis decreased $3.2 billion from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in FTP credits on deposits allocated to the business segments, increases in interest expense on long-term debt and deposits and decreases in interest income on loans and leases. These negative impacts were partially offset by increases in FTP charges to the business segments on loans and leases as well as increases in interest income on investment securities and other short-term investments. The increases in both FTP credits and FTP charges allocated to the business segments were driven by increases in market interest rates. Under the Bancorp&#8217;s internal reporting methodology, the Bancorp insulates the business segments from interest rate risk associated with fixed-rate lending by transferring this risk to General Corporate and Other through the FTP methodology. As a result, the amount of FTP credits on deposits earned by the business segments has increased at a faster pace than the amount of allocated FTP charges on loans and leases. If market interest rates remain at current levels, the FTP charges to the business segments for loans and leases will increase over time as fixed-rate loans mature and are replaced with new originations. 

Provision for credit losses decreased $192 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by the impact of allocations to the business segments. 

Noninterest income increased $46 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by the recognition of net securities gains compared to net securities losses during the prior year, partially offset by a decrease in income from the TRA associated with Worldpay, Inc. 

Noninterest expense increased $184 million from the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily driven by increases in FDIC insurance and other taxes due to the FDIC special assessment, compensation and benefits due to higher non-qualified deferred compensation expense and severance expense and an increase in technology and communications expense, partially offset by the impact of increases in corporate overhead allocations from General Corporate and Other to the other business segments. Refer to the Overview section of MD&#38;A for additional information on the special deposit insurance assessment. 

74 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 

Loans and Leases 

The Bancorp classifies its commercial loans and leases based upon primary purpose and consumer loans based upon product or collateral. Table 19 summarizes end of period loans and leases, including loans and leases held for sale, and Table 20 summarizes average total loans and leases, including average loans and leases held for sale. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 19: Components of Total Loans and Leases (including loans and leases held for sale) As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Commercial loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans $ 53,311 &#160; 57,305 Commercial mortgage loans 11,276 &#160; 11,020 Commercial construction loans 5,621 &#160; 5,433 Commercial leases 2,582 &#160; 2,704 Total commercial loans and leases $ 72,790 &#160; 76,462 Consumer loans: Residential mortgage loans 17,360 &#160; 18,562 Home equity 3,916 &#160; 4,039 Indirect secured consumer loans 14,965 &#160; 16,552 Credit card 1,865 &#160; 1,874 Other consumer loans 6,716 &#160; 4,998 Total consumer loans $ 44,822 &#160; 46,025 Total loans and leases $ 117,612 &#160; 122,487 Total portfolio loans and leases (excluding loans and leases held for sale) $ 117,234 &#160; 121,480 ##TABLE_END

Total loans and leases, including loans and leases held for sale, decreased $4.9 billion, or 4%, from December 31, 2022 driven by decreases in both commercial loans and leases and consumer loans. 

Commercial loans and leases decreased $3.7 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 2022 due to decreases in commercial and industrial loans and commercial leases, partially offset by increases in commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans. Commercial and industrial loans decreased $4.0 billion, or 7%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of payoffs, decreased revolving line of credit utilization and a planned reduction in balances in the second half of 2023. Commercial leases decreased $122 million, or 5%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. Commercial mortgage loans increased $256 million, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Commercial construction loans increased $188 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2022 as draws on existing commitments and loan originations exceeded payoffs. 

Consumer loans decreased $1.2 billion, or 3%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in indirect secured consumer loans, residential mortgage loans and home equity, partially offset by an increase in other consumer loans. Indirect secured consumer loans decreased $1.6 billion, or 10%, from December 31, 2022 primarily driven by paydowns exceeding loan originations and a planned reduction in balances. Residential mortgage loans decreased $1.2 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in residential mortgage loans related to lower origination volumes as well as a decrease in residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Home equity decreased $123 million, or 3%, as payoffs exceeded loan originations and new advances. Other consumer loans increased $1.7 billion, or 34%, from December 31, 2022 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans. 

75 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START TABLE 20: Components of Average Loans and Leases (including average loans and leases held for sale) For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Commercial loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans $ 57,005 &#160; 55,618 Commercial mortgage loans 11,262 &#160; 10,723 Commercial construction loans 5,582 &#160; 5,458 Commercial leases 2,629 &#160; 2,828 Total commercial loans and leases $ 76,478 &#160; 74,627 Consumer loans: Residential mortgage loans 18,002 &#160; 19,731 Home equity 3,936 &#160; 3,971 Indirect secured consumer loans 15,944 &#160; 16,914 Credit card 1,800 &#160; 1,737 Other consumer loans 6,122 &#160; 3,581 Total consumer loans $ 45,804 &#160; 45,934 Total average loans and leases $ 122,282 &#160; 120,561 Total average portfolio loans and leases (excluding loans and leases held for sale) $ 121,645 &#160; 118,069 ##TABLE_END

Average loans and leases, including average loans and leases held for sale, increased $1.7 billion, or 1%, from December 31, 2022 driven by an increase in average commercial loans and leases, partially offset by a decrease in average consumer loans. 

Average commercial loans and leases increased $1.9 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 due to increases in average commercial and industrial loans, average commercial mortgage loans and average commercial construction loans, partially offset by a decrease in average commercial leases. Average commercial and industrial loans increased $1.4 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of higher loan balances in the first half of 2023 driven by production exceeding paydowns, partially offset by a planned reduction in balances in the second half of 2023. Average commercial mortgage loans increased $539 million, or 5%, from December 31, 2022 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Average commercial construction loans increased $124 million, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Average commercial leases decreased $199 million, or 7%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. 

Average consumer loans decreased $130 million from December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in average residential mortgage loans and average indirect secured consumer loans, partially offset by increases in average other consumer loans and average credit card. Average residential mortgage loans decreased $1.7 billion, or 9%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to a decrease in residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs and also had lower origination volumes. Average indirect secured consumer loans decreased $970 million, or 6%, from December 31, 2022 primarily driven by paydowns exceeding loan originations and a planned reduction in balances. Average other consumer loans increased $2.5 billion, or 71%, from December 31, 2022 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans. Average credit card increased $63 million, or 4%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in balance-active customers and average balances per balance-active account. 

Investment Securities 

The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing interest rate risk, providing collateral for pledging purposes and for liquidity risk management. Total investment securities we re $51.9 billion an d $52.2 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The taxable available-for-sale debt and other investment securities portfolio had an effective duration of 4.8 at December 31, 2023 compared to 5.4 at December 31, 2022. 

Debt securities are classified as available-for-sale when, in management&#8217;s judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in market conditions. Securities that management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. Debt securities are classified as trading typically when bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. At December 31, 2023, the Bancorp&#8217;s investment portfolio consisted primarily of AAA-rated available-for-sale debt and other securities. The Bancorp held an immaterial amount of below-investment grade available-for-sale debt and other securities at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. 

During the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp recognized $5 million, $1 million and $19 million, respectively, of impairment losses on available-for-sale debt and other securities, included in securities gains (losses), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These losses related to certain securities in unrealized loss positions where the Bancorp has determined that it no longer intends to hold the securities until the recovery of their amortized cost bases. 

76 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

At both December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Bancorp completed its evaluation of the available-for-sale debt and other securities in an unrealized loss position and did not recognize an allowance for credit losses. The Bancorp did not recognize provision expense du ring the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 related to available-for-sale debt and other securities in an unrealized loss position. 

The following table summarizes the end of period components of investment securities: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 21: Components of Investment Securities As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Available-for-sale debt and other securities (amortized cost basis): U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities $ 4,477 &#160; 2,683 Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities 2 &#160; 18 Mortgage-backed securities: Agency residential mortgage-backed securities 11,564 &#160; 12,604 Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 28,945 &#160; 29,824 Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 4,872 &#160; 5,235 Asset-backed securities and other debt securities 5,207 &#160; 6,292 Other securities (a) 

722 &#160; 874 Total available-for-sale debt and other securities $ 55,789 &#160; 57,530 Held-to-maturity securities (amortized cost basis): Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities $ &#8212; &#160; 3 Asset-backed securities and other debt securities 2 &#160; 2 Total held-to-maturity securities $ 2 &#160; 5 Trading debt securities (fair value): U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities $ 647 &#160; 45 Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities 39 &#160; 14 Agency residential mortgage-backed securities 6 &#160; 8 Asset-backed securities and other debt securities 207 &#160; 347 Total trading debt securities $ 899 &#160; 414 Total equity securities (fair value) $ 613 &#160; 317 ##TABLE_END

(a) Other securities consist of FHLB, FRB and DTCC restricted stock holdings that are carried at cost. 

In January 2024, the Bancorp transferred $12.6 billion (amortized cost basis) of securities from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity to reflect the Bancorp&#8217;s change in intent to hold these securities to maturity in order to reduce potential capital volatility associated with investment security market price fluctuations. AOCI included pretax unrealized losses of $994 million on these securities at the date of transfer. The unrealized losses that existed on the date of transfer will continue to be reported as a component of AOCI and will be amortized into income over the remaining life of the securities as an adjustment to yield, offsetting the amortization of the discount resulting from the transfer recorded at fair value. 

On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale debt and other securities decreased $1.7 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreases in asset-backed securities and other debt securities, agency residential mortgage-backed securities and agency commercial mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by increases in U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities. Trading debt securities increased $485 million from December 31, 2022 primarily due to purchases of U.S. Treasury securities during the year ended December 31, 2023 related to the Bancorp&#8217;s management of collateral posted for derivative exposures. 

On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale debt and other securities were 28% and 30% of total interest-earning assets at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The estimated weighted-average life of the debt securities in the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio wa s 6.2 years and 6.8 years at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2023 and 2022, the debt securities in the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio had a weighted-average yield o f 3.06% and 2.97%, respectively. 

Information presented in Table 22 is on a weighted-average life basis, anticipating future prepayments. Yield information is presented on an FTE basis and is computed using amortized cost balances and reflects the impact of prepayments. Maturity and yield calculations for the total available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio exclude other securities that have no stated yield or maturity. Total net unrealized losses on the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio were $5.4 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The fair values of investment securities are impacted by interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity conditions. The fair value of the Bancorp&#8217;s investment securities portfolio generally decreases when interest rates increase or when credit spreads widen. 

77 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START TABLE 22: Characteristics of Available-for-Sale Debt and Other Securities As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) Amortized Cost Fair Value Weighted-Average Life (in years) Weighted-Average Yield U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities: Average life within one year $ 350 350 0.8 5.46 % Average life after one year through five years 3,901 3,763 2.9 3.62 Average life after five years through ten years 226 223 5.2 3.60 Total $ 4,477 4,336 2.9 3.76 % Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities: Average life within one year 2 2 0.7 &#8212; Total $ 2 2 0.7 &#8212; % Agency residential mortgage-backed securities: Average life within one year 5 5 0.6 2.29 Average life after one year through five years 881 815 3.5 2.84 Average life after five years through ten years 9,682 8,672 8.0 3.00 Average life after ten years 996 790 11.3 2.93 Total $ 11,564 10,282 8.0 2.98 % 

Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities: (a) 

Average life within one year 59 57 0.8 2.98 Average life after one year through five years 10,205 9,508 3.6 2.71 Average life after five years through ten years 13,945 12,234 7.4 2.88 Average life after ten years 4,736 3,921 12.0 2.93 Total $ 28,945 25,720 6.8 2.83 % Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities: Average life within one year 340 332 0.8 3.30 Average life after one year through five years 2,442 2,323 2.2 3.24 Average life after five years through ten years 2,090 1,790 7.5 2.81 Total $ 4,872 4,445 4.3 3.06 % Asset-backed securities and other debt securities: Average life within one year 634 618 0.7 3.95 Average life after one year through five years 3,488 3,279 3.1 3.74 Average life after five years through ten years 1,048 979 6.1 4.42 Average life after ten years 37 36 13.5 5.23 Total $ 5,207 4,912 3.5 3.91 % Other securities 722 722 Total available-for-sale debt and other securities $ 55,789 50,419 6.2 3.06 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above table are 0.01%, 0.19% and 0.03% for securities with an average life between 5 and 10 years, average life greater than 10 years and in total, respectively. 

Other Short-Term Investments 

Other short-term investments have original maturities less than one year and primarily include interest-bearing balances that are funds on deposit at other depository institutions or the FRB. The Bancorp uses other short-term investments as part of its liquidity risk management tools. Other short-term investments were $22.1 billion at December 31, 2023, an increase of $13.7 billion from December 31, 2022. This increase was primarily attributable to the Bancorp&#8217;s decision to increase its liquidity position in response to conditions in the operating environment as of December 31, 2023. 

Deposits 

The Bancorp&#8217;s deposit balances represent an important source of funding and revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to focus on core deposit growth in its retail and commercial franchises by improving customer satisfaction, building full relationships and offering competitive rates. Average core deposits represented 76% and 78% of average total assets for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

78 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table presents the end of period components of deposits: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 23: Components of Deposits 

As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Demand $ 43,146 &#160; 53,125 Interest checking 57,257 &#160; 51,653 Savings 18,215 &#160; 23,469 Money market 34,374 &#160; 28,220 Foreign office 162 &#160; 182 Total transaction deposits 153,154 &#160; 156,649 CDs $250,000 or less 10,552 &#160; 3,809 Total core deposits 163,706 &#160; 160,458 

CDs over $250,000 (a) 

5,206 &#160; 3,232 Total deposits $ 168,912 &#160; 163,690 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $4.4 billion and $3.1 billion of retail brokered certificates of deposit which are fully covered by FDIC insurance as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

Core deposits increased $3.2 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 due to an increase in CDs $250,000 or less, partially offset by a decrease in transaction deposits. In response to the higher interest rate environment, deposit balances have migrated from noninterest-bearing products such as demand deposits into higher interest-bearing products such as CDs, money market accounts and interest checking accounts. CDs $250,000 or less increased $6.7 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily due to higher offering rates. Transaction deposits decreased $3.5 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 as decreases in demand deposits and savings deposits were partially offset by increases in money market deposits and interest checking deposits. Demand deposits decreased $10.0 billion, or 19%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of the aforementioned balance migration and lower balances per customer account. Savings deposits decreased $5.3 billion, or 22%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of balance migration into CDs and lower balances per consumer customer account due to increased consumer spending. Money market deposits increased $6.2 billion, or 22%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of higher balances per consumer customer account due to higher offering rates. Interest checking deposits increased $5.6 billion, or 11%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of balance migration from demand deposits and commercial balance growth, partially offset by lower balances per consumer customer account. 

CDs over $250,000 increased $2.0 billion, or 61%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in retail brokered CDs issued, which are utilized as a short-term funding source. 

The following table presents the components of average deposits for the years ended December 31: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 24: Components of Average Deposits 

($ in millions) 2023 2022 Demand $ 46,195 &#160; 60,185 Interest checking 52,378 &#160; 45,835 Savings 20,872 &#160; 23,445 Money market 30,943 &#160; 29,326 Foreign office 158 &#160; 170 Total transaction deposits 150,546 &#160; 158,961 CDs $250,000 or less 8,298 &#160; 2,342 Total core deposits 158,844 &#160; 161,303 

CDs over $250,000 (a) 

5,332 &#160; 1,688 Total average deposits $ 164,176 &#160; 162,991 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $4.7 billion and $1.5 billion of retail brokered certificates of deposit which are fully covered by FDIC insurance for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

On an average basis, core deposits decreased $2.5 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2022 due to a decrease in average transaction deposits, partially offset by an increase in average CDs $250,000 or less. In response to the higher interest rate environment, average deposit balances have migrated from noninterest-bearing products such as demand deposits into higher interest-bearing products such as interest checking accounts, CDs and money market accounts. Average transaction deposits decreased $8.4 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 2022, primarily driven by decreases in average demand deposits and average savings deposits, partially offset by increases in average interest checking deposits and average money market deposits. Average demand deposits decreased $14.0 billion, or 23%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of the aforementioned balance migration and lower average balances per customer account. Average savings deposits decreased $2.6 billion, or 11%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to balance migration into CDs and lower average balances per consumer customer account due to increased consumer spending. Average interest checking deposits increased $6.5 billion, or 14%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of balance migration from demand deposits and money market deposits as well as average commercial balance 

79 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

growth, partially offset by lower average balances per consumer customer account. Average money market deposits increased $1.6 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of higher average balances per consumer customer account due to higher offering rates, partially offset by balance migration into interest checking deposits. Average CDs $250,000 or less increased $6.0 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily due to higher offering rates. 

Average CDs over $250,000 increased $3.6 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in retail brokered CDs issued. 

Contractual maturities 

The contractual maturities of CDs as of December 31, 2023 are summarized in the following table: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 25: Contractual Maturities of CDs (a) 

($ in millions) Next 12 months $ 15,541 13-24 months 150 25-36 months 49 37-48 months 8 49-60 months 7 After 60 months 3 

Total CD s 

$ 15,758 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes CDs $250,000 or less and CDs over $250,000. 

Deposit insurance 

The FDIC generally provides a standard amount of insurance of $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category defined by the FDIC. Depositors may qualify for coverage of accounts over $250,000 if they have funds in different ownership categories and all FDIC requirements are met. All deposits that an account owner has in the same ownership category at the same bank are added together and insured up to the standard insurance amount. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $97.6 billion, or 58%, and $94.1 billion, or 58%, respectively, of the Bancorp&#8217;s domestic deposits were estimated to be insured. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $71.1 billion and $69.4 billion, respectively, of the Bancorp&#8217;s domestic deposits were estimated to be uninsured. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $3.4 billion and $727 million, respectively, of the Bancorp&#8217;s time deposits were estimated to be not fully insured. The estimated uninsured portions of those time deposits were $1.9 billion and $306 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Where information is not readily available to determine the amount of insured deposits, the amount of uninsured deposits is estimated, consistent with the methodologies and assumptions utilized in providing information to the Bank&#8217;s regulators. 

Borrowings 

The Bancorp accesses a variety of short-term and long-term funding sources. Borrowings with original maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term and include federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings. Total average borrowings as a percent of average interest-bearing liabilities were 14% at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. 

The following table summarizes the end of period components of borrowings: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 26: Components of Borrowings 

As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Federal funds purchased $ 193 &#160; 180 Other short-term borrowings 2,861 &#160; 4,838 Long-term debt 16,380 &#160; 13,714 Total borrowings $ 19,434 &#160; 18,732 ##TABLE_END

Total borrowings increased $702 million, or 4%, from December 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase in long-term debt partially offset by a decrease in other short-term borrowings. Long-term debt increased $2.7 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily driven by the issuance of senior fixed-rate/floating-rate notes in July of 2023 totaling $1.25 billion and the issuance of asset-backed securities in August of 2023 totaling $1.5 billion related to an automobile loan securitization. Additionally, in September of 2023 the Bancorp obtained $1.5 billion in new FHLB advances that will mature in 2024, utilizing its existing borrowing capacity. These increases were partially offset by the redemptions or maturities of $1.3 billion of notes and $272 million of paydowns associated with loan securitizations during the year ended December 31, 2023. For additional information regarding the long-term debt issuances, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other short-term borrowings decreased $2.0 billion from December 31, 2022 primarily due to core deposit growth, including seasonal inflows during the fourth quarter of 2023, and increased long-term debt which reduced the need for short-term funding at period-end. The level of other short-term borrowings can fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on funding needs and the sources that are used to satisfy those needs. For further information on the components of other short-term borrowings, refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

80 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table summarizes the components of average borrowings: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 27: Components of Average Borrowings 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Federal funds purchased $ 307 &#160; 381 Other short-term borrowings 5,044 &#160; 4,544 Long-term debt 14,260 &#160; 11,893 Total average borrowings $ 19,611 &#160; 16,818 ##TABLE_END

Total average borrowings increased $2.8 billion, or 17%, compared to December 31, 2022 primarily due to increases in average long-term debt and average other short-term borrowings. Average long-term debt increased $2.4 billion compared to December 31, 2022 primarily driven by the aforementioned issuances in 2023 totaling $2.75 billion and the aforementioned $1.5 billion in new FHLB advances the Bancorp obtained in 2023. These increases were partially offset by redemptions or maturities of $1.3 billion of notes and $272 million of paydowns associated with loan securitizations during the year ended December 31, 2023. Average other short-term borrowings increased $500 million compared to December 31, 2022 primarily due to maintaining higher levels of liquidity in response to the conditions in the current operating environment, including regulatory uncertainty. Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is discussed in the Net Interest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A. In addition, refer to the Liquidity Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A for a discussion on the role of borrowings in the Bancorp&#8217;s liquidity management. 

81 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

RISK MANAGEMENT &#8211; OVERVIEW 

Effective risk management is critical to the Bancorp&#8217;s ongoing success and ensures that the Bancorp operates in a safe and sound manner, complies with applicable laws and regulations and safeguards the Bancorp&#8217;s brand and reputation. Risks are inherent in the Bancorp&#8217;s business and are influenced by both internal and external factors. The Bancorp is responsible for managing these risks effectively to deliver through-the-cycle value and performance for the Bancorp&#8217;s shareholders, customers, employees and communities. 

Fifth Third&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which is approved annually by the Capital Committee, ERMC, RCC and the Board of Directors, includes the following key elements: 

&#8226; The Bancorp ensures transparency of risk through defined risk policies, governance and a reporting structure that includes the RCC, ERMC and other risk-specific management committees and councils. 

&#8226; The Bancorp establishes a risk appetite in alignment with its strategic, financial and capital plans at the enterprise level and the line of business level. Risk appetite is defined using quantitative metrics and qualitative measures to ensure prudent risk taking, driving balanced decision making. The Bancorp&#8217;s goal is to ensure that aggregate residual risks do not exceed the Bancorp&#8217;s risk appetite, and that risks taken are supportive of the Bancorp&#8217;s portfolio diversification and profitability objectives. The Board and executive management approve the risk appetite, which is considered in the development of business strategies and forms the basis for enterprise risk management. 

&#8226; The core principles that define the Bancorp&#8217;s risk appetite are as follows: 

&#9702; Act with integrity in all activities. 

&#9702; Understand the risks taken and ensure that they are in alignment with the Bancorp&#8217;s business strategies and risk appetite. 

&#9702; Avoid risks that cannot be understood, managed or monitored. 

&#9702; Provide transparency of risk to the Bancorp&#8217;s management and Board by escalating risks and issues as necessary. 

&#9702; Ensure Fifth Third&#8217;s products and services are aligned to the Bancorp&#8217;s core customer base and are designed, delivered and maintained to provide value and benefit to the Bancorp&#8217;s customers and to Fifth Third. 

&#9702; Only offer products or services that are appropriate or suitable for the Bancorp&#8217;s customers. 

&#9702; Focus on providing operational excellence by providing reliable, accurate and efficient services to meet customers&#8217; needs. 

&#9702; Maintain a strong financial position to ensure the Bancorp meets its strategic objectives through all economic cycles and is able to access the capital markets at all times, even under stressed conditions. 

&#9702; Protect the Bancorp&#8217;s reputation by thoroughly understanding the consequences of business strategies, products and processes. 

&#9702; Conduct the Bancorp&#8217;s business in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and in alignment with internal policies and procedures. 

&#8226; Fifth Third&#8217;s core values and culture provide the foundation for supporting sound risk management practices by setting expectations for appropriate conduct and accountability across the organization. All employees are expected to conduct themselves in alignment with Fifth Third&#8217;s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which may be found on www.53.com, while carrying out their responsibilities. Fifth Third&#8217;s Management Compliance Committee provides oversight of business conduct policies, programs and strategies, and monitors reporting of potential misconduct, trends or themes across the enterprise. Prudent risk management is a responsibility that is expected from all employees and is a foundational element of Fifth Third&#8217;s culture. 

&#8226; The Bancorp manages eight defined risk types to a prescribed appetite. The risk types are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, price risk, legal and regulatory compliance risk, operational risk, reputation risk and strategic risk. 

&#8226; The Bancorp identifies and monitors existing and potential risks that may impact the company&#8217;s risk profile, including emerging risks that create uncertainties and/or would have broad implications if materialized (e.g., global pandemics, climate change, etc.). Enhanced monitoring and action plans are implemented as necessary to proactively mitigate risk. 

&#8226; Fifth Third&#8217;s Risk Management Process provides a consistent and integrated approach for managing risks. The five components of the Risk Management Process are: identify, assess, manage, monitor and report. The Bancorp has also established processes and programs to manage and report concentration risks, to ensure robust talent, performance and compensation management, and to aggregate risks across the enterprise. 

Fifth Third drives accountability for managing risk through its Three Lines of Defense structure: 

&#8226; The first line of defense is comprised of front-line units (and enterprise-wide functions that support front-line units) that create risk or are involved in risk-taking activities and are accountable for managing risk. These groups are the Bancorp&#8217;s primary risk takers and are responsible for implementing effective internal controls and maintaining processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the risks associated with their activities consistent with established risk appetite and limits. 

&#8226; The second line of defense, or Independent Risk Management, consists of Enterprise and Non-Financial Risk Management, Capital Markets Risk Management, Compliance, Financial Crimes, Model Risk Management, Credit Risk Management and Credit Risk Review. The second line is responsible for developing enterprise frameworks and policies to govern risk-taking activities, providing challenge and oversight of those activities, advising on controlling risk, assessing risks and issues independent of the first line of defense, and providing input on key risk decisions. Risk Management complements the front line&#8217;s management of risk-taking activities through its monitoring and reporting responsibilities, including adherence to the Bancorp Risk Appetite. Additionally, the second line of defense is responsible for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on aggregate risks enterprise-wide. 

&#8226; The third line of defense is Internal Audit, which provides oversight of the first and second lines of defense, and independent assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls. 

82 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 

Credit risk management utilizes a framework that encompasses consistent processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting credit risk. These processes are supported by a credit risk governance structure that includes Board oversight, policies, risk limits and risk committees. 

The objective of the Bancorp&#8217;s credit risk management strategy is to quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis, as well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations to the Bancorp. The Bancorp&#8217;s credit risk management strategy is based on three core principles: conservatism, diversification and monitoring. The Bancorp believes that effective credit risk management begins with conservative lending practices which are described below. These practices include the use of intentional risk-based limits for single name exposures and counterparty selection criteria designed to reduce or eliminate exposure to borrowers who have higher than average default risk and defined weaknesses in financial performance. The Bancorp carefully designs and monitors underwriting, documentation and collection standards. The Bancorp&#8217;s credit risk management strategy also emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry, product and customer level as well as ongoing portfolio monitoring and timely management reviews of large credit exposures and credits experiencing deterioration of credit quality. Credit officers with the authority to extend credit are delegated specific authority based on risk and exposure amount, the use of which is closely monitored. Underwriting activities are centrally managed, and Credit Risk Management manages the policy and the authority delegation process directly. The Credit Risk Review function provides independent and objective assessments of the quality of underwriting and documentation, the accuracy of risk ratings and the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve analysis process. The Bancorp&#8217;s credit review process and overall assessment of the adequacy of the ACL is based on quarterly assessments of the estimated losses expected in the loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp uses these assessments to maintain an adequate ACL and record any necessary charge-offs. Certain loans and leases with probable or observed credit weaknesses receive enhanced monitoring and undergo a periodic review. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Bancorp&#8217;s credit rating categories, which are derived from standard regulatory rating definitions. In addition, stress testing is performed on various commercial and consumer portfolios utilizing various models. For certain portfolios, such as real estate and leveraged lending, stress testing is performed at the individual loan level during credit underwriting. 

In addition to the individual review of larger commercial loans that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, the commercial credit review process includes the use of two risk rating systems. The first of these risk rating systems is based on regulatory guidance for credit risk rating systems. These ratings are used by the Bancorp to monitor and manage its credit risk. The Bancorp also separately maintains a dual risk rating system for credit approval and pricing, portfolio monitoring and capital allocation that includes a &#8220;through-the-cycle&#8221; rating philosophy for assessing a borrower&#8217;s creditworthiness. This &#8220;through-the-cycle&#8221; rating philosophy uses a grading scale that assigns ratings based on average default rates through an entire business cycle for borrowers with similar financial performance. The dual risk rating system includes thirteen categories for estimating probabilities of default and an additional eleven categories for estimating losses given an event of default. The probability of default and loss given default evaluations are not separated in the regulatory risk rating system. 

The Bancorp utilizes internally developed models to estimate expected credit losses for portfolio loans and leases. For loans and leases that are collectively evaluated, the Bancorp utilizes these models to forecast expected credit losses over a reasonable and supportable forecast period based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Bancorp&#8217;s processes for developing these models, for estimating credit losses for periods beyond the reasonable and supportable forecast period and for estimating credit losses for individually evaluated loans. 

For the commercial portfolio segment, the estimated probabilities of default are primarily based on the probability of default ratings assigned under the dual risk rating system and historical observations of how those ratings migrate to a default over time in the context of macroeconomic conditions. For loans with available credit, the estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected utilization rates, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. 

For collectively evaluated loans in the consumer and residential mortgage portfolio segments, the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models primarily utilize the borrower&#8217;s FICO score and delinquency history in combination with macroeconomic conditions when estimating the probability of default. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. The expected balance at the estimated date of default is also especially impactful in the expected credit loss models for portfolio classes which generally have longer terms (such as residential mortgage loans and home equity) and portfolio classes containing a high concentration of loans with revolving privileges (such as home equity). The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected prepayment and utilization rates where applicable, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The Bancorp also utilizes various scoring systems, analytical tools and portfolio performance monitoring processes to assess the credit risk of the consumer and residential mortgage portfolios. 

83 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Overview 

During 2023, economic growth remained resilient as fiscal deficit spending, solid job growth and gains in household wealth supported demand while tighter monetary policy and lower commodity prices led to an easing of inflation. The path to a &#8220;soft landing&#8221; continued to improve as the easing of inflationary pressures allowed the FOMC to pivot to a more balanced stance where both the inflation and unemployment mandates are equally important. As inflation gradually moves down towards its 2% target, the FOMC focus has shifted to balancing the risk associated with keeping rates too high for too long as it seeks a soft landing for the economy. 

It remains to be seen whether inflation can return sustainably to 2% without a period of below-potential growth and a softer labor market. The recent easing in financial conditions has supported growth and employment and the risk remains that inflation is more persistent than expected by the FOMC and financial markets. Heightened geopolitical tensions may also lead to increased economic uncertainty and volatility as well as higher commodity prices, potentially reversing some of the easing seen recently in headline inflation. Against this backdrop, tighter liquidity in the banking sector is limiting the supply of credit in the economy. Over time, these factors may adversely impact business investment, job growth and consumer spending which could lead to a recession. 

Loan Modifications to Borrowers Experiencing Financial Difficulty 

On January 1, 2023, the Bancorp adopted ASU 2022-02, which eliminated the accounting guidance on TDRs for creditors for all loan modifications to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty occurring on or after January 1, 2023. For further information on the Bancorp&#8217;s adoption of ASU 2022-02, refer to Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Commercial Portfolio 

The Bancorp&#8217;s credit risk management strategy seeks to minimize concentrations of risk through diversification. The Bancorp has commercial loan concentration limits based on industry, lines of business within the commercial segment, geography and credit product type. The risk within the commercial loan and lease portfolio is managed and monitored through an underwriting process utilizing detailed origination policies, continuous loan level reviews, monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and continuous portfolio risk management reporting. 

The Bancorp is closely monitoring various economic factors and their impacts on commercial borrowers, including, but not limited to, the level of inflation, higher-for-longer interest rates, labor and supply chain issues, volatility and changes in consumer discretionary spending patterns, including debt and default levels. The Bancorp maintains focus on disciplined client selection, adherence to underwriting policy and attention to concentrations. 

The Bancorp provides loans to a variety of customers ranging from large multinational firms to middle market businesses, sole proprietors and high net worth individuals. The origination policies for commercial and industrial loans outline the risks and underwriting requirements for loans to businesses in various industries. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization terms, collateral and leverage requirements, cash flow coverage measures and hold limits. The Bancorp aligns credit and sales teams with specific industry and regional expertise to better monitor and manage different industry and geographic segments of the portfolio. 

84 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table provides detail on commercial loans and leases by industry classification (as defined by the North American Industry Classification System), by loan size and by state, illustrating the diversity and granularity of the Bancorp&#8217;s commercial loans and leases: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 28: Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio (excluding loans and leases held for sale) 

2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding Exposure Nonaccrual Outstanding Exposure Nonaccrual By Industry: Real estate $ 12,558 &#160; 19,679 &#160; 4 &#160; 11,275 17,938 25 Financial services and insurance 9,998 &#160; 21,022 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 9,927 20,674 &#8212; Manufacturing 9,010 &#160; 19,101 &#160; 54 &#160; 11,024 21,174 88 Business services 5,917 &#160; 10,339 &#160; 50 &#160; 5,971 10,240 4 Healthcare 5,485 &#160; 7,831 &#160; 13 &#160; 5,576 7,838 28 Wholesale trade 5,259 &#160; 10,414 &#160; 6 &#160; 5,538 10,620 4 Accommodation and food 4,326 &#160; 6,946 &#160; 25 &#160; 4,340 7,028 10 Retail trade 3,953 &#160; 9,847 &#160; 85 &#160; 4,495 10,570 9 Communication and information 3,191 &#160; 6,482 &#160; 60 &#160; 3,428 6,944 &#8212; Mining 2,813 &#160; 5,940 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 3,634 6,811 &#8212; Construction 2,656 &#160; 6,391 &#160; 10 &#160; 2,945 6,265 15 Transportation and warehousing 2,382 &#160; 4,326 &#160; 5 &#160; 2,621 4,664 2 Utilities 1,850 &#160; 3,493 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1,862 4,172 &#8212; Entertainment and recreation 1,687 &#160; 2,964 &#160; 8 &#160; 1,729 3,053 67 Other services 1,181 &#160; 1,680 &#160; 6 &#160; 1,088 1,484 9 Agribusiness 300 &#160; 614 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 456 651 &#8212; Public administration 151 &#160; 240 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 343 451 1 Individuals 29 &#160; 77 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 76 117 &#8212; Other &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 61 62 1 Total $ 72,746 &#160; 137,386 &#160; 326 &#160; 76,389 140,756 263 By Loan Size: Less than $1 million 4 &#160; % 4 &#160; 19 &#160; 4 3 17 $1 million to $5 million 7 &#160; 6 &#160; 11 &#160; 7 6 12 $5 million to $10 million 5 &#160; 4 &#160; 5 &#160; 5 4 17 $10 million to $25 million 14 &#160; 11 &#160; 23 &#160; 14 12 28 $25 million to $50 million 24 &#160; 23 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 23 22 26 Greater than $50 million 46 &#160; 52 &#160; 42 &#160; 47 53 &#8212; Total 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; 100 &#160; 100 100 100 By State: California 10 &#160; % 8 &#160; 5 &#160; 9 8 3 Illinois 9 &#160; 8 &#160; 5 &#160; 9 9 30 Texas 9 &#160; 9 &#160; 1 &#160; 9 9 9 Ohio 8 &#160; 11 &#160; 6 &#160; 9 11 8 Florida 7 &#160; 7 &#160; 35 &#160; 7 7 6 New York 7 &#160; 6 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 6 6 &#8212; Michigan 5 &#160; 5 &#160; 3 &#160; 5 5 5 Georgia 4 &#160; 4 &#160; 21 &#160; 4 4 1 Indiana 3 &#160; 3 &#160; 1 &#160; 3 3 &#8212; Tennessee 3 &#160; 3 &#160; 1 &#160; 3 3 2 North Carolina 3 &#160; 3 &#160; 2 &#160; 3 2 2 South Carolina 2 &#160; 2 &#160; 1 &#160; 2 2 &#8212; Other 30 &#160; 31 &#160; 19 &#160; 31 31 34 Total 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; 100 &#160; 100 100 100 ##TABLE_END

The origination policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and underwriting requirements for owner and nonowner-occupied and construction lending. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization terms, maximum LTVs, minimum debt service coverage ratios, construction loan monitoring procedures, appraisal requirements, pre-leasing requirements (as applicable), pro forma analysis requirements and interest rate sensitivity. The Bancorp requires a valuation of real estate collateral, which may include third-party appraisals, be performed at the time of origination and renewal in accordance with regulatory requirements and on an as-needed basis when market conditions justify. The Bancorp maintains an appraisal review department to order and review third-party appraisals in accordance with regulatory requirements. Nonaccrual assets with relationships exceeding $1 million are reviewed quarterly to assess the appropriateness of the value ascribed in the assessment of charge-offs and specific reserves. Additionally, collateral values are also reviewed at least annually for all criticized assets. 

85 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The Bancorp assesses all real estate and non-real estate collateral securing a loan and considers all cross-collateralized loans in the calculation of the LTV ratio. The following tables provide detail on the most recent LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans greater than $1 million, excluding commercial mortgage loans that are individually evaluated for an ACL. The Bancorp does not typically aggregate the LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans less than $1 million. 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 29: Commercial Mortgage Loans Outstanding by LTV, Loans Greater Than $1 Million 

As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

LTV &#62; 100% LTV 80-100% LTV &#60; 80% Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans $ 53 &#160; 258 &#160; 3,257 &#160; Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 1 &#160; 29 &#160; 5,121 &#160; Total $ 54 &#160; 287 &#160; 8,378 &#160; ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 30: Commercial Mortgage Loans Outstanding by LTV, Loans Greater Than $1 Million 

As of December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

LTV &#62; 100% LTV 80-100% LTV &#60; 80% Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans $ 63 533 3,566 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 4 65 4,510 Total $ 67 598 8,076 ##TABLE_END

The Bancorp views nonowner-occupied commercial real estate as a higher credit risk product compared to some other commercial loan portfolios due to the higher volatility of the industry. 

The following tables provide an analysis of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans by state (excluding loans held for sale): 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 31: Nonowner-Occupied Commercial Real Estate (excluding loans held for sale) (a) 

As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2023 

Outstanding Exposure 90 Days Past Due Nonaccrual Net (Recoveries) Charge-offs By State: Illinois $ 1,524 &#160; 1,808 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Florida 1,242 &#160; 2,160 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; (2) Ohio 972 &#160; 1,377 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; South Carolina 927 &#160; 1,135 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Michigan 778 &#160; 1,100 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; California 730 &#160; 1,189 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Texas 696 &#160; 1,375 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; New York 490 &#160; 545 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Georgia 441 &#160; 809 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; All other states 2,932 &#160; 4,718 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; (1) Total $ 10,732 &#160; 16,216 &#160; &#8212; 3 &#160; (3) ##TABLE_END

(a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans in the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A. 

86 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 32: Nonowner-Occupied Commercial Real Estate (excluding loans held for sale) (a) 

As of December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2022 

Outstanding Exposure 90 Days Past Due Nonaccrual Net Charge-offs By State: Illinois $ 1,401 1,695 &#8212; 22 &#8212; Florida 1,127 1,864 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Ohio 1,061 1,462 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; South Carolina 739 996 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Michigan 837 1,145 &#8212; 1 &#8212; California 608 953 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Texas 788 1,356 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; New York 381 550 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Georgia 382 920 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; All other states 2,972 4,808 &#8212; 1 3 Total $ 10,296 15,749 &#8212; 24 3 ##TABLE_END

(a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans in the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A. 

Consumer Portfolio 

The Bancorp&#8217;s consumer portfolio is materially comprised of five categories of loans: residential mortgage loans, home equity, indirect secured consumer loans, credit card and other consumer loans. The Bancorp has identified certain credit characteristics within these five categories of loans which it believes represent a higher level of risk compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio. The Bancorp does not update LTVs for the consumer portfolio subsequent to origination except as part of the charge-off process for real estate secured loans. The Bancorp actively manages the consumer portfolio through concentration limits, which mitigate credit risk through limiting the exposure to lower FICO scores, higher LTVs, specific geographic concentration risks and additional risk elements. 

The Bancorp continues to ensure that underwriting standards and guidelines adequately account for the broader economic conditions that the consumer portfolio faces in a rising-rate environment. Guidelines are designed to ensure that the various consumer products fall within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk appetite. These guidelines are monitored and adjusted as deemed appropriate in response to the prevailing economic conditions while remaining within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk tolerance limits. 

The payment structures for certain variable rate products (such as residential mortgage loans, home equity and credit card) are susceptible to changes in benchmark interest rates. With increases in interest rates, minimum payments on these products also increase, raising the potential for the environment to be disruptive to some borrowers. The Bancorp actively monitors the portion of its consumer portfolio that is susceptible to increases in minimum payments and continues to assess the impact on the overall risk appetite and soundness of the portfolio. 

Residential mortgage portfolio 

The Bancorp manages credit risk in the residential mortgage portfolio through underwriting guidelines that limit exposure to loan characteristics determined to influence credit risk. Additionally, the portfolio is governed by concentration limits that ensure geographic, product and channel diversification. The Bancorp may also package and sell loans in the portfolio. 

The Bancorp does not originate residential mortgage loans that permit customers to make payments that are less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed-rate and ARM loans. Within the ARM portfolio, approximately $545 million of ARM loans will have rate resets during the next twelve months. Of these resets, 90% are expected to experience an increase in rate, with an average increase of approximately 1.65%. Underlying characteristics of these borrowers are relatively strong with a weighted-average origination DTI of 35% and weighted-average origination LTV of 72%. 

Certain residential mortgage products have characteristics that may increase the Bancorp&#8217;s credit loss rates in the event of a decline in housing values. These types of mortgage products offered by the Bancorp include loans with high LTVs, multiple loans secured by the same collateral that when combined result in an LTV greater than 80% and interest-only loans. The Bancorp has deemed residential mortgage loans with greater than 80% LTVs and no mortgage insurance as loans that represent a higher level of risk. 

87 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table provides an analysis of the residential mortgage portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination as of: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 33: Residential Mortgage Portfolio Loans by LTV at Origination 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV LTV &#8804; 80% $ 11,718 &#160; 62.7 &#160; % $ 12,395 61.9 % 

LTV &#62; 80%, with mortgage insurance (a) 

2,996 &#160; 95.1 &#160; 3,092 94.7 LTV &#62; 80%, no mortgage insurance 2,312 &#160; 91.1 &#160; 2,141 90.5 Total $ 17,026 &#160; 72.4 &#160; % $ 17,628 71.3 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes loans with either borrower or lender paid mortgage insurance. 

The following tables provide an analysis of the residential mortgage portfolio loans outstanding by state with a greater than 80% LTV at origination and no mortgage insurance: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 34: Residential Mortgage Portfolio Loans, LTV Greater Than 80% at Origination, No Mortgage Insurance 

As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2023 

Outstanding 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Nonaccrual Net (Recoveries) Charge-offs By State: Ohio $ 512 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 8 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Illinois 462 &#160; 1 &#160; 4 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Florida 407 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; (1) Michigan 167 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Indiana 166 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; &#160; North Carolina 163 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Kentucky 123 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; All other states 312 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 5 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Total $ 2,312 &#160; 1 &#160; 23 &#160; (1) ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START TABLE 35: Residential Mortgage Portfolio Loans, LTV Greater Than 80% at Origination, No Mortgage Insurance 

As of December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2022 

Outstanding 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Nonaccrual Net Charge-offs By State: Ohio $ 500 1 9 &#8212; Illinois 430 &#8212; 5 &#8212; Florida 347 &#8212; 3 &#8212; Michigan 163 &#8212; 2 &#8212; Indiana 157 &#8212; 2 &#8212; North Carolina 147 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Kentucky 112 &#8212; 1 &#8212; All other states 285 &#8212; 7 &#8212; Total $ 2,141 1 29 &#8212; ##TABLE_END

Home equity portfolio 

The Bancorp&#8217;s home equity portfolio is primarily comprised of home equity lines of credit. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, the Bancorp&#8217;s newly originated home equity lines of credit have a 10-year interest-only draw period followed by a 20-year amortization period. The home equity line of credit previously offered by the Bancorp was a revolving facility with a 20-year term, minimum payments of interest-only and a balloon payment of principal at maturity. Approximately 28% of the outstanding balances of the Bancorp&#8217;s portfolio of home equity lines of credit have a balloon structure at maturity. Peak maturity years for the balloon home equity lines of credit are 2025 to 2028 and approximately 8% of the balances mature before 2025. 

The ACL provides coverage for expected losses in the home equity portfolio. The allowance attributable to the portion of the home equity portfolio that is collectively evaluated is determined on a pooled basis using a probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default model framework to generate expected losses. The expected losses for the home equity portfolio are dependent upon loan delinquency, FICO scores, LTV, loan age and their historical correlation with macroeconomic variables including unemployment and the home price index. The expected losses generated from models are adjusted by certain qualitative adjustment factors to reflect risks associated 

88 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

with current conditions and trends. The qualitative factors include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, economic conditions, portfolio mix, lending and risk management personnel, results of internal audit and quality control reviews, collateral values and geographic concentrations. 

The home equity portfolio is managed in two primary groups: loans outstanding with a combined LTV greater than 80% and those loans with an LTV of 80% or less based upon appraisals at origination. For additional information on these loans, refer to Table 37 and Table 38. Of the total $3.9 billion of outstanding home equity loans: 

&#8226; 76% reside within the Bancorp&#8217;s Midwest footprint of Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky as of December 31, 2023; 

&#8226; 34% are in senior lien positions and 66% are in junior lien positions at December 31, 2023; 

&#8226; 75% of non-delinquent borrowers made at least one payment greater than the minimum payment during the year ended December 31, 2023; and 

&#8226; The portfolio had a weighted-average refreshed FICO score of 748 at December 31, 2023. 

The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes adjustments in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based on FICO score deterioration and property devaluation. The Bancorp does not routinely obtain appraisals on performing loans to update LTVs after origination. However, the Bancorp monitors the local housing markets by reviewing various home price indices and incorporates the impact of the changing market conditions in its ongoing credit monitoring processes. For junior lien home equity loans which become 60 days or more past due, the Bancorp tracks the performance of the senior lien loans in which the Bancorp is the servicer and utilizes consumer credit bureau attributes to monitor the status of the senior lien loans that the Bancorp does not service. If the senior lien loan is found to be 120 days or more past due, the junior lien home equity loan is placed on nonaccrual status unless both loans are well-secured and in the process of collection. Additionally, if the junior lien home equity loan becomes 120 days or more past due and the senior lien loan is also 120 days or more past due, the junior lien home equity loan is assessed for charge-off. Refer to the Analysis of Nonperforming Assets subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

The following table provides an analysis of home equity portfolio loans outstanding disaggregated based upon refreshed FICO score: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 36: Home Equity Portfolio Loans Outstanding by Refreshed FICO Score 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding % of Total Outstanding % of Total Senior Liens: FICO &#8804; 659 $ 109 &#160; 2 &#160; % $ 122 3 % FICO 660-719 187 &#160; 5 &#160; 205 5 FICO &#8805; 720 1,052 &#160; 27 &#160; 1,262 31 Total senior liens $ 1,348 &#160; 34 &#160; % $ 1,589 39 % Junior Liens: FICO &#8804; 659 218 &#160; 6 &#160; 211 5 FICO 660-719 460 &#160; 12 &#160; 433 11 FICO &#8805; 720 1,890 &#160; 48 &#160; 1,806 45 Total junior liens $ 2,568 &#160; 66 &#160; % $ 2,450 61 % Total $ 3,916 &#160; 100 &#160; % $ 4,039 100 % ##TABLE_END

The Bancorp believes that home equity portfolio loans with a greater than 80% LTV (including senior liens, if applicable) present a higher level of risk. The following table provides an analysis of the home equity portfolio loans outstanding in a senior and junior lien position by LTV at origination: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 37: Home Equity Portfolio Loans Outstanding by LTV at Origination 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV Senior Liens: LTV &#8804; 80% $ 1,194 &#160; 50.8 &#160; % $ 1,395 52.1 % LTV &#62; 80% 154 &#160; 88.9 &#160; 194 88.8 Total senior liens $ 1,348 &#160; 55.4 &#160; % $ 1,589 56.8 % Junior Liens: LTV &#8804; 80% 1,768 &#160; 64.9 &#160; 1,628 65.6 LTV &#62; 80% 800 &#160; 88.7 &#160; 822 89.2 Total junior liens $ 2,568 &#160; 72.7 &#160; % $ 2,450 74.1 % Total $ 3,916 &#160; 66.7 &#160; % $ 4,039 67.2 % ##TABLE_END

89 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following tables provide an analysis of home equity portfolio loans outstanding by state with a LTV greater than 80% (including senior liens, if applicable) at origination: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 38: Home Equity Portfolio Loans Outstanding with an LTV Greater than 80% at Origination 

As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2023 

Outstanding Exposure 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Nonaccrual Net (Recoveries) Charge-offs By State: Ohio $ 290 &#160; 808 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 6 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Illinois 145 &#160; 346 &#160; 1 &#160; 4 &#160; (1) Michigan 140 &#160; 394 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Indiana 96 &#160; 252 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Florida 86 &#160; 206 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Kentucky 81 &#160; 211 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; All other states 116 &#160; 304 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 3 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Total $ 954 &#160; 2,521 &#160; 1 &#160; 20 &#160; (1) ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START TABLE 39: Home Equity Portfolio Loans Outstanding with an LTV Greater than 80% at Origination 

As of December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

For the Year Ended 

December 31, 2022 

Outstanding Exposure 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Nonaccrual Net (Recoveries) Charge-offs By State: Ohio $ 315 859 &#8212; 8 (1) Illinois 165 367 1 4 (1) Michigan 160 432 &#8212; 3 (1) Indiana 99 260 &#8212; 2 &#8212; Florida 77 191 &#8212; 2 &#8212; Kentucky 84 219 &#8212; 1 &#8212; All other states 116 295 &#8212; 3 (1) Total $ 1,016 2,623 1 23 (4) ##TABLE_END

Indirect secured consumer portfolio 

The indirect secured consumer portfolio is comprised of $11.9 billion of automobile loans and $3.1 billion of indirect motorcycle, powersport, recreational vehicle and marine loans as of December 31, 2023. All concentration and guideline changes are monitored monthly to ensure alignment with original credit performance and return projections. 

The following table provides an analysis of indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding disaggregated based upon FICO score at 

origination: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 40: Indirect Secured Consumer Portfolio Loans Outstanding by FICO Score at Origination 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) &#160; Outstanding % of Total Outstanding % of Total FICO &#8804; 659 $ 189 &#160; 1 &#160; % $ 248 1 % FICO 660-719 3,075 &#160; 21 &#160; 3,564 22 FICO &#8805; 720 11,701 &#160; 78 &#160; 12,740 77 Total $ 14,965 &#160; 100 &#160; % $ 16,552 100 % ##TABLE_END

It is a common industry practice to advance on these types of loans an amount in excess of the collateral value due to the inclusion of negative equity trade-in, maintenance/warranty products, taxes, title and other fees paid at closing. The Bancorp monitors its exposure to these higher risk loans. 

90 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table provides an analysis of indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 41: Indirect Secured Consumer Portfolio Loans Outstanding by LTV at Origination 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV Outstanding Weighted-Average LTV LTV &#8804; 100% $ 10,976 &#160; 79.6 &#160; % $ 12,087 79.6 % LTV &#62; 100% 3,989 &#160; 110.2 &#160; 4,465 110.5 Total $ 14,965 &#160; 87.7 &#160; % $ 16,552 87.9 % ##TABLE_END

The following table provides an analysis of the Bancorp&#8217;s indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding with an LTV greater than 100% at origination as of and for the years ended: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 42: Indirect Secured Consumer Portfolio Loans Outstanding with an LTV Greater than 100% at Origination ($ in millions) Outstanding 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Nonaccrual Net Charge-offs December 31, 2023 $ 3,989 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 18 &#160; 40 &#160; December 31, 2022 4,465 &#8212; 16 23 ##TABLE_END

Credit card portfolio 

The credit card portfolio consists of predominantly prime accounts with 98% of balances existing within the Bancorp&#8217;s footprint at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, 71% and 72%, respectively, of the outstanding balances were originated through branch-based relationships with the remainder coming from direct mail campaigns and online acquisitions. 

Given the variable nature of the credit card portfolio, interest rate increases impact this product and it is regularly monitored to ensure the portfolio remains within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk tolerance. 

The following table provides an analysis of the Bancorp&#8217;s outstanding credit card portfolio disaggregated based upon FICO score at origination: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 43: Credit Card Portfolio Loans Outstanding by FICO Score at Origination &#160; 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding % of Total Outstanding % of Total FICO &#8804; 659 $ 75 &#160; 4 &#160; % $ 80 4 % FICO 660-719 503 &#160; 27 &#160; 528 28 FICO &#8805; 720 1,287 &#160; 69 &#160; 1,266 68 Total $ 1,865 &#160; 100 &#160; % $ 1,874 100 % ##TABLE_END

Other consumer portfolio loans 

Other consumer portfolio loans are comprised of secured and unsecured loans originated through the Bancorp&#8217;s branch network, point-of-sale solar energy installation and home improvement loans originated through a network of contractors and installers, and other point-of-sale loans originated or purchased in connection with third-party companies. Loans originated in connection with one third-party point-of-sale company are impacted by certain credit loss protection coverage provided by that company. The Bancorp discontinued origination of new loans with this third-party company in September 2022. 

The following table provides an analysis of other consumer portfolio loans outstanding by product type: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 44: Other Consumer Portfolio Loans Outstanding by Product Type &#160; 2023 2022 As of December 31 ($ in millions) Outstanding % of Total Outstanding % of Total Point-of-sale, primarily solar energy installation $ 4,537 &#160; 68 &#160; % $ 2,297 46 % Third-party point-of-sale 825 &#160; 12 &#160; 1,262 25 Other secured 892 &#160; 13 &#160; 909 18 Unsecured 462 &#160; 7 &#160; 530 11 Total $ 6,716 &#160; 100 &#160; % $ 4,998 100 % ##TABLE_END

91 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Analysis of Nonperforming Assets 

Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal and/or interest is uncertain and certain other assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. A summary of nonperforming assets is included in Table 45. For further information on the Bancorp&#8217;s policies related to accounting for delinquent and nonperforming loans and leases, refer to the Nonaccrual Loans and Leases section of Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Nonperforming assets were $689 million at December 31, 2023 compared to $539 million at December 31, 2022. Nonperforming portfolio assets as a percent of portfolio loans and leases and OREO were 0.59% and 0.44% at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Nonaccrual loans and leases secured by real estate were 32% of nonaccrual loans and leases as of December 31, 2023 compared to 42% as of December 31, 2022. 

Portfolio commercial nonaccrual loans and leases were $326 million at December 31, 2023, an increase of $63 million from December 31, 2022. Portfolio consumer nonaccrual loans were $323 million at December 31, 2023, an increase of $71 million from December 31, 2022. Refer to Table 46 for a rollforward of portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases. 

OREO and other repossessed property was $39 million and $24 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Bancorp recognized $8 million and an immaterial amount in losses on the transfer, sale or write-down of OREO properties during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $54 million and $34 million, respectively, of interest income would have been recognized if the nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases had been current in accordance with their contractual terms. Although these values help demonstrate the costs of carrying nonaccrual credits, the Bancorp does not expect to recover the full amount of interest as nonaccrual loans and leases are generally carried below their principal balance. 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 45: Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Delinquent Loans and Leases 

As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans $ 304 &#160; 215 Commercial mortgage loans 20 &#160; 40 Commercial construction loans 1 &#160; 8 Commercial leases 1 &#160; &#8212; Residential mortgage loans 124 &#160; 124 Home equity 57 &#160; 67 Indirect secured consumer loans 36 &#160; 29 Credit card 34 &#160; 27 Other consumer loans 72 &#160; 5 

Total nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases (a) 

649 &#160; 515 

OREO and other repossessed property (c) 

39 &#160; 24 Total nonperforming portfolio loans and leases and OREO 688 &#160; 539 Nonaccrual loans held for sale 1 &#160; &#8212; Total nonperforming assets $ 689 &#160; 539 Total portfolio loans and leases 90 days past due and still accruing: Commercial and industrial loans $ 8 &#160; 11 Commercial leases &#8212; &#160; 2 Residential mortgage loans (b) 

7 &#160; 7 Home equity &#8212; &#160; 1 Credit card 21 &#160; 18 Other consumer loans &#8212; &#160; 1 Total portfolio loans and leases 90 days past due and still accruing $ 36 &#160; 40 Nonperforming portfolio assets as a percent of portfolio loans and leases and OREO 0.59 &#160; % 0.44 Nonperforming portfolio loans and leases as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 0.55 &#160; 0.42 ACL as a percent of nonperforming portfolio loans and leases 383 &#160; 468 ACL as a percent of nonperforming portfolio assets 362 &#160; 447 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $19 and $15 of nonaccrual government-insured commercial loans whose repayments are insured by the SBA as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

(b) Information for all periods presented excludes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. These advances were $141 and $212 as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Bancorp recognized losses of $2 for both the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 due to claim denials and curtailments associated with these insured or guaranteed loans. 

(c) Includes $20 and $10 of branch-related real estate no longer intended to be used for banking purposes as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

92 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following tables provide a rollforward of portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases, by portfolio segment: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 46: Rollforward of Portfolio Nonaccrual Loans and Leases 

For the year ended December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

Commercial Residential Mortgage Consumer Total Balance, beginning of period $ 263 &#160; 124 &#160; 128 &#160; 515 &#160; Transfers to nonaccrual status 452 &#160; 68 &#160; 401 &#160; 921 &#160; Transfers to accrual status (59) (29) (85) (173) Transfers to held for sale (10) &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; (10) Loan paydowns/payoffs (158) (34) (65) (257) Transfers to OREO &#8212; &#160; (9) (12) (21) Charge-offs (170) &#8212; &#160; (169) (339) Draws/other extensions of credit 8 &#160; 4 &#160; 1 &#160; 13 &#160; Balance, end of period $ 326 &#160; 124 &#160; 199 &#160; 649 &#160; ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 47: Rollforward of Portfolio Nonaccrual Loans and Leases 

For the year ended December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

Commercial Residential Mortgage Consumer Total Balance, beginning of period $ 337 33 128 498 Transfers to nonaccrual status 262 146 154 562 Transfers to accrual status (7) (28) (65) (100) Transfers to held for sale (23) &#8212; &#8212; (23) Loan paydowns/payoffs (180) (23) (52) (255) Transfers to OREO &#8212; (6) &#8212; (6) Charge-offs (131) (1) (37) (169) Draws/other extensions of credit 5 3 &#8212; 8 Balance, end of period $ 263 124 128 515 ##TABLE_END

Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs 

Net charge-offs were 32 bps and 19 bps of average portfolio loans and leases for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Table 48 provides a summary of credit loss experience and net charge-offs as a percentage of average portfolio loans and leases outstanding by loan category. 

The ratio of commercial loan and lease net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio commercial loans and leases increased to 20 bps during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 13 bps during 2022 primarily due to an increase in net charge-offs on commercial and industrial loans of $59 million. 

The ratio of consumer loan net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio consumer loans increased to 52 bps during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 29 bps during 2022 primarily due to increases in net charge-offs on other consumer loans, indirect secured consumer loans and credit card of $56 million, $36 million and $12 million, respectively. 

93 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 48: Summary of Credit Loss Experience 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Losses charged-off: Commercial and industrial loans $ (168) (121) (103) Commercial mortgage loans (1) &#8212; (13) Commercial construction loans (1) (3) &#8212; Commercial leases &#8212; &#160; (7) (3) Residential mortgage loans (4) (3) (3) Home equity (8) (9) (7) Indirect secured consumer loans (110) (68) (51) Credit card (82) (68) (91) Other consumer loans (a) 

(148) (83) (73) Total losses charged-off $ (522) (362) (344) Recoveries of losses previously charged-off: Commercial and industrial loans $ 13 &#160; 25 43 Commercial mortgage loans 3 &#160; 1 5 Commercial construction loans &#8212; &#160; 1 &#8212; Commercial leases 1 &#160; 3 4 Residential mortgage loans 4 &#160; 5 7 Home equity 7 &#160; 11 11 Indirect secured consumer loans 38 &#160; 32 37 Credit card 18 &#160; 16 21 Other consumer loans (a) 

50 &#160; 41 42 Total recoveries of losses previously charged-off $ 134 &#160; 135 170 Net losses charged-off: Commercial and industrial loans $ (155) (96) (60) Commercial mortgage loans 2 &#160; 1 (8) Commercial construction loans (1) (2) &#8212; Commercial leases 1 &#160; (4) 1 Residential mortgage loans &#8212; &#160; 2 4 Home equity (1) 2 4 Indirect secured consumer loans (72) (36) (14) Credit card (64) (52) (70) Other consumer loans (98) (42) (31) Total net losses charged-off $ (388) (227) (174) Net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans 0.27 &#160; % 0.17 0.12 Commercial mortgage loans (0.02) (0.01) 0.08 Commercial construction loans 0.02 &#160; 0.04 &#8212; Commercial leases (0.04) 0.13 (0.02) Total commercial loans and leases 0.20 &#160; % 0.13 0.10 Residential mortgage loans &#8212; &#160; (0.01) (0.03) Home equity 0.03 &#160; (0.05) (0.09) Indirect secured consumer loans 0.45 &#160; 0.21 0.09 Credit card 3.55 &#160; 2.98 3.93 Other consumer loans 1.63 &#160; 1.15 1.06 Total consumer loans 0.52 &#160; % 0.29 0.26 Total net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases 0.32 &#160; % 0.19 0.16 ##TABLE_END

(a) For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp recorded $35, $32 and $33, respectively, in both losses charged-off and recoveries of losses previously charged-off related to customer defaults on point-of-sale consumer loans for which the Bancorp obtained recoveries under third-party credit enhancements. 

Allowance for Credit Losses 

The allowance for credit losses is comprised of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. As described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb the amount of credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the remaining contractual terms of the related loans and leases (as adjusted for prepayments). The Bancorp&#8217;s methodology for determining the ALLL includes an estimate of expected credit losses on a collective basis for groups of loans and leases with similar risk characteristics and specific allowances for loans and leases which are individually evaluated. For collectively evaluated loans and leases, the Bancorp uses quantitative models to forecast expected credit losses based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected 

94 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. The Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models consider historical credit loss experience, current market and economic conditions, and forecasted changes in market and economic conditions if such forecasts are considered reasonable and supportable. 

The Bancorp also considers qualitative factors in determining the ALLL. Qualitative adjustments are used to capture characteristics in the portfolio that impact expected credit losses which are not fully captured within the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models. These factors include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, lending and risk management personnel and results of internal audit and quality control reviews. In addition, the qualitative adjustment framework can be utilized to address specific idiosyncratic risks such as geopolitical events, natural disasters or changes in current economic conditions that are not reflected in the quantitative credit loss models, and their effects on regional borrowers and changes in product structures. Qualitative factors may also be used to address the impacts of unforeseen events on key inputs and assumptions within the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models, such as the reasonable and supportable forecast period, changes to historical loss information or changes to the reversion period or methodology. 

In addition to the ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a reserve for unfunded commitments recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The methodology used to determine the adequacy of this reserve is similar to the Bancorp&#8217;s methodology for determining the ALLL. The provision for unfunded commitments is included in the provision for credit losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

For the commercial portfolio segment, the estimates for probability of default are primarily based on internal ratings assigned to each commercial borrower on a 13-point scale and historical observations of how those ratings migrate to a default over time in the context of macroeconomic conditions. For loans with available credit, the estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected utilization rates, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. 

For collectively evaluated loans in the consumer and residential mortgage portfolio segments, the Bancorp&#8217;s expected credit loss models primarily utilize the borrower&#8217;s FICO score and delinquency history in combination with macroeconomic conditions when estimating the probability of default. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. The expected balance at the estimated date of default is also especially impactful in the expected credit loss models for portfolio classes which generally have longer terms (such as residential mortgage loans and home equity) and portfolio classes containing a high concentration of loans with revolving privileges (such as home equity). The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected prepayment and utilization rates where applicable, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. 

At both December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Bancorp used three forward-looking economic scenarios during the reasonable and supportable forecast period in its expected credit loss models to address the inherent imprecision in macroeconomic forecasting. Each of the three scenarios was developed by a third party that is subject to the Bancorp&#8217;s Third-Party Risk Management program including oversight by the Bancorp&#8217;s independent model risk management group. The scenarios included a most likely outcome (Baseline) and two less probable scenarios with one being more favorable than the Baseline and the other being less favorable. The more favorable alternative scenario (Upside) depicted a stronger near-term growth outlook while the less favorable outlook (Downside) depicted a moderate recession. 

The Baseline scenario was developed such that the expectation is that the economy will perform better than the projection 50% of the time and worse than the projection 50% of the time. The Upside scenario was developed such that there is a 10% probability that the economy will perform better than the projection and a 90% probability that it will perform worse. The Downside scenario was developed such that there is a 90% probability that the economy will perform better than the projection and a 10% probability that it will perform worse. 

December 31, 2023 ACL 

The ACL as of December 31, 2023 was impacted by lower portfolio loan and lease balances, primarily concentrated in the commercial portfolio segment, and a shift in product mix from lower rate products to higher rate products compared to December 31, 2022. As a result of these factors, the Bancorp incorporated a combination of quantitative model-based estimates and qualitative adjustments. As of December 31, 2023, the Bancorp&#8217;s economic scenarios included estimates of the expected impacts of the changes in economic conditions caused by high interest rate pressures and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. At December 31, 2023, the Bancorp assigned an 80% probability weighting to the Baseline scenario and 10% to each of the Upside and Downside scenarios. 

The Baseline scenario assumed average annualized real GDP growth of 1.7% in both 2024 and 2025 and increasing to an average of 2.2% in 2026. The Baseline scenario also assumed an average unemployment rate of 4.0% in the forecast for 2024, 4.1% in 2025 and 4.0% in 2026. Relative to the target federal funds rate, the Baseline scenario assumed that it has reached its terminal range with cuts beginning in 2024. The average federal funds rate assumed was 5.1% in 2024 then decreasing to 4.2% and 3.2% in 2025 and 2026, respectively. Lastly, the Baseline scenario included a moderately cautious outlook for corporate profits with the average percentage year-over-year change increasing to 1.6% in 2024, followed by some contraction at (1.4%) in 2025 and a subsequent recovery to 2.9% in 2026. The Upside scenario assumed that, on an average annual basis, the change in real GDP would be 3.2% in 2024, decreasing to an average of 2.7% and 2.4% in 2025 and 2026, respectively. The Upside scenario assumed a slightly better unemployment rate forecast at an annual average of 3.1%, 3.3% and 3.4% in 

95 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

2024, 2025 and 2026, respectively. In the Upside scenario, the forecast for the federal funds rate was generally consistent with the Baseline scenario. The Upside scenario assumed a notable improvement in corporate profits for 2024 at an average percentage change from 2023 of 4.6%, contracting to an average of 1.9% in 2025 and recovering to an average of 2.7% in 2026. The Downside scenario assumed that the U.S. economy falls into a recession in the first quarter of 2024. The Downside scenario assumed average annualized real GDP growth for 2024 at (0.9%), improving to an average of 0.3% in 2025 and further recovering to an average of 2.8% in 2026. The Downside scenario unemployment rate peaks at an average of 7.7% in the first quarter of 2025 and decreases to an average of 6.1% in 2026. In the Downside scenario, the forecast for the federal funds rate included more favorable assumptions than the Baseline at an average target rate of 4.4% in 2024, rapidly decreasing to an average target rate of 1.8% and 1.3% in 2025 and 2026, respectively. Lastly, the Downside scenario assumed a significant decrease in corporate profits at an average percentage change from a year ago of (20.0%) for 2024, followed by another contraction at a rate of (2.7%) in 2025 and recovering to an average of 9.5% in 2026. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s quantitative credit loss models are sensitive to changes in economic forecast assumptions over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. Applying a 100% probability weighting to the Downside scenario rather than using the probability-weighted three scenario approach would result in an increase in the quantitative ACL of approximately $2.1 billion. This sensitivity calculation only reflects the impact of changing the probability weighting of the scenarios in the quantitative credit loss models and excludes any additional considerations associated with the qualitative component of the ACL that might be warranted if probability weights were adjusted. 

The following table provides a rollforward of the Bancorp&#8217;s ACL: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 49: Changes in Allowance for Credit Losses 

For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 

2021 

ALLL: Balance, beginning of period $ 2,194 &#160; 1,892 2,453 Impact of adoption of ASU 2022-02 (b) 

(49) &#8212; &#8212; Losses charged-off (a) 

(522) (362) (344) Recoveries of losses previously charged-off (a) 

134 &#160; 135 170 Provision for (benefit from) loan and lease losses 565 &#160; 529 (387) Balance, end of period $ 2,322 &#160; 2,194 1,892 Reserve for unfunded commitments: Balance, beginning of period $ 216 &#160; 182 172 (Benefit from) provision for the reserve for unfunded commitments (50) 34 10 Balance, end of period $ 166 &#160; 216 182 ##TABLE_END

(a) For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp recorded $35, $32 and $33, respectively, in both losses charged-off and recoveries of losses previously charged-off related to customer defaults on point-of-sale consumer loans for which the Bancorp obtained recoveries under third-party credit enhancements. 

(b) Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

96 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table provides an attribution of the Bancorp&#8217;s ALLL to portfolio loans and leases: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 50: Attribution of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses to Portfolio Loans and Leases 

As of December 31 ($ in millions) 2023 

Attributed ALLL: Commercial and industrial loans $ 767 &#160; 776 Commercial mortgage loans 284 &#160; 246 Commercial construction loans 66 &#160; 90 Commercial leases 13 &#160; 15 Residential mortgage loans 145 &#160; 245 Home equity 102 &#160; 133 Indirect secured consumer loans 271 &#160; 187 Credit card 227 &#160; 254 Other consumer loans 447 &#160; 248 Total ALLL $ 2,322 &#160; 2,194 Portfolio loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans $ 53,270 &#160; 57,232 Commercial mortgage loans 11,276 &#160; 11,020 Commercial construction loans 5,621 &#160; 5,433 Commercial leases 2,579 &#160; 2,704 Residential mortgage loans (a) 

17,026 &#160; 17,628 Home equity 3,916 &#160; 4,039 Indirect secured consumer loans 14,965 &#160; 16,552 Credit card 1,865 &#160; 1,874 Other consumer loans 6,716 &#160; 4,998 Total portfolio loans and leases $ 117,234 &#160; 121,480 Attributed ALLL as a percent of respective portfolio loans and leases: Commercial and industrial loans 1.44 &#160; % 1.36 Commercial mortgage loans 2.52 &#160; 2.23 Commercial construction loans 1.17 &#160; 1.66 Commercial leases 0.50 &#160; 0.55 Residential mortgage loans 0.85 &#160; 1.39 Home equity 2.60 &#160; 3.29 Indirect secured consumer loans 1.81 &#160; 1.13 Credit card 12.17 &#160; 13.55 Other consumer loans 6.66 &#160; 4.96 Total ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 1.98 &#160; % 1.81 Total ACL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 2.12 &#160; 1.98 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $116 and $123 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s ALLL may vary significantly from period to period based on changes in economic conditions, economic forecasts and the composition and credit quality of the Bancorp&#8217;s loan and lease portfolio. For additional information on the Bancorp&#8217;s methodology for measuring the ACL, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

97 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

INTEREST RATE AND PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT 

Interest rate risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from movement of interest rates. This risk primarily impacts the Bancorp&#8217;s income categories through changes in interest income on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, and through fee items that are related to interest-sensitive activities such as mortgage origination and servicing income and through earnings credits earned on commercial deposits that offset commercial deposit fees. Price risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the value of financial instruments and portfolios due to movements in interest rates, volatilities, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices. Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market risk in terms of its potential impact on earnings. Interest rate risk may occur for any one or more of the following reasons: 

&#8226; Assets and liabilities mature or reprice at different times; 

&#8226; Short-term and long-term market interest rates change by different amounts; or 

&#8226; The expected maturities of various assets or liabilities shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. 

In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on NII and interest-sensitive fees, interest rates can impact earnings through their effect on loan and deposit demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volumes, the value of servicing rights and other sources of the Bancorp&#8217;s earnings. Changes in interest rates and other market factors can impact earnings through changes in the value of portfolios, if not appropriately hedged. Stability of the Bancorp&#8217;s net income is largely dependent upon the effective management of interest rate risk and to a lesser extent price risk. Management continually reviews the Bancorp&#8217;s on- and off-balance sheet composition, earnings flows, and hedging strategies and models interest rate risk and price risk exposures, and possible actions to manage these risks, given numerous possible future interest rate and market factor scenarios. A series of policy limits and key risk indicators are employed to ensure that risks are managed within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk tolerance for interest rate risk and price risk. 

The Commercial Banking and Wealth and Asset Management lines of business manage price risk for capital markets sales and trading activities related to their respective businesses. The Consumer and Small Business Banking line of business manages price risk for the origination and sale of conforming residential mortgage loans to government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises. The Bancorp&#8217;s Treasury department manages interest rate risk and price risk for all other activities. Independent oversight is provided by ERM, and key risk indicators and Board-approved policy limits are used to ensure risks are managed within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk tolerance. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s Market Risk Management Committee, which includes senior management representatives and reports to the Corporate Credit Committee (accountable to the ERMC), provides oversight and monitors price risk for the capital markets sales and trading activities. The Bancorp&#8217;s ALCO, which includes senior management representatives and is accountable to the ERMC, provides oversight and monitors interest rate and price risks for Mortgage and Treasury activities. 

Net Interest Income Sensitivity 

The Bancorp employs a variety of measurement techniques to identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an NII simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of NII to changes in interest rates. The model is based on contractual and estimated cash flows and repricing characteristics for all of the Bancorp&#8217;s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures and incorporates market-based assumptions regarding the effect of changing interest rates on the prepayment rates of certain assets and attrition rates of certain liabilities. The model also includes senior management&#8217;s projections of the future volume and pricing of each of the product lines offered by the Bancorp as well as other pertinent assumptions. The NII simulation model does not represent a forecast of the Bancorp&#8217;s net interest income but is a tool utilized to assess the risk of the impact of changing market interest rates across a range of market interest rate environments. As a result, actual results will differ from simulated results for multiple reasons, which may include actual balance sheet composition differences, timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, deviations from projected customer behavioral assumptions as well as from changes in market conditions and management strategies. 

As of December 31, 2023, the Bancorp&#8217;s interest rate risk exposure is governed by a risk framework that utilizes the change in NII over 12-month and 24-month horizons under parallel ramped increases and decreases in interest rates. Policy limits are utilized for scenarios assuming a 200 bps increase and a 200 bps decrease in interest rates over twelve months. The Bancorp routinely analyzes various potential and extreme scenarios, including parallel ramps and shocks as well as steepening and other non-parallel shifts in rates, to assess where risks to net interest income persist or develop as changes in the balance sheet and market rates evolve, and employs policy limits and/or key risk indicators to monitor and manage exposures under these types of scenarios. Additionally, the Bancorp routinely evaluates its exposures to changes in the bases between interest rates. 

In order to recognize the risk of noninterest-bearing demand deposit balance migration or attrition in a rising interest rate environment, the Bancorp&#8217;s NII sensitivity modeling assumes additional attrition of approximately $800 million of demand deposit balances over a period of 24 months for each 100 bps increase in short-term market interest rates. Similarly, the Bancorp&#8217;s NII sensitivity modeling incorporates approximately $800 million of incremental growth in noninterest-bearing deposit balances over 24 months for each 100 bps decrease in short-term market interest rates. The incremental balance attrition and growth are modeled to flow into and out of funding products that reprice in conjunction with short-term market rate changes. 

98 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Another important deposit modeling assumption is the amount by which interest-bearing deposit rates will increase or decrease when market interest rates increase or decrease. This deposit repricing sensitivity is known as the beta, and it represents the expected amount by which the Bancorp&#8217;s interest-bearing deposit rates will change for a given change in short-term market rates. The Bancorp utilizes dynamic deposit beta models to adjust assumed repricing sensitivity depending on market rate levels. The dynamic beta models were developed utilizing the Bancorp&#8217;s performance during prior interest rate cycles. Since the beginning of the current tightening cycle, the Bancorp&#8217;s actual cumulative interest-bearing deposit beta through December 31, 2023 was slightly above 50% as repricing has been similar to what was experienced in prior interest rate cycles. Using the dynamic beta models, the Bancorp&#8217;s NII sensitivity modeling assumes weighted-average rising-rate interest-bearing deposit betas at the end of the ramped parallel scenarios of 78% for both a 100 bps and 200 bps increase in rates. In the event of rate cuts, this approach assumes a weighted-average falling-rate interest-bearing deposit beta at the end of the ramped parallel scenarios of 68% and 67% for a 100 bps and 200 bps decrease in rates, respectively. In falling-rate scenarios, deposit rate floors are utilized to ensure modeled deposit rates will not become negative. NII simulation modeling assumes no lag between the timing of changes in market rates and the timing of deposit repricing despite such timing lags having occurred in prior rate cycles. In addition, modeled and forecasted deposit migration from low-beta deposit products to more rate-sensitive deposit products results in an additional beta of 5%-15% in the rising-rate scenarios, and a reduction in beta of 5%-10% in the falling-rate scenarios in the Bancorp&#8217;s baseline NII sensitivity profile. Future actual performance will be dependent on market conditions, the level of competition for deposits and the magnitude of continued interest rate increases. The Bancorp provides sensitivity analysis in Tables 52 and 53 for key assumptions related to its deposit modeling, including beta and demand deposit balance performance. 

The Bancorp continually evaluates the sensitivity of its interest rate risk measures to these important deposit modeling assumptions. The Bancorp also regularly monitors the sensitivity of other important modeling assumptions, such as loan and security prepayments and early withdrawals on fixed-rate customer liabilities. 

The following table shows the Bancorp&#8217;s estimated NII sensitivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December 31: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 51: Estimated NII Sensitivity Profile and ALCO Policy Limits 2023 2022 &#160;% Change in NII (FTE) ALCO Policy Limit % Change in NII (FTE) ALCO Policy Limit Change in Interest Rates (bps) 12 Months 13-24 Months 12 Months 13-24 Months 12 Months 13-24 Months 12 Months 13-24 Months +200 Ramp over 12 months (2.55) % (4.89) (5.00) (6.00) (2.93) % (3.17) (4.00) (6.00) +100 Ramp over 12 months (1.26) (2.30) N/A N/A (1.31) (1.14) N/A N/A -100 Ramp over 12 months 0.28 0.32 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A -200 Ramp over 12 months 0.17 (0.19) (5.00) (6.00) (0.68) (4.69) (8.00) (12.00) ##TABLE_END

Table 51 presents the change in estimated net interest income for 12 month and 13-24 month horizons for alternative interest rate scenarios relative to the net interest income projection for a static rate scenario for those same time horizons. As previously mentioned, these numbers do not represent a forecast, but are instead risk measures that are monitored to evaluate the consolidated interest rate risk position of the Bancorp. At December 31, 2023, the Bancorp&#8217;s NII sensitivity in the rising-rate scenarios is negative in years one and two as interest expense is expected to increase more than interest income due to deposit repricing and balance migration estimates given the high interest rate environment. The Bancorp&#8217;s NII simulation projects an increase in NII in year one and a decrease in NII in year two under the parallel 200 bps ramp decrease in interest rates. The NII increase in year one is driven by deposits repricing faster than earning assets. However, in year two, some deposits have reached their floors but assets continue to reprice down generating less NII. The changes in the estimated NII sensitivity profile compared to December 31, 2022 were primarily attributable to higher market interest rates driving higher expected betas combined with a shift in deposit mix to higher-beta products. 

Tables 52 and 53 provide the sensitivity of the Bancorp&#8217;s estimated NII profile at December 31, 2023 to changes to certain deposit balance and deposit repricing sensitivity (beta) assumptions. 

99 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table includes the Bancorp&#8217;s estimated NII sensitivity profile with an immediate $1 billion decrease and an immediate $1 billion increase in demand deposit balances as of December 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 52: Estimated NII Sensitivity Profile at December 31, 2023 with a $1 Billion Change in Demand Deposit Assumption % Change in NII (FTE) Immediate $1 Billion Balance Decrease Immediate $1 Billion Balance Increase Change in Interest Rates (bps) 12 Months 13-24 Months 12 Months 13-24 Months +200 Ramp over 12 months (3.64) % (6.02) (1.45) (3.77) +100 Ramp over 12 months (2.26) (3.28) (0.26) (1.33) -100 Ramp over 12 months (0.53) (0.36) 1.10 0.99 -200 Ramp over 12 months (0.56) (0.71) 0.90 0.33 ##TABLE_END

The following table includes the Bancorp&#8217;s estimated NII sensitivity profile with a 10% increase and a 10% decrease to the corresponding deposit beta assumptions as of December 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 53: Estimated NII Sensitivity Profile at December 31, 2023 with Deposit Beta Assumptions Changes % Change in NII (FTE) Betas 10% Higher (a) 

Betas 10% Lower (a) 

Change in Interest Rates (bps) 12 Months 13-24 Months 12 Months 13-24 Months +200 Ramp over 12 months (4.14) % (7.77) (0.96) (2.02) +100 Ramp over 12 months (2.05) (3.73) (0.47) (0.88) -100 Ramp over 12 months 0.97 1.52 (0.40) (0.89) -200 Ramp over 12 months 1.52 2.17 (1.18) (2.55) ##TABLE_END

(a) Applies a +/- 10% multiple on assumed betas. 

Economic Value of Equity Sensitivity 

The Bancorp also uses EVE as a measurement tool to govern and manage its interest rate risk exposure. The exposure is governed by a risk framework that uses policy limits for scenarios assuming an instantaneous 200 bps increase and a 200 bps decrease in interest rates. The Bancorp routinely analyzes exposures to other interest rate scenarios and employs policy limits and/or key risk indicators to monitor and manage exposures. Whereas the NII sensitivity analysis highlights the impact on forecasted NII on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) over one- and two-year time horizons, EVE is a point-in-time analysis of the economic sensitivity of current balance sheet and off-balance sheet positions that incorporates all cash flows over their estimated remaining lives. The EVE of the balance sheet is defined as the discounted present value of all asset and net derivative cash flows less the discounted value of all liability cash flows. Due to this longer horizon, the sensitivity of EVE to changes in the level of interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate risk. EVE values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate any assumptions related to continued production or renewal activities used in the NII sensitivity analysis. As with the NII simulation model, assumptions about the timing and variability of existing balance sheet cash flows are critical in the EVE analysis. Particularly important are assumptions driving loan and security prepayments and the expected balance attrition and pricing of indeterminate-lived deposits. 

The following table shows the Bancorp&#8217;s estimated EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 54: Estimated EVE Sensitivity Profile 2023 2022 Change in Interest Rates (bps) % Change in EVE ALCO Policy Limit % Change in EVE ALCO Policy Limit +200 Shock (3.68) % (12.00) (7.53) (12.00) +100 Shock (1.49) N/A (2.72) N/A -100 Shock 0.65 &#160; N/A N/A N/A -200 Shock (1.67) (12.00) 1.24 (12.00) ##TABLE_END

The EVE sensitivity is negative in both a +200 bps rising-rate scenario and a -200 bps falling-rate scenario at December 31, 2023. The changes in the estimated EVE sensitivity profile from December 31, 2022 were primarily related to higher modeled dynamic betas in both rising and falling rate scenarios, which was largely offset by the shortening of the investment portfolio duration and increased levels of cash and other short-term investments. 

While an instantaneous shift in spot interest rates is used in this analysis to provide an estimate of exposure, the Bancorp believes that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a more modest impact. Since EVE measures the discounted present value of cash flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the change in EVE does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be impacted over a shorter 

100 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

time horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). Further, EVE does not account for factors such as future balance sheet growth, changes in product mix, changes in yield curve relationships and changing product spreads that could mitigate or exacerbate the impact of changes in interest rates. The NII simulations and EVE analyses do not necessarily include certain actions that management may undertake to manage risk in response to actual changes in interest rates. 

The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to a static balance sheet forecast, basis risks relative to the Prime Rate and various SOFR terms, yield curve twist risks and embedded options risks. In addition, the impacts on NII on an FTE basis and EVE of extreme changes in interest rates are modeled, wherein the Bancorp employs the use of yield curve shocks and environment-specific scenarios. 

Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk 

An integral component of the Bancorp&#8217;s interest rate risk management strategy is its use of derivative instruments to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in market interest rates. Examples of derivative instruments that the Bancorp may use as part of its interest rate risk management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest rate caps, forward contracts, forward starting interest rate swaps, options, swaptions and TBA securities. 

Tables 55 and 56 show all swap and floor positions that are utilized for purposes of managing the Bancorp&#8217;s exposures to the variability of interest rates. These positions are used to convert the contractual interest rate index of agreed-upon amounts of assets and liabilities (i.e., notional amounts) to another interest rate index, to hedge the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate or to hedge forecasted transactions for the variability in cash flows attributable to the contractually specified interest rate. The volume, maturity and mix of portfolio swaps change frequently as the Bancorp adjusts its broader interest rate risk management objectives and the balance sheet positions to be hedged. For further information, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following tables present additional information about the interest rate swaps and floors used in Fifth Third&#8217;s asset and liability management activities: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 55: Weighted-Average Maturity, Receive Rate and Pay Rate on Qualifying Hedging Instruments As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) Notional Amount Fair Value Remaining (years) Fixed Rate Interest rate swaps related to C&#38;I loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed $ 8,000 &#160; (9) 4.4 3.02 &#160; % SOFR Interest rate swaps related to C&#38;I loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed &#8211; forward starting (a) 

6,000 &#160; 5 &#160; 7.8 3.11 &#160; SOFR Interest rate swaps related to commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed &#8211; forward starting (a) 

4,000 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 8.1 3.50 &#160; SOFR Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt &#8211; fair value &#8211; receive-fixed 5,955 &#160; (32) 4.9 5.18 &#160; SOFR Total interest rate swaps $ 23,955 &#160; (36) Interest rate floors related to C&#38;I loans&#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed $ 3,000 &#160; 1 &#160; 1.0 2.25 &#160; SOFR ##TABLE_END

(a) Forward starting swaps will become effective on various dates between June 2024 and February 2025. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 56: Weighted-Average Maturity, Receive Rate and Pay Rate on Qualifying Hedging Instruments As of December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) Notional Amount Fair Value Remaining (years) Fixed Rate Interest rate swaps related to C&#38;I loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed $ 8,000 (76) 1.0 3.02 % 1 ML Interest rate swaps related to C&#38;I loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed &#8211; forward starting (a) 

11,000 22 8.3 3.05 1 ML Interest rate swaps related to commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed 4,000 (25) 2.1 0.99 1 ML Interest rate swaps related to commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed &#8211; forward starting (a) 

4,000 5 9.1 3.50 1 ML Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt &#8211; fair value &#8211; receive-fixed 5,955 (69) 5.9 5.18 1 ML / 3 ML / SOFR Total interest rate swaps $ 32,955 (143) Interest rate floors related to C&#38;I loans &#8211; cash flow &#8211; receive-fixed $ 3,000 4 2.0 2.25 1 ML ##TABLE_END

(a) Forward starting swaps will become effective on various dates between February 2023 and February 2025. 

Additionally, as part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its residential mortgage banking activities, the Bancorp enters into forward contracts accounted for as free-standing derivatives to economically hedge IRLCs that are also considered free-standing derivatives. The Bancorp economically hedges its exposure to residential mortgage loans held for sale through the use of forward contracts and mortgage options as well. Refer to the Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Price Risk section for the discussion of the use of derivatives to economically hedge this exposure. 

101 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The Bancorp also enters into derivative contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge market risks assumed in interest rate derivative contracts with commercial customers. Generally, these contracts have similar terms in order to protect the Bancorp from market volatility. Credit risk arises from the possible inability of the counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts, which the Bancorp minimizes through collateral arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not being taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of interest rate volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts and counterparty credit approvals performed by independent risk management. For further information, including the notional amount and fair values of these derivatives, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk 

Although the Bancorp&#8217;s portfolio loans and leases contain both fixed and floating/adjustable-rate products, the rates of interest earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of loans and leases is directly related to the length of time the rate earned is established. 

The following table summarizes the carrying value of the Bancorp&#8217;s portfolio loans and leases, excluding interest receivable, disaggregated by scheduled principal repayment, as of December 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 57: Cash Flows from Portfolio Loans and Leases 

($ in millions) Due in 1 year or less Due after 1 year through 5 years Due after 5 years through 15 years Due after 15 years Total Commercial and industrial loans $ 11,492 39,142 2,634 2 53,270 Commercial mortgage loans 3,185 6,805 1,211 75 11,276 Commercial construction loans 1,791 3,507 308 15 5,621 Commercial leases 610 1,611 279 79 2,579 Total commercial loans and leases 17,078 51,065 4,432 171 72,746 Residential mortgage loans 756 2,992 6,671 6,607 17,026 Home equity 140 786 402 2,588 3,916 Indirect secured consumer loans 3,160 8,933 2,338 534 14,965 Credit card 1,865 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; 1,865 Other consumer loans 1,504 2,784 2,106 322 6,716 Total consumer loans 7,425 15,495 11,517 10,051 44,488 Total portfolio loans and leases $ 24,503 66,560 15,949 10,222 117,234 ##TABLE_END

The following table displays a summary of cash flows, excluding interest receivable, occurring after one year for both fixed and floating/adjustable-rate loans and leases as of December 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START 

TABLE 58: Cash Flows from Portfolio Loans and Leases Occurring After One Year 

Interest Rate ($ in millions) Fixed Floating or Adjustable Commercial and industrial loans $ 5,105 36,673 Commercial mortgage loans 1,804 6,287 Commercial construction loans 148 3,682 Commercial leases 1,969 &#8212; Total commercial loans and leases 9,026 46,642 Residential mortgage loans 13,102 3,168 Home equity 242 3,534 Indirect secured consumer loans 11,795 10 Other consumer loans 4,937 275 Total consumer loans 30,076 6,987 Total portfolio loans and leases $ 39,102 53,629 ##TABLE_END

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Price Risk 

The fair value of the residential MSR portfolio was $1.7 billion at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. The value of servicing rights can fluctuate sharply depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. Generally, as interest rates decline and loans are prepaid to take advantage of refinancing, the total value of existing servicing rights declines because no further servicing fees are collected on repaid loans. For further information on the significant drivers and components of the valuation adjustments on MSRs, refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy relative to its mortgage banking activity in order to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the value of its MSR portfolio as a result of changing interest rates. The Bancorp may adjust its hedging strategy to reflect its assessment of the composition of its MSR portfolio, the cost 

102 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

of hedging and the anticipated effectiveness of the hedges given the economic environment. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on servicing rights and the instruments used to hedge price risk on MSRs. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

The Bancorp may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The derivatives are classified as free-standing instruments with the revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The balance of the Bancorp&#8217;s foreign denominated loans at both December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $1.0 billion. The Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange contracts for the benefit of commercial customers to hedge their exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Similar to the hedging of price risk from interest rate derivative contracts entered into with commercial customers, the Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge a substantial portion of the exposure from client driven foreign exchange activity. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not being taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of currency volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts, counterparty credit approvals and country limits performed by independent risk management. 

Commodity Risk 

The Bancorp also enters into commodity contracts for the benefit of commercial customers to hedge their exposure to commodity price fluctuations. Similar to the hedging of foreign exchange and price risk from interest rate derivative contracts, the Bancorp also enters into commodity contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge a substantial portion of the exposure from client driven commodity activity. The Bancorp may also offset this risk with exchange-traded commodity contracts. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of commodity volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts and counterparty credit approvals performed by independent risk management. 

103 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 

The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected levels of deposit withdrawals and other contractual obligations. Mitigating liquidity risk is accomplished by maintaining liquid assets in the form of cash and investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused borrowing capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent growth in core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts is included in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s Treasury department manages funding and liquidity based on point-in-time metrics as well as forward-looking projections, which incorporate different sources and uses of funds under base and stress scenarios. Liquidity risk is monitored and managed by the Treasury department with independent oversight provided by ERM, and a series of Policy Limits and Key Risk Indicators are established to ensure risks are managed within the Bancorp&#8217;s risk tolerance. The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that provides for liquidity stress testing, which assesses the liquidity needs under varying market conditions, time horizons, asset growth rates and other events. The contingency plan provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing capacity and available sources of contingent liquidity to prepare for unexpected liquidity needs and to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. The contingency plan also outlines the Bancorp&#8217;s response to various levels of liquidity stress and actions that should be taken during various scenarios. 

Liquidity risk is monitored and managed for both Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The Bancorp (parent company) receives substantially all of its liquidity from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily Fifth Third Bank, National Association. Subsidiary dividends are supplemented with term debt to enable the Bancorp to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet its cash obligations, including debt service and scheduled maturities, common and preferred dividends, unfunded commitments to subsidiaries and other planned capital actions in the form of share repurchases. Liquidity resources are more limited at the Bancorp, making its liquidity position more susceptible to market disruptions. Bancorp liquidity is assessed using a cash coverage horizon, ensuring the entity maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a period of sustained market disruption while meeting its anticipated obligations over an extended stressed horizon. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s ALCO, which includes senior management representatives and is accountable to the ERMC, monitors and manages liquidity and funding risk within Board-approved policy limits. In addition to the risk management activities of ALCO, the Bancorp has a liquidity risk management function as part of ERM that provides independent oversight of liquidity risk management. 

Sources of Funds 

The Bancorp&#8217;s primary sources of funds include revenue from noninterest income as well as cash flows from loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to sales and maturities, the sale or securitization of loans and leases and funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of public and private debt offerings. 

Table 57 of the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&#38;A presents information about the timing of cash flows from loan and lease repayments. Of the $50.4 billion of securities in the Bancorp&#8217;s available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio at December 31, 2023, $4.9 billion in p rincipal and interest is expected to be received in the next 12 months and an additional $7.7 billion is expected to be received in the next 13 to 24 months. For further information on the Bancorp&#8217;s securities portfolio, refer to the Investment Securities subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A. 

Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp&#8217;s ability to pledge, sell or securitize loans and leases. In order to reduce the exposure to interest rate fluctuations and to manage liquidity, the Bancorp has developed securitization and sale procedures for several types of interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-term, fixed-rate single-family residential mortgage loans underwritten according to FHLMC or FNMA guidelines are sold for cash upon origination. Additional assets such as certain other residential mortgage loans, certain commercial loans and leases, home equity loans, automobile loans and other consumer loans (including point-of-sale solar energy installation loans) are also capable of being securitized or sold. The Bancorp sold or securitized loans and leases totaling $7.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $13.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. For further information, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. The Bancorp&#8217;s average core deposits and average shareholders&#8217; equity funded 85% and 87% of its average total assets for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In addition to core deposit funding, the Bancorp also accesses a variety of other short-term and long-term funding sources, which include the use of the FHLB system. Management does not rely on any one source of liquidity and manages availability in response to changing balance sheet needs. 

In June of 2023, the Board of Directors authorized $10.0 billion of debt or other securities for issuance, of which $8.75 billion of debt or other securities were available for issuance as of December 31, 2023. The Bancorp is authorized to file any necessary registration statements with the SEC to permit ready access to the public securities markets; however, access to these markets may depend on market conditions. The Bancorp issued and sold fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes of $1.25 billion in July of 2023 as further discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

104 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

As of December 31, 2023, the Bank&#8217;s global bank note program had a borrowing capacity of $25.0 billion , of which $20.9 billion was available for issuance. Additionally, at December 31, 2023, the Bank had approximately $60.2 billion of borrowing capacity available through secured borrowing sources, including the FRB and the FHLB. 

In a securitization transaction that occurred in August of 2023, the Bancorp transferred $1.74 billion in aggregate automobile loans to a bankruptcy remote trust which subsequently issued approximately $1.58 billion of asset-backed notes, of which approximately $79 million were retained by the Bancorp, resulting in approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding notes included in long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The third-party holders of the asset-backed notes do not have recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp. Refer to Note 12 and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Current Liquidity Position 

The Bancorp maintains a strong liquidity profile driven by strong core deposit funding and over $100 billion in current available liquidity. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A for more information regarding the Bancorp&#8217;s deposit portfolio characteristics. The Bancorp is managing liquidity prudently in the current environment and maintains a liquidity profile focused on core deposit and stable long-term funding sources, while supplementing with a variety of secured and unsecured wholesale funding sources across the maturity spectrum, which allows for the effective management of concentration and rollover risk. The Bancorp&#8217;s investment portfolio remains highly concentrated in liquid and readily marketable instruments and is a significant source of secured borrowing capacity. As part of its liquidity management activities, the Bancorp maintains collateral at its secured funding providers to ensure immediate availability of funding. Additionally, the Bancorp executes periodic test trades to assess the operational processes associated with its secured funding sources. 

As of December 31, 2023, the Bancorp (parent company) has sufficient liquidity to meet contractual obligations and all preferred and common dividends without accessing the capital markets or receiving upstream dividends from the Bank subsidiary for 33 months. 

The Bancorp and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, have certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under various types of contracts. In addition to commitments to extend credit and letters of credit (which are further discussed in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), these include deposits, lease obligations, partnership investment commitments, derivative contracts, borrowings, and pension benefit payments. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&#38;A and Notes 9, 12, 14, 16, 17 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these contractual obligations. 

Credit Ratings 

The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp and Bank are impacted by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp&#8217;s or Bank&#8217;s credit ratings could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp&#8217;s or Bank&#8217;s financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in addition to disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. 

The Bancorp&#8217;s and Bank&#8217;s credit ratings are summarized in Table 59. The ratings reflect the ratings agency&#8217;s view on the Bancorp&#8217;s and Bank&#8217;s capacity to meet financial commitments.* 

*As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Additional information on the credit rating ranking within the overall classification system is located on the website of each credit rating agency. 

##TABLE_START TABLE 59: Agency Ratings 

As of February 27, 2024 

&#160; Moody&#8217;s &#160; Standard and Poor&#8217;s &#160; Fitch &#160; DBRS Morningstar Fifth Third Bancorp: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Short-term borrowings &#160; No rating &#160; A-2 &#160; F1 &#160; R-1L Senior debt &#160; Baa1 &#160; BBB+ &#160; A- &#160; A Subordinated debt &#160; Baa1 &#160; BBB &#160; BBB+ &#160; AL Fifth Third Bank, National Association: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Short-term borrowings &#160; P-2 &#160; A-2 &#160; F1 &#160; R-1M Short-term deposit &#160; P-1 &#160; No rating &#160; F1 &#160; No rating Long-term deposit &#160; A1 &#160; No rating &#160; A &#160; AH Senior debt &#160; A3 &#160; A- &#160; A- &#160; AH Subordinated debt &#160; A3 &#160; BBB+ &#160; BBB+ &#160; A Rating Agency Outlook for Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank, National Association: &#160; Negative &#160; Stable &#160; Stable Stable ##TABLE_END

105 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 

Operational risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct or adverse external events that are neither market- nor credit-related. Operational risk is inherent in the Bancorp&#8217;s activities and can manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, unintentional failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, poor design or delivery of products and services, cybersecurity or physical security incidents and privacy breaches or failure of third parties to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses, reputational damage, litigation and regulatory fines or other damage to the Bancorp. The Bancorp&#8217;s risk management goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels consistent with the Bancorp&#8217;s risk appetite, financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject. 

To control, monitor and govern operational risk, the Bancorp maintains an overall Enterprise Risk Management Framework which comprises governance oversight, risk assessment, capital measurement, monitoring and reporting as well as a formal three lines of defense approach. ERM is responsible for prescribing the framework to the lines of business and corporate functions and providing independent oversight of its implementation (second line of defense). Business Controls groups are in place in each of the lines of business to ensure consistent implementation and execution of managing day-to-day operational risk (first line of defense). 

The Bancorp&#8217;s enterprise risk management framework consists of five integrated components, including identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and independent governance reporting of risk. The corporate Operational Risk Management function within Enterprise Risk is responsible for developing and overseeing the implementation of the Bancorp&#8217;s approach to managing operational risk. This includes providing governance, awareness and training, tools, guidance and oversight to support implementation of key risk programs and systems as they relate to operational risk management. These include programs, such as risk and control self-assessments, product delivery risk assessments, scenario analysis, new product/initiative risk reviews, key risk indicators, Third-Party Risk Management, cybersecurity risk management, review of operational losses and monitoring of significant organizational or process changes. The function is also responsible for developing reports that support the proactive management of operational risk across the enterprise. The lines of business and corporate functions are responsible for managing the operational risks associated with their areas in accordance with the enterprise risk management framework. The framework is intended to enable the Bancorp to function with a sound and well-controlled operational environment. These processes support the Bancorp&#8217;s goals to minimize future operational losses and strengthen the Bancorp&#8217;s performance by maintaining sufficient capital to absorb operational losses that are incurred. 

The Bancorp also maintains a robust information security program to support the management of cybersecurity risk within the organization with a focus on prevention, detection and recovery processes. Refer to Part I, Item 1C of this report for more information, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

External threats remain elevated which may result in increased fraud and cybersecurity risks. The Bancorp&#8217;s strategic initiatives also have the potential to increase operational risk as changes to process and technology are implemented. Other factors such as increased reliance on third parties and increased use of cloud-based technologies as well as the use of emerging technologies such as generative models and artificial intelligence may introduce additional operational risk considerations. These risks continue to be carefully managed and monitored to ensure effective controls are in place, with appropriate oversight and governance by the second line of defense. 

Fifth Third also focuses on the reporting and escalation of operational control issues to senior management and the Board of Directors. The Operational Risk Committee is the key committee that oversees and supports Fifth Third in the management of operational risk across the enterprise. The Information Security Governance Committee and Model Risk Committee report to the Operational Risk Committee and are responsible for governance of information security and model risks. The Operational Risk Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the RCC of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank, National Association. 

The Bancorp is aware of and actively monitoring climate-related risks. Climate-related risks could impact the Bancorp in the form of physical risks due to acute or chronic weather-related events that could disrupt the operations of the Bancorp or could impair the ability of clients to meet financial obligations. The Bancorp also faces transition risk resulting from economic transition towards a lower-carbon future which may negatively impact some clients or present credit, strategic or reputational risks to the Bancorp. 

Climate risk is a priority for management and accordingly the Board oversees both the RCC and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The RCC is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of Fifth Third&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management Framework including climate risks. In the course of business, the Bancorp&#8217;s Environmental Risk Group works with partners to manage or mitigate environmental risks including climate-related risks. As part of its larger environmental, social and governance responsibilities the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing climate strategy and climate-related issues in the context of stakeholder concerns. 

106 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT 

Legal and regulatory compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation as a result of noncompliance with (i) applicable laws, regulations, rules and other regulatory requirements (including but not limited to the risk of consumers experiencing economic loss or other legal harm as a result of noncompliance with consumer protection laws, regulations and requirements); (ii) internal policies and procedures, standards of best practice or codes of conduct; and (iii) principles of integrity and fair dealing applicable to Fifth Third&#8217;s activities and functions. Legal risks include the risk of actions against the institution that result in unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, legal sanctions, or adverse judgments, which disrupt or otherwise negatively affect the operations or condition of the institution. Failure to effectively manage such risks can elevate the risk level or manifest itself as other types of key risks, including reputational or operational risk. Fifth Third focuses on managing legal and regulatory compliance risk in accordance with the Bancorp&#8217;s integrated enterprise risk management framework, which ensures consistent processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting risks. The Bancorp&#8217;s risk management goal is to keep compliance risk at appropriate levels, consistent with the Bancorp&#8217;s risk appetite. 

To mitigate such risks, Compliance Risk Management provides independent oversight to foster consistency and sufficiency in the execution of the program, and ensures that lines of business and support functions are adequately identifying, assessing and monitoring legal and regulatory compliance risks and adopting proper mitigation strategies. Moreover, such strategies are modified from time to time to respond to new or emerging risks in the environment. Compliance Risk Management and the Legal Division provide guidance to the lines of business and enterprise functions, which are ultimately responsible for managing such risks associated with their areas. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for formulating and directing the strategy, development, implementation, communication and maintenance of the Compliance Risk Management program, which implements key compliance processes, including but not limited to, executive- and board-level governance and reporting routines, compliance-related policies, risk assessments, key risk indicators, issues tracking, regulatory change management and regulatory compliance testing and monitoring. In partnership with Compliance Risk Management, the Financial Crimes Division conducts and oversees anti-money laundering and economic sanctions processes. Compliance Risk Management also partners with the Community and Economic Development team to oversee the Bancorp&#8217;s compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. 

Fifth Third also reports and escalates legal and regulatory compliance risks to senior management and the Board of Directors. The Management Compliance Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Compliance Officer, is the key committee that oversees and supports Fifth Third in the management of compliance risk across the enterprise. The Management Compliance Committee oversees Bancorp-wide compliance issues, industry best practices, legislative developments, regulatory concerns and other leading indicators of legal and regulatory compliance risk. The Management Compliance Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the RCC of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank, National Association. 

107 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

Management regularly reviews the Bancorp&#8217;s capital levels to help ensure it is appropriately positioned under various operating environments. The Bancorp has established a Capital Committee which is responsible for making capital plan recommendations to management. These recommendations are reviewed by the ERMC and the annual capital plan is approved by the Board of Directors. The Capital Committee is responsible for execution and oversight of the capital actions of the capital plan. 

Regulatory Capital Ratios 

The Basel III Final Rule sets minimum regulatory capital ratios as well as defines the measure of &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; for insured depository institutions. For additional information regarding the prescribed capital ratios, refer to Note 29 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Bancorp is subject to the stress capital buffer requirement and must maintain capital ratios above its buffered minimum (regulatory minimum plus stress capital buffer) in order to avoid certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The FRB uses the supervisory stress test to determine the Bancorp&#8217;s stress capital buffer, subject to a floor of 2.5%. The Bancorp&#8217;s stress capital buffer requirement has been 2.5% since the introduction of this framework and was most recently affirmed as part of Fifth Third&#8217;s 2023 Capital Plan submission with an effective date of October 1, 2023. The Bancorp&#8217;s capital ratios have exceeded the stress capital buffer requirement for all periods presented. 

The Bancorp adopted ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020 and elected the five-year transition phase-in option for the impact of CECL on regulatory capital with its regulatory filings as of March 31, 2020. The Bancorp&#8217;s modified CECL transition amount began phasing out on January 1, 2022, and will be fully phased out by January 1, 2025. The impact of the modified CECL transition amount on the Bancorp&#8217;s regulatory capital at December 31, 2023 was an increase in capital of approximately $249 million. On a fully phased-in basis, the Bancorp&#8217;s CET1 capital ratio would be reduced by 13 bps as of December 31, 2023. 

On July 27, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies released a notice of proposed rulemaking to revise the Basel III Capital Rules, which would modify its existing risk-based capital framework for large banks and introduce a new framework that implements international capital standards. The proposed rulemaking would increase capital requirements applicable to banking organizations with total assets of $100 billion or more, including Fifth Third, and would align the calculation of regulatory capital and the calculation of risk-weighted assets across large banking organizations. As proposed, the rules would be effective for the Bancorp on July 1, 2025 and phased in over a three-year transition period. The Bancorp is in the process of evaluating this proposed rulemaking and assessing its potential impact. 

On August 29, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to require that certain banking organizations with $100 billion or more in consolidated assets, including Fifth Third, comply with certain long-term debt requirements at the holding company and insured depository institution levels. These proposed requirements are intended to absorb losses and recapitalize the insured depository institution in the event of the failure of a banking organization. As proposed, the rules would be phased in over a three-year period after their effective date. The Bancorp is in the process of evaluating this proposed rulemaking and assessing its potential impact, which is dependent on the finalization of the aforementioned proposed capital rule. 

The following table summarizes the Bancorp&#8217;s capital ratios as of December 31: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 60: Capital Ratios ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Average total Bancorp shareholders&#8217; equity as a percent of average assets 8.49 &#160; % 9.22 11.06 

Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets (a)(b) 

8.65 &#160; 8.31 7.97 

Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets (a)(b) 

7.67 &#160; 7.30 6.94 

Regulatory capital: (c) 

CET1 capital $ 16,800 &#160; 15,670 14,781 Tier 1 capital 18,916 &#160; 17,786 16,897 Total regulatory capital 22,400 &#160; 21,606 20,789 Risk-weighted assets 163,223 &#160; 168,909 154,860 

Regulatory capital ratios: (c) 

CET1 capital 10.29 &#160; % 9.28 9.54 Tier 1 risk-based capital 11.59 &#160; 10.53 10.91 Total risk-based capital 13.72 &#160; 12.79 13.42 Leverage 8.73 &#160; 8.56 8.27 ##TABLE_END

(a) These are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A. 

(b) Excludes AOCI. 

(c) Regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 are calculated pursuant to the five-year transition provision option to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital. 

108 Fifth Third Bancorp 

MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Capital Planning 

In 2011, the FRB adopted the capital plan rule, which requires BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual capital plans to the FRB for review. Under the rule, these capital plans must include detailed descriptions of the following: the BHC&#8217;s internal processes for assessing capital adequacy; the policies governing capital actions such as common stock issuances, dividends and share repurchases; and all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon. Furthermore, each BHC must report to the FRB the results of stress tests conducted by the BHC under a number of scenarios that assess the sources and uses of capital under baseline and stressed economic conditions. 

Under the Enhanced Prudential Standards tailoring rules, the Bancorp is subject to Category IV standards, under which the Bancorp is no longer required to file semi-annual, company-run stress tests with the FRB and publicly disclose the results. However, the Bancorp is required to develop and maintain a capital plan approved by the Board of Directors on an annual basis. As an institution subject to Category IV standards, the Bancorp is subject to the FRB&#8217;s supervisory stress tests every two years, the Board capital plan rule and certain FR Y-14 reporting requirements. The supervisory stress tests are forward-looking quantitative evaluations of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on the Bancorp&#8217;s capital. The Bancorp became subject to Category IV standards on December 31, 2019, and the requirements outlined above apply to the stress test cycle that started on January 1, 2020. The Bancorp was not subject to the 2023 supervisory stress test conducted by the FRB, but submitted the Board-approved capital plan and information contained in Schedule C - Regulatory Capital Instruments as required by the April 5, 2023 deadline. 

The Bancorp maintains a comprehensive process for managing capital that considers the current and forward-looking macroeconomic and regulatory environments and makes capital distributions that are consistent with the requirements in the FRB&#8217;s capital plan rule, inclusive of the Bancorp&#8217;s stress capital buffer requirement. 

Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program 

The Bancorp&#8217;s common stock dividend policy and stock repurchase program reflect its earnings outlook, desired payout ratios, the need to maintain adequate capital levels, the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends and the need to comply with safe and sound banking practices as well as meet regulatory requirements and expectations. The Bancorp declared dividends per common share of $1.36 and $1.26 during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

In June of 2019, the Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to repurchase up to 100 million common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to effect share repurchase transactions. Under this authorization, t he Bancorp entered into and settled accelerated share repurchase transactions during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Refer to Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the accelerated share repurchase activity. 

The following table summarizes shares authorized for repurchase as part of publicly announced plans or programs: 

##TABLE_START TABLE 61: Share Repurchases For the years ended December 31 2023 2022 Shares authorized for repurchase at January 1 37,705,807 &#160; 40,785,269 Additional authorizations &#8212; &#160; &#8212; 

Share repurchases (a) 

(5,589,996) (3,079,462) Shares authorized for repurchase at December 31 32,115,811 &#160; 37,705,807 

Average price paid per share (a) 

$ 35.78 &#160; 32.47 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes 1,649,542 and 1,891,160 shares repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, in connection with various employee compensation plans. These purchases are not included in the calculation for average price paid per share and do not count against the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurchased under the Board of Directors&#8217; authorization. 

