 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

General 

Synovus Financial Corp. is a financial services company and a registered bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Georgia. We provide commercial and retail banking in addition to a full suite of specialized products and services including private banking, treasury management, wealth management, mortgage services, premium finance and international banking to our customers through our wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Synovus Bank, and other offices in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee. 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia in 1972. Our principal executive offices are located at 1111 Bay Avenue, Suite 500, Columbus, Georgia 31901 and our telephone number at that address is (706) 649-2311. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;SNV.&#8221; At December 31, 2019 , we had total consolidated assets of $48.20 billion and total consolidated deposits of $38.41 billion . 

Additional information relating to our business and our subsidiaries, including a detailed description of our operating results and financial condition for 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , is contained in "Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Report. 

Banking Operations 

Synovus conducts its banking operations through Synovus Bank. Synovus Bank is a Georgia state-chartered bank and operates throughout Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee. Synovus Bank offers commercial banking services and retail banking services. Our commercial banking services include treasury management, asset management, capital markets services, institutional trust services and commercial, financial and real estate loans. Our retail banking services include accepting customary types of demand and savings deposits accounts; mortgage, installment and other consumer loans; investment and brokerage services; safe deposit services; automated banking services; automated fund transfers; Internet-based banking services; and bank credit and debit card services, including Visa and MasterCard services. At December 31, 2019 , Synovus Bank operated 298 branches and 389 ATMs across our footprint. 

Non-bank Subsidiaries 

In addition to our banking operations, we also provide various other financial services to our customers through the following direct and indirect wholly-owned non-bank subsidiaries: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Synovus Securities, headquartered in Columbus, Georgia, which specializes in professional portfolio management for fixed-income securities, investment banking, the execution of securities transactions as a broker/dealer, asset management and financial planning services, and the provision of individual investment advice on equity and other securities; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Synovus Trust, headquartered in Columbus, Georgia, which provides trust services. 

##TABLE_END Business Developments 

Synovus' strategic focus includes expanding and diversifying our franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size while maintaining a community banking, relationship-based approach to banking. This strategy has encompassed both organic growth as well as acquisitions of complementary banks and financial services businesses. In the first quarter of 2019, we acquired FCB, the parent company of Florida Community Bank, and integrated it into our business. In 2019, we also reorganized our operating model by more closely aligning our lines of business and key support teams to better serve our customers and to expand and diversify our sources of growth, including growth in our treasury and payments solutions business and in our new wholesale banking group which includes corporate, asset-based and structured lending capabilities. With this change in organizational structure, we segmented our business into three major reportable business segments: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, and Financial Management Services, with functional activities such as treasury, technology, operations, marketing, finance, enterprise risk, legal, human resources, corporate communications, executive management, among others, included in Treasury and Corporate Other. Monitoring and assessment of segment performance became effective in the fourth quarter of 2019. For more information on segment reporting, see "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 19 - Segment Reporting" of this Report. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive and could become more competitive as a result of recent and ongoing legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation within the financial services industry. Synovus Bank and our wholly-owned non-bank subsidiaries compete actively with national and state banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions and other nonbank financial intermediaries, including securities brokers and dealers, investment advisory firms, 

mortgage companies, insurance companies, trust companies, finance companies, leasing companies and certain governmental agencies, all of which actively engage in marketing various types of loans, deposit accounts and other financial services. In addition, competition from nontraditional banking institutions, often known as FinTech, continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of such non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. These competitors have been successful in developing products that are in direct competition with or are alternatives to the banking services offered by traditional banking institutions. Our ability to deliver strong financial performance will depend in part on our ability to expand the scope of, and effectively deliver, products and services, which will allow us to meet the changing needs of our customers. However, we often compete with much larger national and regional banks that have more resources than we do to deliver new products and services and introduce new technology to enhance the customer experience. See "Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors - Competition in the financial services industry may adversely affect our future earnings and growth ." 

As of December 31, 2019 , we were the largest bank holding company headquartered in Georgia based on assets. Financial services customers are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. We continue to gain traction in most of our key markets, as well as overall markets, as shown in the most recent market share deposit data for FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2019. Additionally, over the last year, we have continued to rationalize our branch network and focused on improving the mix of our deposits, while maintaining and growing market share throughout our footprint. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2019 , Synovus had 5,389 employees compared to 4,651 employees at December 31, 2018 . 

Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors 

We are extensively regulated under federal and state law. The following is a brief summary that does not purport to be a complete description of all regulations that affect us or all aspects of those regulations. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions described below and is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the statutes or regulations applicable to the Company&#8217;s and Synovus Bank&#8217;s business. In addition, proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised at both the state and federal levels. The likelihood and timing of any changes in these laws and regulations, and the impact such changes may have on us and Synovus Bank, are difficult to predict. In addition, bank regulatory agencies may issue enforcement actions, policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to us or to Synovus Bank. Changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulatory guidance, or their interpretation by regulatory agencies or courts may have a material adverse effect on our and Synovus Bank&#8217;s business, operations, and earnings. 

Synovus Bank, Synovus Trust, and in some cases, we and our nonbank affiliates, must undergo regular on-site examinations by the appropriate regulatory agency, which will examine for adherence to a range of legal and regulatory compliance responsibilities. A bank regulator conducting an examination has complete access to the books and records of the examined institution. The results of the examination are confidential. Supervision and regulation of banks, their holding companies and affiliates is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and customers, the DIF of the FDIC, and the U.S. banking and financial system rather than holders of our capital stock. 

Regulation of the Company 

We are registered as a bank holding company with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act and have elected to be treated as a financial holding company. As such, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve and are subject to its regulatory reporting requirements. Federal law subjects bank holding companies, such as the Company, to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. In addition, the GA DBF regulates bank holding companies that own Georgia-chartered banks, such as us, under the bank holding company laws of the State of Georgia. Various federal and state bodies regulate and supervise our non-bank subsidiaries including our brokerage, investment advisory, insurance agency and processing operations. These include, but are not limited to, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, federal and state banking regulators and various state regulators of insurance and brokerage activities. 

Violations of laws and regulations, or other unsafe and unsound practices, may result in regulatory agencies imposing fines or penalties, cease and desist orders, or taking other enforcement actions. Under certain circumstances, these agencies may enforce these remedies directly against officers, directors, employees and other parties participating in the affairs of a bank or bank holding company. Like all bank holding companies, we are regulated extensively under federal and state law. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, state banking regulators, the Federal 

Reserve Board, and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if they determine that we have insufficient capital or other resources, or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, our bank regulators can require us or our subsidiaries to enter into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. 

If we become subject to and are unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory actions or directives, supervisory agreements, or orders, then we could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including consent orders, prompt corrective action restrictions and/or other regulatory actions, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock and preferred stock. See &#8220;Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors - We may become subject to supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock and preferred stock &#8221; of this Report. 

Activity Limitations 

As a financial holding company, we are permitted to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank holding company that has not elected to be a financial holding company. Bank holding companies are generally restricted to engaging in the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and certain other activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. Financial holding companies may also engage in activities that are considered to be financial in nature, as well as those incidental or, if determined by the Federal Reserve, complementary to financial activities. We and Synovus Bank must each remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed&#8221; and Synovus Bank must receive a CRA rating of at least &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; at its most recent examination in order for us to maintain our status as a financial holding company. If Synovus Bank ceases to be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well managed&#8221; under applicable regulatory standards, or if Synovus Bank receives a rating of less than satisfactory under the CRA, the Federal Reserve Board may, among other things, place limitations on our ability to conduct these broader financial activities or, if the deficiencies persist, require us to divest the banking subsidiary or the businesses engaged in activities permissible only for financial holding companies. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve has the power to order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any nonbanking activity or terminate its ownership or control of any nonbank subsidiary, when it has reasonable cause to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company. As further described below, each of the Company and Synovus Bank is well-capitalized under applicable regulatory standards as of December 31, 2019 , and Synovus Bank has an overall rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent CRA evaluation. 

Source of Strength Obligations 

A financial holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank. The term &#8220;source of financial strength&#8221; means the ability of a company, such as us, that directly or indirectly owns or controls an insured depository institution, such as Synovus Bank, to provide financial assistance to such insured depository institution in the event of financial distress. The appropriate federal banking agency for the depository institution (in the case of Synovus Bank, this agency is the Federal Reserve) may require reports from us to assess our ability to serve as a source of strength and to enforce compliance with the source of strength requirements by requiring us to provide financial assistance to Synovus Bank in the event of financial distress. If we were to enter bankruptcy or become subject to the orderly liquidation process established by the Dodd-Frank Act, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of Synovus Bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee or the FDIC, as appropriate, and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, the FDIC provides that any insured depository institution generally will be liable for any loss incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or any assistance provided by the FDIC to, a commonly controlled insured depository institution. Synovus Bank is an FDIC-insured depository institution and thus subject to these requirements. 

Acquisitions 

The BHC Act permits acquisitions of banks by bank holding companies, such that we and any other bank holding company, whether located in Georgia or elsewhere, may acquire a bank located in any other state, subject to certain deposit-percentage, age of bank charter requirements, and other restrictions. The BHC Act requires that a bank holding company obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any 

additional bank or bank holding company, (ii) taking any action that causes an additional bank or bank holding company to become a subsidiary of the bank holding company, or (iii) merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company. The Federal Reserve may not approve any such transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider: (1) the financial and managerial resources of the companies involved, including pro forma capital ratios; (2) the risk to the stability of the United States banking or financial system; (3) the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including performance under the CRA; and (4) the effectiveness of the companies in combatting money laundering. 

Change in Control 

Federal law restricts the amount of voting stock of a bank holding company or a bank that a person may acquire without the prior approval of banking regulators. Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act and the regulations thereunder, a person or group must give advance notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of any bank holding company, such as the Company, or before acquiring control of any state member bank, such as Synovus Bank. Upon receipt of such notice, the Federal Reserve may approve or disapprove the acquisition. The Change in Bank Control Act creates a rebuttable presumption of control if a member or group acquires a certain percentage or more of a bank holding company&#8217;s or bank&#8217;s voting stock. As a result, a person or entity generally must provide prior notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring the power to vote 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. The overall effect of such laws is to make it more difficult to acquire a bank holding company and a bank by tender offer or similar means than it might be to acquire control of another type of corporation. Consequently, shareholders of the Company may be less likely to benefit from the rapid increases in stock prices that may result from tender offers or similar efforts to acquire control of other companies. Investors should be aware of these requirements when acquiring shares of our stock. 

Governance and Financial Reporting Obligations 

We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and the NYSE. In particular, we are required to include management and independent registered public accounting firm reports on internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have evaluated our controls, including compliance with the SEC rules on internal controls, and have and expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the values of our securities. The assessments of our financial reporting controls as of December 31, 2019 are included in this report under &#8220;Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.&#8221; 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, the Federal Reserve and other regulators jointly issued final rules implementing requirements of a new Section 13 to the BHC Act, commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; The Volcker Rule generally prohibits us and our subsidiaries from (i) engaging in proprietary trading for our own account, and (ii) acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in or sponsoring a &#8220;covered fund,&#8221; all subject to certain exceptions. The Volcker Rule also specifies certain limited activities in which we and our subsidiaries may continue to engage, and required us to implement a compliance program. The regulators provided for a Volcker Rule conformance date of July 21, 2015. The Federal Reserve extended the conformance deadline twice (first to July 21, 2016, and again to July 21, 2017) for certain legacy &#8220;covered funds&#8221; activities and investments in place before December 31, 2013. Further, the Federal Reserve Board permits limited exemptions, upon application, for divestiture of certain &#8220;illiquid&#8221; covered funds, for an additional period of up to 5 years beyond that date. In the first quarter of 2017, we obtained a five-year extension from the Federal Reserve to the divestiture requirement of certain funds held by us and covered by this rule. On October 8, 2019, the federal banking agencies finalized changes to the Volcker Rule intended to simplify compliance with the Rule&#8217;s &#8220;proprietary trading&#8221; restrictions. 

Corporate Governance 

The Dodd-Frank Act addresses many investor protections, corporate governance, and executive compensation matters that will affect most U.S. publicly traded companies. The Dodd-Frank Act (1) grants shareholders of U.S. publicly traded companies an advisory vote on executive compensation; (2) enhances independence requirements for Compensation Committee members; and (3) requires companies listed on national securities exchanges to adopt incentive-based compensation claw-back policies for executive officers. 

Incentive Compensation 

The Dodd-Frank Act required the banking agencies and the SEC to establish joint rules or guidelines for financial institutions with more than $1 billion in assets, such as us and Synovus Bank, which prohibit incentive compensation arrangements that the agencies determine to encourage inappropriate risks by the institution. The banking agencies issued proposed rules in 2011 and previously issued guidance on sound incentive compensation policies. In 2016, the banking agencies also proposed rules that would, depending upon the assets of the institution, directly regulate incentive compensation arrangements and would require enhanced oversight and recordkeeping. As of December 31, 2019, these rules have not been implemented by the banking agencies. We and Synovus Bank have undertaken efforts to ensure that our incentive compensation plans do not encourage inappropriate risks, consistent with three key principles-that incentive compensation arrangements should appropriately balance risk and financial rewards, be compatible with effective controls and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate governance. 

Shareholder Say-On-Pay Votes 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires public companies to take shareholders&#8217; votes on proposals addressing compensation (known as say-on-pay), the frequency of a say-on-pay vote, and the golden parachutes available to executives in connection with change-in-control transactions. Public companies must give shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation at least every three years and the opportunity to vote on frequency at least every six years, indicating whether the say-on-pay vote should be held annually, biennially, or triennially. The last frequency on say-on-pay vote occurred at our 2014 annual shareholders meeting. The say-on-pay, the say-on-parachute and the say-on-frequency votes are explicitly nonbinding and cannot override a decision of our Board of Directors. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

We and our subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the SEC, the FINRA, the PCAOB, the NYSE and various state securities and insurance regulators. We and our subsidiaries have from time to time received requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning our business practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Capital Requirements 

We and Synovus Bank are required under federal law to maintain certain minimum capital levels based on ratios of capital to total assets and capital to risk-weighted assets. The required capital ratios are minimums, and the Federal Reserve may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Risks such as concentration of credit risks and the risk arising from non-traditional activities, as well as the institution&#8217;s exposure to a decline in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates, and an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, are important factors that are to be taken into account by the federal banking agencies in assessing an institution&#8217;s overall capital adequacy. The following is a brief description of the relevant provisions of these capital rules and their potential impact on our capital levels. 

We and Synovus Bank are subject to the following risk-based capital ratios: a CET1 risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, which includes CET1 and additional Tier 1 capital, and a total capital ratio, which includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. CET1 is primarily comprised of the sum of common stock instruments and related surplus net of treasury stock and retained earnings less certain adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets subject to temporary timing differences. Additional Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments disqualified from Tier 1 capital, including qualifying subordinated debt and a limited amount of loan loss reserves up to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets, subject to certain eligibility criteria. The capital rules also define the risk-weights assigned to assets and off-balance sheet items to determine the risk-weighted asset components of the risk-based capital rules, including, for example, certain &#8220;high volatility&#8221; commercial real estate, past due assets, structured securities and equity holdings. 

The leverage capital ratio, which serves as a minimum capital standard, is the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain required deduction items. The required minimum leverage ratio for all banks and bank holding companies is 4%. 

In addition, effective January 1, 2019, the capital rules required a capital conservation buffer of CET1 of 2.5% above each of the minimum capital ratio requirements (CET1, Tier 1, and total risk-based capital), which is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. These buffer requirements must be met for a bank or bank holding company to be able to pay dividends, engage in share buybacks or make discretionary bonus payments to executive management without restriction. 

Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our operations or financial condition. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on the Company&#8217;s or Synovus Bank&#8217;s ability to pay 

dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications or other restrictions on its growth. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;), among other things, requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regarding depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five regulatory capital tiers: &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;, &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221;, &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221;, &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221;, and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;. A depository institution&#8217;s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. The FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive restraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve System. In addition, undercapitalized depository institutions may not accept brokered deposits absent a waiver from the FDIC, are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit capital restoration plans for regulatory approval. A depository institution's holding company must guarantee any required capital restoration plan, up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository institution's assets at the time it becomes undercapitalized or the amount of the capital deficiency when the institution fails to comply with the plan. Federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized. All of the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted regulations establishing relevant capital measures and relevant capital levels for federally insured depository institutions. 

To be well-capitalized, Synovus Bank must maintain at least the following capital ratios: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

6.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

8.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

10.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

5.0% leverage ratio. 

##TABLE_END The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for bank holding companies to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the current capital rules applicable to banks. For purposes of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation Y, including determining whether a bank holding company meets the requirements to be a financial holding company, bank holding companies, such as the Company, must maintain a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater and a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater to be well-capitalized. If the Federal Reserve were to apply the same or a very similar well-capitalized standard to bank holding companies as that applicable to Synovus Bank, the Company&#8217;s capital ratios as of December 31, 2019 would exceed such revised well-capitalized standard. Also, the Federal Reserve may require bank holding companies, including the Company, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a bank holding company&#8217;s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. 

In 2019, the Company&#8217;s and Synovus Bank&#8217;s regulatory capital ratios were above the applicable well-capitalized standards and met the then-applicable capital conservation buffer. Based on current estimates, we believe that the Company and Synovus Bank will continue to exceed all applicable well-capitalized regulatory capital requirements and the capital conservation buffer in 2020. As of December 31, 2019 , the consolidated capital ratios of Synovus and Synovus Bank were as follows: 

##TABLE_START Table 1 &#8211; Capital Ratios as of December 31, 2019 

(dollars in thousands) 

&#160; 

Synovus 

&#160; 

Synovus Bank 

CET1 ratio 

&#160; 

8.95 

% 

&#160; 

11.10 

% 

Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 

&#160; 

10.23 

&#160; 

11.10 

Total risk-based capital ratio 

&#160; 

12.25 

&#160; 

11.78 

Leverage ratio 

&#160; 

9.16 

&#160; 

9.94 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

##TABLE_END

See "Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources" and "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 - Regulatory Capital" of this Report for further information. 

In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act was enacted, which provided banking organizations having less than $50 billion in consolidated assets, such as us and Synovus Bank, with relief from the annual company-run stress testing previously required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 

On December 21, 2018, federal banking agencies issued a joint final rule to revise their regulatory capital rules to (i) address the upcoming implementation of the CECL accounting standard under GAAP; (ii) provide an optional three-year phase-in period for the day-one adverse regulatory capital effects that banking organizations are expected to experience upon adopting CECL; and 

(iii) require the use of CECL in stress tests beginning with the 2020 capital planning and stress testing cycle for certain banking organizations. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which introduced CECL as the methodology to replace the current &#8220;incurred loss&#8221; methodology for financial assets measured at amortized cost, and changed the approaches for recognizing and recording credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities and purchased credit impaired financial assets. Under the incurred loss methodology, credit losses are recognized only when the losses are probable or have been incurred; under CECL, companies are required to recognize the full amount of expected credit losses for the lifetime of the financial assets, based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This change will result in earlier recognition of credit losses that the Company deems expected but not yet probable. For SEC reporting companies with December 31 fiscal-year ends, such as the Company, CECL became effective beginning with the first quarter of 2020. 

Payment of Dividends 

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from Synovus Bank and our other subsidiaries. Our primary source of cash, other than securities offerings, is dividends from Synovus Bank. Under the laws of the State of Georgia, we, as a business corporation, may declare and pay dividends in cash or property unless the payment or declaration would be contrary to restrictions contained in our Articles of Incorporation, or unless, after payment of the dividend, we would not be able to pay our debts when they become due in the usual course of our business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities. In addition, we are also subject to federal regulatory capital requirements that effectively limit the amount of cash dividends that we may pay. 

The primary sources of funds for our payment of dividends to our shareholders are cash on hand and dividends from Synovus Bank and our non-bank subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Synovus Bank may pay. Synovus Bank is a Georgia bank. Under the regulations of the GA DBF, a Georgia bank must have approval of the GA DBF to pay cash dividends if, at the time of such payment: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets is less than 6%; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

the aggregate amount of dividends to be declared or anticipated to be declared during the current calendar year exceeds 50% of its net after-tax profits before dividends for the previous calendar year; or 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

its total classified assets in its most recent regulatory examination exceeded 80% of its Tier 1 capital plus its allowance for loan and lease losses. 

##TABLE_END The Georgia Financial Institutions Code also contains restrictions on the ability of a Georgia bank to pay dividends other than from retained earnings without the approval of the GA DBF. As a result of the foregoing restrictions, Synovus Bank may be required to seek approval from the GA DBF to pay dividends. 

In addition, we and Synovus Bank are subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal bank regulatory authority may prohibit the payment of dividends where it has determined that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice. The Federal Reserve has indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsound and unsafe banking practice. The Federal Reserve has indicated that depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Under a Federal Reserve policy adopted in 2009, the board of directors of a bank holding company must consider different factors to ensure that its dividend level is prudent relative to maintaining a strong financial position, and is not based on overly optimistic earnings scenarios, such as potential events that could affect its ability to pay, while still maintaining a strong financial position. As a general matter, the Federal Reserve has indicated that the board of directors of a bank holding company should consult with the Federal Reserve and eliminate, defer or significantly reduce the bank holding company&#8217;s dividends if: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

its net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

its prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with its capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

it will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. 

##TABLE_END Regulation of the Bank 

Synovus Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, and is subject to its regulatory reporting requirements, as well as supervision and regulation by the GA DBF. As a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, Synovus Bank is required to hold stock in its district Federal Reserve Bank in an amount equal to 6% of its capital stock and surplus (half paid to acquire stock with the remainder held as a cash reserve). Member banks do not have any control over the Federal Reserve System as a result of owning the stock and the stock cannot be sold or traded. The annual dividend rate for member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Synovus Bank, is based on a floating dividend rate tied to10-year U.S. Treasuries with the maximum dividend rate capped at 6%. 

The deposits of Synovus Bank are insured by the FDIC up to applicable limits, and, accordingly, Synovus Bank is also subject to certain FDIC regulations and the FDIC has backup examination authority and some enforcement powers over Synovus Bank. Synovus Trust, a subsidiary of Synovus Bank that provides trust services, is organized as a national trust bank and thus is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 

In addition, as discussed in more detail below, Synovus Bank and any other of our subsidiaries that offer consumer financial products and services are subject to regulation and supervision by the CFPB. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB, and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce certain federal consumer financial protection law. 

Broadly, regulations applicable to Synovus Bank include limitations on loans to a single borrower and to its directors, officers and employees; restrictions on the opening and closing of branch offices; the maintenance of required capital ratios; the granting of credit under equal and fair conditions; the disclosure of the costs and terms of such credit; requirements to maintain reserves against deposits and loans; limitations on the types of investment that may be made by Synovus Bank; and requirements governing risk management practices. Synovus Bank is permitted under federal law to branch on a de novo basis across state lines where the laws of that state would permit a bank chartered by that state to open a de novo branch. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Synovus Bank is subject to restrictions on extensions of credit and certain other transactions between Synovus Bank and the Company or any nonbank affiliate. Generally, these covered transactions with either the Company or any affiliate are limited to 10% of Synovus Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, and all such transactions between Synovus Bank and the Company and all of its nonbank affiliates combined are limited to 20% of Synovus Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus. Loans and other extensions of credit from Synovus Bank to the Company or any affiliate generally are required to be secured by eligible collateral in specified amounts. In addition, any transaction between Synovus Bank and the Company or any affiliate are required to be on an arm&#8217;s length basis. Federal banking laws also place similar restrictions on certain extensions of credit by insured banks, such as Synovus Bank, to their directors, executive officers and principal shareholders. 

Reserves 

Federal Reserve rules require depository institutions, such as Synovus Bank, to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts, primarily NOW and regular checking accounts. For 2019 , the first $16.3 million of covered balances were exempt from these reserve requirements, aggregate balances between $16.3 million and $124.2 million were subject to a 3% reserve requirement, and aggregate balances above $124.2 million were subject to a reserve requirement of $3,237,000 plus 10% of the amount over $124.2 million. These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments and Depositor Preference 

Synovus Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC&#8217;s DIF up to the limits under applicable law, which currently are set at $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category. Synovus Bank is subject to FDIC assessments for its deposit insurance. The FDIC calculates quarterly deposit insurance assessments based on an institution&#8217;s average total consolidated assets less its average tangible equity, and applies one of four risk categories determined by reference to its capital levels, supervisory ratings, and certain other factors. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. In addition, in 2019 Synovus Bank was subject to quarterly assessments by the FDIC to pay interest on Financing Corporation bonds, ending in the first quarter 2019. For 2019, Synovus Bank's FDIC insurance expense totaled $22.3 million including its Financing Corporation assessment. 

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank&#8217;s federal regulatory agency. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution, including those of the parent bank holding company. See &#8220;Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Deposits&#8221; of this Report for further information. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe, by regulation or guideline, operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions relating to: (1) internal controls; (2) information systems and audit systems; (3) loan documentation; (4) credit underwriting; (5) interest rate risk exposure; and (6) asset quality. The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations and Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness to implement these required standards. These guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards used to identify and address 

problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. Under the regulations, if a regulator determines that a bank fails to meet any standards prescribed by the guidelines, the regulator may require the bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance, consistent with deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

Under the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism ("USA PATRIOT") Act of 2001, financial institutions are subject to prohibitions against specified financial transactions and account relationships as well as enhanced due diligence and "know your customer" standards in their dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. The USA PATRIOT Act, and its implementing regulations adopted by the FinCEN, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, requires financial institutions to establish anti-money laundering programs with minimum standards that include: 

&#8226; the development of internal policies, procedures, and controls; 

&#8226; the designation of a compliance officer; 

&#8226; an ongoing employee training program; and 

&#8226; an independent audit function to test the programs. 

In addition, FinCEN issued rules that became effective on May 11, 2018, that require, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions, covered financial institutions to identify and verify the identity of beneficial owners of legal entity customers. 

Banking regulators will consider compliance with the Act&#8217;s money laundering provisions in acting upon acquisition and merger proposals. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and have been active in imposing cease and desist and other regulatory orders and money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. Sanctions for violations of the Act can be imposed in an amount equal to twice the sum involved in the violating transaction, up to $1 million. 

Economic Sanctions 

The OFAC is responsible for helping to ensure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and acts of Congress. OFAC publishes, and routinely updates, lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, including the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List. If we find a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, we must undertake certain specified activities, which could include blocking or freezing the account or transaction requested, and we must notify the appropriate authorities. 

Concentrations in Lending 

During 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies released guidance on &#8220;Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending&#8221; (the &#8220;Guidance&#8221;) and advised financial institutions of the risks posed by CRE lending concentrations. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when CRE loan concentrations exceed either: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank&#8217;s total risk-based capital; or 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank&#8217;s total risk-based capital. 

##TABLE_END The Guidance also applies when a bank has a sharp increase in CRE loans or has significant concentrations of CRE secured by a particular property type. We have always had exposures to loans secured by CRE due to the nature of our markets and the loan needs of both retail and commercial customers. We believe our long-term experience in CRE lending, underwriting policies, internal controls, and other policies currently in place, as well as our loan and credit monitoring and administration procedures, are generally appropriate to managing our concentrations as required under the Guidance. 

Debit Interchange Fees 

Interchange fees, or "swipe" fees, are fees that merchants pay to credit card companies and card-issuing banks such as Synovus Bank for processing electronic payment transactions on their behalf. The maximum permissible interchange fee that a non-exempt issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, subject to an upward adjustment of 1 cent if an issuer certifies that it has implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve the fraud-prevention standards set forth by the Federal Reserve. In addition, card issuers and networks are prohibited from entering into arrangements requiring that debit card transactions be processed on a single network or only two affiliated networks, and allows merchants to determine transaction routing. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Synovus Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA, which imposes a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with their safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of entire communities where the bank accepts deposits, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s assessment of Synovus Bank&#8217;s CRA record is made available to the public. Further, a less than satisfactory CRA rating will slow, if not preclude, expansion of banking activities and prevent a company from becoming or remaining a financial holding company. Following the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLB&#8221;), CRA agreements with private parties must be disclosed and annual CRA reports must be made to a bank&#8217;s primary federal regulator. A bank holding company will not be permitted to become or remain a financial holding company and no new activities authorized under GLB may be commenced by a holding company or by a bank financial subsidiary if any of its bank subsidiaries received less than a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating in its latest CRA examination. Federal CRA regulations require, among other things, that evidence of discrimination against applicants on a prohibited basis, and illegal or abusive lending practices be considered in the CRA evaluation. Synovus Bank has a rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent CRA evaluation. 

Privacy, Credit Reporting, and Data Security 

The GLB generally prohibits disclosure of consumer information to non-affiliated third parties unless the consumer has been given the opportunity to object and has not objected to such disclosure. Financial institutions are further required to disclose their privacy policies to customers annually. Financial institutions, however, will be required to comply with state law if it is more protective of consumer privacy than the GLB. The GLB also directed federal regulators to prescribe standards for the security of consumer information. Synovus Bank is subject to such standards, as well as standards for notifying customers in the event of a security breach. Synovus Bank utilizes credit bureau data in underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, and sharing of information between affiliates and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act, permits states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of that Act. We are also required to have an information security program to safeguard the confidentiality and security of customer information and to ensure proper disposal. Customers must be notified when unauthorized disclosure involves sensitive customer information that may be misused. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions 

In general, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property, or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for them on the condition that (1) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property, or services from or to the bank or bank holding company or their subsidiaries or (2) the customer not obtain some other credit, property, or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. A bank may, however, offer combined-balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products. The law also expressly permits banks to engage in other forms of tying and authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to grant additional exceptions by regulation or order. Also, certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule. 

Consumer Regulation 

Activities of Synovus Bank are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. These laws and regulations include, among numerous other things, provisions that: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

limit the interest and other charges collected or contracted for by Synovus Bank, including rules respecting the terms of credit cards and of debit card overdrafts; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

govern Synovus Bank&#8217;s disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

require Synovus Bank to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether it is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the communities it serves; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

prohibit Synovus Bank from discriminating on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors when it makes decisions to extend credit; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

govern the manner in which Synovus Bank may collect consumer debts; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in the provision of consumer financial products and services. 

##TABLE_END Mortgage Regulation 

The CFPB adopted a rule that implements the ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the &#8220;ATR/QM rule&#8221;), which requires lenders to consider, among other things, income, employment status, assets, payment amounts, and credit history before approving a mortgage, and provides a compliance &#8220;safe harbor&#8221; for lenders that issue certain &#8220;qualified mortgages.&#8221; The ATR/QM rule defines a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; to have certain specified characteristics, and generally prohibit loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years from being qualified mortgages. The rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that monthly payments be 

calculated based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years of the loan and that the borrower have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. While &#8220;qualified mortgages&#8221; will generally be afforded safe harbor status, a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirements will attach to &#8220;qualified mortgages&#8221; that are &#8220;higher priced mortgages&#8221; (which are generally subprime loans). In addition, the securitizer of asset-backed securities must retain not less than 5% of the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities, unless subject to an exemption for asset-backed securities that are collateralized exclusively by residential mortgages that qualify as &#8220;qualified residential mortgages.&#8221; 

The CFPB has also issued rules to implement requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act pertaining to mortgage loan origination (including with respect to loan originator compensation and loan originator qualifications) as well as integrated mortgage disclosure rules. In addition, the CFPB has issued rules that require servicers to comply with certain standards and practices with regard to: error correction; information disclosure; force-placement of insurance; information management policies and procedures; requiring information about mortgage loss mitigation options be provided to delinquent borrowers; providing delinquent borrowers access to servicer personnel with continuity of contact about the borrower&#8217;s mortgage loan account; and evaluating borrowers&#8217; applications for available loss mitigation options. These rules also address initial rate adjustment notices for adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), periodic statements for residential mortgage loans, and prompt crediting of mortgage payments and response to requests for payoff amounts. 

Non-Discrimination Policies 

Synovus Bank is also subject to, among other things, the provisions of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (the &#8220;ECOA&#8221;) and the Fair Housing Act (the &#8220;FHA&#8221;), both of which prohibit discrimination based on race or color, religion, national origin, sex, and familial status in any aspect of a consumer or commercial credit or residential real estate transaction. The Department of Justice (the &#8220;DOJ&#8221;), and the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued an Interagency Policy Statement on Discrimination in Lending that provides guidance to financial institutions in determining whether discrimination exists, how the agencies will respond to lending discrimination, and what steps lenders might take to prevent discriminatory lending practices. The DOJ has increased its efforts to prosecute what it regards as violations of the ECOA and FHA. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.synovus.com . We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, amendments to these documents and other documents called for by the SEC. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our website at investor.synovus.com under the heading &#8220;Financial Information&#8221; and then under &#8220;SEC Filings.&#8221; These reports are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. 

In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Synovus, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov . 

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our directors, officers and employees and have also adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our board committees, as well as information on how to contact our Board of Directors, are available in the Corporate Governance Section of our website at investor.synovus.com/govdocs . We will post any waivers of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics granted to our directors or executive officers on our website at investor.synovus.com . 

We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our website is not incorporated in this document by reference. 

