 ITEM 1A. &#8211; RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in "Part I - Item IA - Risk Factors&#8221; of Synovus' 2019 Form 10-K which could materially affect its business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or future results. Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. In addition, these risks may be heightened by the disruption and uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the trading price of our securities. 

Other than the risk factors set forth below related to COVID-19, there are no material changes during the period covered by this Report to the risk factors previously disclosed in Synovus' 2019 Form 10-K. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant economic uncertainty and disruption in Synovus&#8217; markets. 

In March 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 caused by a novel strain of the coronavirus was recognized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Shortly thereafter, the President of the U.S. declared a national emergency throughout the U.S. attributable to such outbreak. The outbreak has become increasingly widespread in the U.S., including in the markets in which Synovus operates. Though the magnitude of the impact remains to be seen, Synovus has taken a number of steps to assess the effects of the outbreak and mitigate the adverse consequences to its businesses. Nonetheless, Synovus&#8217;s business will likely be adversely impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19. 

As previously disclosed in &#8220;Part I - Item IA - Risk Factors&#8221; of Synovus' 2019 Form 10-K, Synovus&#8217; operations and profitability are impacted by business and economic conditions generally, as well as those in the primary banking markets in which it operates. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in historic job losses and decreases in economic activity. While the duration and full extent of job losses and magnitude of economic dislocation are not yet known, it is clear that they may impact the ability of individuals and businesses to make payments, adversely affect the value of underlying collateral and the ability of guarantors to make payments in the case of default, which may decrease demand for Synovus&#8217; products and services and otherwise adversely impact Synovus&#8217; financial condition, results of operations and business. While the U.S. and various state and local governments have implemented various programs designed to aid individuals and businesses, the impact of, and extent to which, these efforts will be successful cannot be determined at this time. 

Specifically, many of Synovus&#8217; customers and counterparties have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic downturn. As a result, Synovus has faced and may continue to face a decrease in demand for certain products, reduced access to its branches by its customers, and disruptions in the operations of its vendors and third party partners. The pandemic could also result in recognition of additional credit losses in Synovus&#8217; loan portfolios and increase its allowance for credit losses as both businesses and consumers are negatively impacted by the economic downturn. In addition, in future periods Synovus will be required to evaluate the impact of COVID-19 on the carrying value of certain of its assets, including goodwill, and to conduct impairments tests on those assets, which may result in impairment charges on these assets in future periods that could be material. Synovus may also be required to take valuation allowances with respect to its deferred tax assets in future periods in the event it suffers losses or has reduced income or is unable to rely on future forecasts due to the uncertainty resulting from COVID-19. 

Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on Synovus&#8217; financial condition, results of operations and business. The extent to which the pandemic impacts Synovus&#8217; results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration of the pandemic, government and regulatory responses to the pandemic, new information which may emerge concerning its severity and the actions necessary to contain it or address its impact, among others. Behavioral changes are not fully known and may not be temporary. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in significant market volatility and lower interest rates that could materially affect Synovus&#8217; results of operations and access to capital. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has also caused signi ficant recent volatility in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and may have significant long-term adverse effects on the U.S. economy, including increased instability in capital markets, declines in business and consumer confidence, reduction in economic activity, increased unemployment and recession. This may result in decreased capital and liquidity. If the economic situation deteriorates, federal and state regulators may also consider taking actions such as suspension of dividends, share repurchases and other capital distributions in order to conserve capital and retain capacity, any of which could adversely impact Synovus&#8217; business. Further, sustained adverse effects from the COVID-19 pandemic may also prevent us from satisfying our regulatory and other supervisory requirements or result in downgrades in our credit ratings, making it more difficult to access the capital markets. 

Additionally, the economic disruption caused by COVID-19 has resulted in a number of Federal Reserve actions resulting in market interest rates declining significantly. On March 3, 2020, the 10-year Treasury yield fell below 1.00% for the first time, and the Federal Reserve reduced the target federal funds rate by 50 bps to 1.00% to 1.25%. On March 15, 2020, the Federal Reserve further reduced the target federal funds rate by 100 bps to 0.00% to 0.25% and announced a $700 billion quantitative easing program in response to the expected economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Federal Reserve reduced the interest that it pays on excess reserves from 1.60% to 1.10% on March 3, 2020, and then to 0.10% on March 15, 2020. We expect that these reductions in interest rates, especially if prolonged, could adversely affect Synovus&#8217; net interest income, net interest margins and profitability. 

Furthermore, such low rates increase the risk of a negative interest rate environment in which interest rates drop below zero, either broadly or for some types of instruments. Such an occurrence would likely further reduce the interest Synovus earns on loans and other earning assets, while also likely requiring Synovus to pay to maintain its deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank. Synovus&#8217; systems may not be able to handle adequately a negative interest rate environment and not all variable rate instruments are designed for such a circumstance. Synovus cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary policies in response to COVID-19 or the precise effects that they may have on Synovus&#8217; activities and financial results. 

T he COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and will likely continue to impact, Synovus&#8217; operations. 

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Synovus has taken significant precautions to ensure the health and safety of its team members and customers, which include operating over 95% of its branches as drive-thru and appointment only branches and having over 80% of its team member working remotely. These precautions could impact demand for Synovus&#8217; products and services. The increased reliance on remote access to information systems increases Synovus&#8217; exposure to potential cybersecurity breaches and could impact Synovus&#8217; productivity. Additionally, Synovus&#8217; business customers are increasingly required to work remotely as well and may not have appropriately secured remote networks may be more vulnerable to cyber-attacks or phishing schemes that could also affect us. Furthermore, if a large proportion of Synovus&#8217; key employees were to contract COVID-19 or be quarantined as a result of the virus, Synovus&#8217; operations could be adversely impacted and its business continuity plans may not prove effective. 

Federal, state and local governments have mandated or encouraged financial services companies to make accommodations to borrowers and other customers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Legal and regulatory responses to concerns about the COVID-19 pandemic could result in additional regulation or restrictions affecting the conduct of our business in the future. In addition to the potential affects from negative economic conditions noted above, Synovus instituted a program to help COVID-19 impacted customers. This program includes waiving NSF and monthly service charges and offering payment deferment and other loan relief, as appropriate, for customers impacted by COVID-19. Synovus&#8217; liquidity could be negatively impacted if a significant number of customers apply and are approved for the deferral of payments. In addition, if these deferrals are not effective in mitigating the effect of COVID-19 on Synovus&#8217; customers, it may adversely affect its business and results of operations more substantially over a longer period of time. In addition, a significant amount of the loan growth Synovus experienced in April has been a direct result of PPP loans. This loan growth is likely to end in the near-tern. Furthermore, there has been meaningful litigation against banks such as Synovus related to their participation in the PPP and other government stimulus programs. The costs and effects of such litigation could be material to Synovus. 

