 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

Other than as set forth below, there have been no material change in the Corporation&#8217;s risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 in response to Part I, Item 1A. of such Form 10-K. Such risk factors are incorporated herein by reference. 

The following risk factor is added under "General Risk": 

&#8226; The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our business, and the ultimate impact on our business and financial results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, lowered equity market valuations, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, and increased unemployment levels. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities. As a result, the demand for our products and services may be significantly impacted. Furthermore, the pandemic has influenced and could further influence the recognition of credit losses in our loan portfolios and has increased and could further increase our allowance for credit losses, particularly as businesses remain closed and as more customers may draw on their lines of credit or seek additional loans to help finance their businesses. Similarly, because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, the securities we hold may lose value. Our business operations may also be disrupted if significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic, and we have already temporarily closed certain of our branches and offices. In response to the pandemic, we have also enacted hardship relief assistance for customers experiencing financial difficulty as a result of COVID-19, including fee and penalty waivers, loan deferrals or other scenarios that may help our customers. As well, we are a lender for the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") and other SBA, Federal Reserve or United States Treasury programs that have been or may be created in the future in response to the pandemic. These programs are new and their effects on Comerica's business are uncertain. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

Below we amend the following risk factor discussed under "Credit Risk" in Part II, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. 

&#8226; Declines in the businesses or industries of Comerica's customers - in particular, the energy industry - could cause increased credit losses or decreased loan balances, which could adversely affect Comerica. 

Comerica's business customer base consists, in part, of customers in volatile businesses and industries such as the automotive, commercial real estate, residential real estate and energy industries. These industries are sensitive to global economic conditions, supply chain factors and/or commodities prices. Any decline in one of these businesses or industries could cause increased credit losses, which in turn could adversely affect Comerica. Further, any decline in these businesses or industries could cause decreased borrowings, either due to reduced demand or reductions in the borrowing base available for each customer loan. 

In particular, oil and gas prices have fallen sharply since the beginning of 2020 due to global events. Loans in the Energy business line were $2.1 billion , or approximately 4 percent of total loans, at March 31, 2020 . At March 31, 2020 , the reserve allocation for Energy loans was over 10 percent of total Energy loans. If oil and gas prices continue to remain depressed for a prolonged period of time, Comerica's energy portfolio could experience increased credit losses, which could adversely affect Comerica's financial results. Furthermore, a prolonged period of low oil prices could also have a negative impact on the Texas economy, which could have a material adverse effect on Comerica&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding Comerica's energy portfolio, please see &#8220;Energy Lending&#8221; beginning on page 52 of this report. 

For more information regarding certain of Comerica's lines of business, please see "Concentration of Credit Risk," "Automotive Lending," "Commercial Real Estate Lending," "Residential Real Estate Lending" and &#8220;Energy Lending&#8221; on pages F-25 through F-27 of Comerica&#8217;s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. 

