Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to "first_citizens_bancshares,_inc_2023_Q2" while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
first_citizens_bancshares,_inc_2023_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVB Securities to Be Acquired in Buyout................................................................................................................. 2
          Banking & Finance: Management of SVB Securities Readies Buyout..................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Business News: SVB's New Owner Accuses HSBC of Poaching Bankers.............................................................. 6
                                                                                  
          The Week in Business: A Bank Takeover ................................................................................................................ 9
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score: The Business Week in 7 Stocks ................................................................................ 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVBSecuritiestoBeAcquiredinBuyout                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SVB Securities to Be Acquired in Buyout                                 
          By Dave Sebastian                                                       
          373 words                                                               
          20 June 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          SVB Securities, the investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank, will be acquired in a
          management buyout led by Jeff Leerink, the unit's founder and chief executive officer.
          The deal is backed by funds managed by billionaire Seth Klarman's Baupost Group, Silicon Valley Bank's
          former parent said on Sunday, confirming a Wall Street Journal report earlier this month. SVB Financial
          Group, which used to own the technology-focused bank, has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings
          since mid-March.                                                        
          The bidder group will pay $55 million cash for SVB Securities, repay about $26 million in subordinated debt
          and assume other liabilities, according to a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
          The group will also give SVB Financial an equity instrument that could appreciate in value if the securities
          business goes public in the future.                                     
          The transaction, which could receive court approval by the end of this month, will see SVB Securities go back
          to being called Leerink Partners. The Boston-based business was started as Leerink Swann in 1995, and is
          known for its focus on the healthcare sector. Its founder continued to run the business after it was acquired by
          SVB Financial in 2019.                                                  
          Equity-research business MoffettNathanson will remain under SVB Financial and isn't part of the buyout, SVB
          Financial said.                                                         
                                                                                  
          The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month that SVB Securities' management was readying a buyout
          backed by Baupost, one of the world's largest hedge-fund firms. Klarman, Boston-based Baupost's chief
          executive officer, is a longtime value investor.                        
          Baupost, which has around $26 billion in assets under management, has also been a longtime client of the
          investment bank, according to an SVB Securities statement. Baupost agreed to provide the bulk of the equity
          financing in the management buyout, according to terms mapped out in a court filing.
          U.S. regulators seized Silicon Valley Bank, a separate SVB Financial unit, in March after it struggled to meet
          heavy withdrawal requests from depositors who were spooked by its investment losses. The Federal Deposit
          Insurance Corp. shortly after arranged a sale of the failed bank's U.S. branches, accounts and loans to First
          Citizens Bancshares.                                                    
          Document J000000020230620ej6k0000l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:ManagementofSVBSecuritiesReadiesBuyout                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Management of SVB Securities Readies Buyout          
          By Cara Lombardo and Ben Eisen                                          
          305 words                                                               
          2 June 2023                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank is preparing a management buyout that has the
          backing of Seth Klarman's hedge fund, Baupost Group, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Management's bid for SVB Securities was the only one that emerged earlier this week during bankruptcy
          proceedings for the former parent of Silicon Valley Bank, SVB Financial Group, the people said.
          There are no guarantees that the deal will happen or that Baupost will participate, but if so it could come
          together in the coming days.                                            
          Baupost is one of the world's largest hedge-fund firms and Klarman one of the best-known value investors.
          He makes large, long-term investments and frequently holds billions of dollars in cash so that he can move
          quickly when opportunity strikes.                                       
          In 2019, SVB Financial bought healthcare investment bank Leerink Partners. That bank's founder, Jeff
          Leerink, continues to run the combined business, which was rebranded as SVB Securities in 2022. SVB
          Securities rapidly added to its ranks over the past few years by poaching bankers from rivals as part of a
          push to expand and add a focus on tech clients.                         
          Several of those bankers have since left, including a team of 11 technology bankers who joined Moelis in
          April.                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Silicon Valley Bank was a separate unit of SVB Financial Group. It failed in March after rising interest rates
          triggered huge losses on its investments and it received more than $40 billion of deposit-withdrawal requests
          in a single day. Regulators decided the bank couldn't continue to function and stepped in to seize it.
          In late March, First Citizens Bank acquired large pieces of Silicon Valley Bank, including its deposits, loans
          and branches.                                                           
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Justin Baer contributed to this article.                                
          Document J000000020230602ej620000v                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:SVB'sNewOwnerAccusesHSBCofPoachingBankers                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: SVB's New Owner Accuses HSBC of Poaching Bankers         
          By Josh Mitchell                                                        
          397 words                                                               
          24 May 2023                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The plan was allegedly dubbed "Project Colony."                         
          At around 9 p.m. on Easter Sunday, dozens of top bankers from the recently failed Silicon Valley Bank
          pressed send on an email to their new employer, First Citizens BancShares, announcing their resignation,
          according to a new lawsuit.                                             
          Without delay, the bankers were all hired by HSBC Holdings, the lawsuit says.
          First Citizens says the mass resignation was part of a broad plan by HSBC and a former top SVB banker to
          steal a hugely profitable business that First Citizens had acquired through its purchase of SVB.
                                                                                  
          Much of the business came from SVB's life-sciences and technology-banking team, the lawsuit alleges.
          First Citizens said it would buy most of what was left of Silicon Valley Bank in late March. It acquired billions
          in SVB's deposits and loans, and hoped to leverage SVB's established relationships with businesses in
          technology and other areas to expand its footprint.                     
          In a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, First Citizens sued HSBC for more than
          $1 billion, alleging an illegal "scheme to plunder" one of SVB's core businesses that it says rightly belonged to
          First Citizens.                                                         
                                                                                  
          An HSBC spokeswoman declined to comment Tuesday.                        
          The lawsuit says HSBC's plan stemmed from the British banking giant's purchase of the U.K. arm of SVB on
          March 13 for just over $1. SVB had just collapsed, stoking a banking crisis that would roil markets on both
          sides of the Atlantic. Days later, HSBC hired David Sabow, a former senior executive at SVB, the lawsuit
          says. According to the lawsuit, Sabow devised a plan to recruit more than three dozen top bankers from the
          collapsed SVB to HSBC.                                                  
          Sabow told HSBC it could earn well over $1 billion in profits within five years if the plan worked, the lawsuit
          says. Through HSBC, Sabow didn't respond to a request to comment.       
          Two weeks later, on March 27, First Citizens, a big regional lender based in North Carolina, bought large
          pieces of SVB. Then, on April 9, 42 employees resigned from First Citizens within 30 minutes, and were
          immediately hired by HSBC, the lawsuit says. The lawsuit also accuses Sabow and other former SVB
          bankers of stealing proprietary information that belonged to First Citizens.
          Document J000000020230524ej5o0000b                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheWeekinBusiness:ABankTakeover                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WITH INTEREST                                                           
          Money and Business/Financial Desk; SECTBU                               
          The Week in Business: A Bank Takeover                                   
          By Marie Solis                                                          
          947 words                                                               
          2 April 2023                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          What's Up? (March 26-April 1)                                           
          Silicon Valley Bank Changes Hands                                       
          First Citizens BancShares, a family-run bank in North Carolina, announced last Sunday that it was acquiring
          Silicon Valley Bank, capping off a tumultuous month for the California lender whose collapse touched off a
          wider banking crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized control of SVB and its assets on
          March 10, after a run on deposits left it insolvent, and SVB filed for bankruptcy a week later. First Citizens'
          deal with the F.D.I.C. to take over the bank involved the purchase of about $72 billion in loans at a $16.5
          billion discount. First Citizens also took control of all of the bank's roughly $56 billion in deposits. But an
          additional $90 billion in SVB's securities remain under the purview of the F.D.I.C. The collapse of SVB was
          followed in short succession by two other bank failures. Credit Suisse, which was bought by its rival UBS,
          Switzerland's largest bank, and Signature Bank. New York Community Bancorp later acquired substantially
          all of the remaining deposits at Signature Bank.                        
          And in Other SVB News                                                   
          At a Senate Banking Committee hearing last week on the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank,
          federal regulators blamed the banks' executives for poor management and risk assessment, which, they
          argued, led to the collapses. They also suggested bank managers could face penalties if they did anything
          improper. But the regulators themselves were not off the hook: They were the ones in the hot seat on
          Tuesday, answering questions from lawmakers about why certain red flags went unheeded and how to avoid
          future bank failures. The Federal Reserve, in particular, is under scrutiny for not doing enough to prevent the
          banks' implosions. Michael S. Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision, said he learned about SVB's
          problems only in February. These lines of questioning are expected to continue this week, when the House
          Financial Services Committee holds its own hearing on Wednesday.        
          Not the Usual Treatment                                                 
          Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, did not get the treatment he was used to receiving
          in Washington on Wednesday when he appeared before a committee, led by Senator Bernie Sanders of
          Vermont, scrutinizing him for what lawmakers termed ''illegal union busting.'' In the past, Democrats praised
          Mr. Schultz for his business practices, but last week liberal members of the Senate Committee on Health,
          Education, Labor and Pensions pressed the longtime chief executive with questions about whether he had
          participated in decisions to fire or discipline workers involved in the union drive at Starbucks. Lawmakers said
          they had heard of ''widespread anti-union efforts'' at the company, but Mr. Schultz called those accusations
          ''propaganda'' and instead highlighted Starbucks's pay and benefits for workers.
          What's Next? (April 2-8)                                                
          Taking the Labor Market's Temperature                                   
          Recent job reports took many analysts by surprise, blowing past expectations and breaking a trend line that
          had suggested the jobs market was gradually cooling off. Forecasters were going into Friday's jobs report
          with similar expectations -- the consensus was that employers added 240,000 jobs in March. But it's unclear
          how closely the new data will conform to those predictions. Even amid high-profile layoff announcements at
          companies like Amazon and NPR, jobless claims remain low. And though the banking crisis has fomented
          concerns about the economic outlook -- and darkened the forecast for later this year -- its hasn't yet had an
          effect on jobs figures.                                                 
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The I.R.S.'s Cash Infusion                                              
          The Internal Revenue Service is expected to release its plan this week for how to manage the $80 billion the
          Biden administration has allocated to overhaul the agency, which has struggled in recent years with an
          enormous tax return backlog, staffing shortages, outdated technology and a lack of funding. But shoring up
          the I.R.S. has become a partisan issue, with Republicans fervently opposed to aiding the agency, which they
          argue would give it too much power over taxpayers. Of new concern to conservatives in Congress, as well as
          lobbyists for the tax preparation industry, is a potential plan for the I.R.S. to create its own tax-filing system
          that would allow taxpayers to submit their returns directly to the federal government at no cost.
          Trump's Arraignment                                                     
          Former President Donald J. Trump is likely to be arraigned on Tuesday after a grand jury in Manhattan voted
          last week to indict him for his role in paying hush money to an adult film star during the final weeks of the
          2016 presidential campaign. In the immediate aftermath of the indictment, users on social media channels
          associated with right-wing extremists and conspiracy theorists searched for an explanation for why Mr. Trump
          met this fate. But the responses did not coalesce around any one narrative or call to action: Although some
          urged their fellow Trump supporters to rise to the former president's defense, others suggested it would be
          best to wait until more was known about the indictment and argued an indictment would help him win
          re-election in 2024.                                                    
          What Else?                                                              
          The Federal Reserve's preferred inflation gauge cooled to 5 percent on an annual basis in February. New
          rules released on Friday by the Treasury Department significantly limit the electric vehicles that qualify for
          federal tax credits. Detroit automakers report their March sales figures this week, which will show how the
          Fed's interest rate increases have affected demand for vehicles.        
          This article appeared in print on page BU2.                             
          Document NYTF000020230402ej420004m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore:TheBusinessWeekin7Stocks                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score: The Business Week in 7 Stocks                   
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          708 words                                                               
          1 April 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          FIRST CITIZENS BANCSHARES INC.                                          
          F