 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Refer to Item 1A of Part I of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for a discussion of risk factors relating to the Company&#8217;s business. The Company believes that there has been no material change in its risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company&#8217;s Form 10-K, except for the addition of the following risk factor: 

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our business, and the ultimate impact on our business and financial results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, lowered equity market valuations, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, and dramatically increased unemployment levels. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities. As a result, the demand for our products and services has been and may continue to be significantly impacted. Furthermore, as discussed elsewhere in this report, the pandemic has influenced the recognition of credit losses in our loan portfolios and is expected to do so, particularly as businesses remain closed and as more customers are expected to draw on their lines of credit or seek additional loans to help finance their businesses. Similarly, because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize provisions for credit losses in future periods on the securities we hold as well as reductions in other comprehensive income. Our business operations may also be disrupted if significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic, and we have already temporarily closed certain of our branches. In response to the pandemic, we are also offering payment deferrals and other expanded assistance for mortgage, small business and personal lending customers. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of COVID-19 on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. The length of the pandemic and the efficacy of the extraordinary measures being put in place to address it are unknown. Until the pandemic subsides, we expect continued draws on lines of credit, reduced revenues and increased client defaults. Even after the pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may experience a recession which may be prolonged, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve has taken direct actions that adversely impact interest income. On February 28, 2020, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve stated that it was closely monitoring COVID-19 developments and their effects on the economic outlook, and has taken direct actions that adversely impact interest income. On March 3, 2020, the Federal Reserve reduced the target federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 1.00% to 1.25%. The Federal Reserve also announced it was purchasing Treasury bills into the second quarter of 2020, conducting overnight repurchase agreement operations at least through April 2020, and will continue to reinvest amounts of principal received by the Federal Reserve on its portfolio of treasury and agency debt and mortgage-backed securities. Lastly, the Federal Reserve also reduced the interest it pays on excess reserves from 1.60% to 1.10%. On March 15, 2020, the Federal Reserve further reduced the target federal funds rate by 100 basis points to 0% to 0.25%. The Federal Reserve also announced that it would further increase its holding of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities. We expect that such reductions in interest rates will adversely affect our net interest income and margins and our profitability. 

Table of Contents 

