 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

&#160; 

Business Overview 

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the U.S. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, including residential mortgage, corporate and institutional banking and asset management, providing many of our products and services nationally. Our retail branch network is located primarily in markets across the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southeast. We also have strategic international offices in four countries outside the U.S. At December 31, 2020, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders&#8217; equity were $466.7 billion, $365.3 billion and $54.0 billion, respectively. 

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through organic growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries. 

Pending Acquisition of BBVA USA Bancshares, Inc. 

On November 16, 2020, PNC announced a definitive agreement with BBVA, S.A. to acquire BBVA, a U.S. financial holding company conducting its business operations primarily through its U.S. banking subsidiary, BBVA USA, for a fixed purchase price of $11.6 billion in cash. BBVA USA has over 600 branches in Texas, Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Colorado and New Mexico. The transaction is expected to add approximately $102 billion in total assets, $86 billion of deposits and $66 billion of loans to PNC&#8217;s Consolidated Balance Sheet and to close in mid-2021, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and our Current Reports on Form 8-K dated November 16, 2020 and November 19, 2020 contain additional information regarding this pending acquisition. 

Second Quarter Sale of Equity Investment in BlackRock, Inc. 

In the second quarter of 2020, PNC divested its entire 22.4% equity investment in BlackRock. Net proceeds from the sale were $14.2 billion. The after-tax gain on the sale of $4.3 billion, and donation expense and BlackRock&#8217;s historical results for all periods presented, are reported as discontinued operations. For additional details on the divestiture of our equity investment in BlackRock, see Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic 

The COVID-19 pandemic and public health response to contain it led to a severe recession in the first half of 2020, after the U.S. economy reached a peak in economic activity in February 2020. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the length and severity of the pandemic and the strength or reversal of the economic rebound, including whether there will be additional fiscal stimulus from the federal government and, if so, its size, scope and effectiveness. 

PNC is committed to putting our resources to work to support our customers, communities and the broader financial system. PNC participated in funding PPP loans under the CARES Act and, at December 31, 2020, had $12.0 billion of PPP loans outstanding, down from the $13.7 billion funded during the second quarter of 2020 as a result of loan forgiveness and repayments. PNC also is participating in funding new and second draw PPP loans in 2021 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act. PNC continues to grant 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 1 

loan modifications for customers in need through various hardship relief programs. We analyze and make decisions on these modifications based on each individual borrower&#8217;s situation. PNC is also assisting customers with the PPP loan forgiveness process. See the Troubled Debt Restructurings and Loan Modifications in the Credit Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 for details on our commercial and consumer loan modifications. 

Our retail branches have largely reopened as we continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our customers and employees, while complying with all state and local health mandates and managing in accordance with Center for Disease Control guidelines. As of February 16, 2021, approximately 98% of PNC branch lobbies were fully opened. 

Our technology infrastructure and systems are designed for business resiliency and security. We have leveraged these capabilities and our business continuity plans to execute a work-from-home strategy, which has resulted in many of our employees working from home during 2020 and into 2021. PNC has also implemented various strategies that are designed to promote the health and safety of our employees who need to be on-site to execute their job responsibilities. 

See the Supervision and Regulation section of this Item 1 for additional detail on the CARES Act and other governmental responses to the pandemic and its economic and financial impacts. Also see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report for a description of the associated risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Subsidiaries 

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2020 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and 51 active non-bank subsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments and historic rehabilitation investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, a national bank headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on certain of our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report. 

Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies 

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference: &#160; 

##TABLE_START 

&#160; &#160; 

Form 10-K page Average Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis 

189 Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income 190 Book Values Of Securities 50 and 118-121 Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities 50 and 121 Loan Types 49, 64, 123-124 and 191 Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity 

192 Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets 64-76, 104-111, 122-132 and 191 Potential Problem Loans 64-76 and 126 Summary Of Loan Loss Experience 73-76, 131-132 and 193 Allocation Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses 73-76 and 193 Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits 189 Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More 194 Selected Consolidated Financial Data 39-41 Short-term Borrowings &#8211; not included as average balances during 2020, 2019 and 2018 were less than 30% of total shareholders&#8217; equity at the end of each period. &#160; ##TABLE_END

Supervision and Regulation 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is a BHC registered under the BHC Act and a financial holding company under the GLB Act. 

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 20 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The consequences of noncompliance with these, or other applicable laws or regulations, can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions. 

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies, the Federal Reserve and the OCC. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of 

2 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls and internal audit function, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. 

The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. 

The CFPB is responsible for examining us for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB&#8217;s examinations (which are not publicly available) also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements. 

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the CFTC due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our businesses with operations outside the U.S. also are subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business. 

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, expand our operations geographically, or reconfigure existing operations. 

Among the areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus are compliance with the BSA and anti-money laundering laws, capital and liquidity management (including stress testing), the structure and effectiveness of enterprise risk management frameworks, the management of risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the protection of confidential customer information, cyber security, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, and compliance with fair lending and other consumer protection laws and regulations, including those governing retail sales practices, fee disclosures, unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, collection practices, and protections for military service members and individuals in bankruptcy. 

New legislation, changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the operations and profitability of our businesses. We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on current laws and regulations and is subject to potentially material change. See also the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory initiatives on the regulatory environment for us and the financial services industry. 

The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial sectors in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation, electronic commerce, data security and privacy. 

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets and financial system in general. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 3 

COVID-19 Relief 

Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the U.S. Government has taken a wide variety of actions in order to aid businesses and consumers financially impacted by COVID-19, facilitate the orderly functioning of financial markets, and assist banking organizations in being able to meet the credit and other banking needs of their customers and communities. 

The CARES Act, as subsequently amended by the PPP and Health Care Enhancement Act and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, authorizes the SBA and the Treasury Department to expend up to $943 billion to support the issuance by SBA-approved lenders of first-draw loans of up to $10 million and second-draw loans of up to $2 million to small and medium-sized businesses that meet certain size and other eligibility requirements under the PPP. Borrowers may use the proceeds of a PPP loan only for specified purposes (such as meeting payroll) and borrowers can have the loan partially or fully forgiven (and repaid by the SBA) to the extent the borrower expends funds during a limited period following receipt of the loan proceeds for payroll costs or other specified expenses. Eligible businesses may apply for a first-or second-draw PPP loan until March 31, 2021. Borrowers and lenders are required to provide certain certifications and documentation, and conduct certain reviews, in connection with PPP loan applications as specified in the PPP rules and associated guidance, which are subject to change and further clarification by the SBA and Treasury. PNC Bank is participating in the PPP. 

The CARES Act also permits residential and multifamily mortgage borrowers with federally backed mortgages to request payment forbearance for up to six months or 30 days, respectively, under a streamlined process if the borrower is experiencing a financial hardship due to the COVID-19 national emergency. The borrower may request an extension of these forbearance periods, for up to an additional six months for residential borrowers and 60 days for multifamily borrowers. Residential mortgage borrowers with federally backed mortgages, and tenants of multifamily borrowers that receive forbearance under these provisions, also benefit from certain foreclosure and eviction protections. For these purposes, federally backed mortgages include those guaranteed or insured by the FNMA, FHLMC, FHA or VA. Under revised Federal Housing Finance Agency policies, servicers of FNMA and FHLMC-guaranteed residential mortgages, such as PNC Bank, will no longer have an obligation to advance scheduled payments on a mortgage loan that is in a mortgage-backed security once the servicer has advanced four months of missed payments on the loan. Various states and municipalities also have imposed new foreclosure and eviction limitations of varying scope and degree in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CARES Act also provides consumers certain temporary protections up to 120 days after the termination of the COVID-19 national emergency against the reporting of negative credit information to a credit reporting agency as a result of loan accommodations provided. 

The CARES Act, as modified by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, permits financial institutions to temporarily suspend the requirements under GAAP to categorize loan modifications related to the COVID-19 pandemic as a TDR through the earlier of 60 days after the national emergency termination or January 2, 2022, and the determination of such a loan modification as being a TDR. The federal banking agencies, along with the CFPB and the National Credit Union Administration, and separately the FFIEC, released statements that, among other things, clarify the agencies&#8217; and FFIEC&#8217;s views on TDRs, including the interaction between agency guidance on TDRs and the CARES Act, and prudent risk management and consumer protection principles. We are following the provisions within the CARES Act, as amended, and the agencies&#8217; and FFIEC&#8217;s statements when evaluating our COVID-19 related loan modification requests. 

Federal Reserve Liquidity Facilities. To help promote the flow of credit and the orderly functioning of financial markets, the Federal Reserve in 2020 established a number of new lending or liquidity facilities using its emergency lending authority under section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act. Many of these facilities are or were supported by funding provided by the Treasury Department, either from the Emergency Stabilization Fund or under the CARES Act. Certain of these facilities (the Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility, Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility, Municipal Liquidity Facility, Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility and Main Street Lending Facility) have ceased making or purchasing new extensions of credit. The following emergency facilities continue to make or purchase new extensions of credit: 

&#8226; Commercial Paper Funding Facility, which purchases highly rated unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper issued by eligible U.S. issuers; 

&#8226; Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility, which provides lenders funding secured by SBA-guaranteed loans made under the PPP described above; 

&#8226; Primary Dealer Credit Facility, which provides secured funding to broker-dealers that are registered as primary dealers with the Federal Reserve in exchange for a broad range of collateral; and 

&#8226; Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, which provides liquidity to money market mutual funds by lending to U.S. banking entities in exchange for highly-rated collateral acquired from money market mutual funds. 

In October 2020, the Federal banking agencies finalized rules to encourage banking organizations to use the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility and Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility. Under the rules, banking organizations may exclude from leverage and risk-based capital requirements any eligible assets sold or pledged to the Federal Reserve on a non-recourse basis as part of these programs, and they are required to neutralize the effect under the LCR of participating in these programs. The banking 

4 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

agencies also clarified that, consistent with the CARES Act, covered loans originated by a banking organization under the PPP will receive a zero percent risk weight for regulatory capital purposes, even if not pledged to the Federal Reserve. 

In addition, in March 2020, the Federal Reserve announced changes to its discount window lending for insured depository institutions, such as PNC Bank. These changes permit insured depository institutions to borrow from the discount window, on a fully collateralized basis, for periods of up to 90 days, with such loans being prepayable and renewable by the borrowing institution on a daily basis. These changes, which will remain in effect until the Federal Reserve announces otherwise, provide insured depository institutions additional tools for managing their liquidity profile, including for purposes of the LCR. The Federal Reserve must publicly disclose the details (including the name of the borrower or counterparty) of discount window transactions and transactions conducted by facilities established by the Federal Reserve on a delayed basis. 

The Federal banking agencies, CFPB, SEC, and CFTC have issued other rules, guidance, statements, orders or other actions to, among other things, facilitate the continued provision of financial services, encourage financial institutions to work with customers affected by the pandemic, and reduce operational or regulatory challenges resulting from the pandemic and the private-sector and governmental actions designed to mitigate its effects. These actions and statements, among others, clarified when appraisals or evaluations are required for real estate-secured transactions and allowed required appraisals and evaluations to be deferred in certain circumstances, encouraged banking organizations to use their capital and liquidity buffers to continue to provide credit to customers and support the smooth functioning of markets, and encouraged financial institutions to make available small-dollar loans to consumers and small businesses affected by COVID-19. 

Banking Regulation and Supervision 

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning . PNC and PNC Bank are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. The foundation of the agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rules is the international regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee, the international body responsible for developing global regulatory standards for banking organizations for consideration and adoption by national jurisdictions. The regulatory capital rules establish minimum requirements for the ratio of a banking organization&#8217;s regulatory capital to its risk-weighted assets, referred to as risk-based capital requirements, as well as for the ratio of its regulatory capital to measures of assets and other exposures, referred to as leverage capital requirements. The agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rules have undergone significant change since 2013, when the agencies adopted final rules to implement the Basel Committee&#8217;s international regulatory capital framework, known as &#8220;Basel III&#8221;, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

In 2019, the federal banking agencies adopted rules to better tailor the application of their capital, liquidity and enhanced prudential requirements for banking organizations to the asset size and risk profile (as measured by certain regulatory metrics) of the banking organization (the &#8220;2019 Tailoring Rules&#8221;). Effective January 1, 2020, the agencies&#8217; capital and liquidity rules classify all BHCs with $100 billion or more in total assets into one of four categories (Category I, Category II, Category III and Category IV), with the most stringent capital and liquidity requirements applying to Category I firms and the least restrictive requirements applying to Category IV firms. The classification of any bank subsidiary of a BHC generally follows that of its parent BHC. PNC and PNC Bank currently are Category III firms because PNC (i) has more than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in consolidated total assets, (ii) is not designated as a GSIB, and (iii) has less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity. PNC and PNC Bank would become a Category I or II institution, and subject to more stringent capital and liquidity standards, if PNC were at some point in the future to have $700 billion or more in total consolidated assets, be designated as a GSIB, or have $75 billion or more in cross-jurisdictional activity. As of December 31, 2020, PNC had cross-jurisdictional activities for these purposes of $13.3 billion. PNC does not expect the pending acquisition of BBVA, if consummated, would affect its classification as a Category III institution. 

The regulatory capital rules generally divide regulatory capital into three components: CET1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together with CET1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, and qualifying minority interest less required deductions. Prior to January 1, 2020, CET1 capital for PNC and PNC Bank also included AOCI related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans. Effective January 1, 2020, and as permitted by the 2019 Tailoring Rules, PNC and PNC Bank elected to exclude AOCI related to these items from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less required deductions. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt and, subject to certain quantitative limits, ACL, less any required deductions from Tier 2 capital. The regulatory capital rules limit the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries may be included in regulatory capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from Total capital. 

Under the regulatory capital rules effective as of January 1, 2020, PNC and PNC Bank must deduct investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, MSRs and deferred tax assets (in each case, net of associated deferred tax liabilities) from CET1 capital to the extent such items individually exceed 25% of the institution&#8217;s adjusted CET1 capital. As of December 31, 2020, PNC and PNC Bank&#8217;s investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, MSRs and deferred tax assets did not exceed this threshold. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 5 

The agencies&#8217; capital rules also permit banking organizations to elect to phase-in, on a straight-line basis over a three-year period, the day-one regulatory capital effects of implementing the FASB&#8217;s ASU 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), commonly referred to as the CECL standard. PNC implemented the CECL standard effective January 1, 2020, but elected not to implement the phase-in of the day-one regulatory capital effects of the standard. See Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for more detail on the CECL standard. Separately, the Federal banking agencies adopted a rule that permits banking organizations that are subject to CECL during 2020 to delay CECL&#8217;s estimated impact on CET1 capital. CECL&#8217;s estimated impact on CET1 capital is the change in retained earnings at adoption plus or minus 25% of the change in CECL ACL at the balance sheet date compared to CECL ACL at transition. For institutions electing to utilize this CECL transition rule for regulatory capital, the estimated CECL impact is added to CET1 through December 31, 2021, then phased-out over the following three years. PNC and PNC Bank have elected this five-year transition period effective March 31, 2020, which impacts regulatory capital ratios disclosed in this Report. 

PNC and PNC Bank are required to use the standardized approach for determining a banking organization&#8217;s risk-weighted assets for purposes of calculating the risk-based capital ratios. The standardized approach for risk-weighted assets takes into account credit and market risk. To calculate risk-weighted assets under the standardized approach for credit risk, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are generally multiplied by risk weights set forth in the rules, with the risk weights increasing as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset or exposure increases. For certain types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure. High volatility commercial real estate, past due, securitization and equity exposures, as well as MSRs and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital, are generally subject to higher risk weights than other types of exposures. Under the market risk capital rule, risk-weighted asset amounts for covered trading positions are determined based on the calculation of VAR (including stressed value-at-risk), specific risk, incremental risk and comprehensive risk amounts, as specified in the capital rules. 

We refer to the capital ratios calculated using the definition of capital under the agencies&#8217; Basel III capital rules and, for the risk-based ratios, standardized risk-weighted assets, as our Basel III regulatory capital ratios. 

The risk-based capital rules establish certain minimum standards for the capital ratios of banking organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank. Banking organizations must maintain a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a Total capital ratio of 8.0%, in each case in relation to risk-weighted assets, to be considered &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; In 2020, the Federal Reserve introduced a CET1 SCB for BHCs subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process, such as PNC. The SCB is calculated based on the difference between a firm&#8217;s starting and minimum CET1 ratio (as projected by the Federal Reserve) in the Supervisory Severely Adverse scenario during the CCAR process, plus four quarters of the organization&#8217;s planned common stock dividends (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), subject to a floor of 2.5%. Based on PNC&#8217;s performance under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress tests as part of CCAR 2020, PNC&#8217;s SCB for the period from the fourth quarter of 2020 through the third quarter of 2021 was set at 2.5%. While PNC Bank is not subject to a SCB, PNC Bank is required to maintain a capital conservation buffer in the form of CET1 equal to a fixed 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. 

PNC and PNC Bank must maintain risk-based capital above the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements plus its SCB (in the case of PNC) or capital conservation buffer (in the case of PNC Bank) in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and repurchases of any Tier 1 capital instrument, such as common and qualifying preferred stock, and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. As a result, PNC and PNC Bank must maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 10.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. Because PNC&#8217;s SCB is established as part of the CCAR process, and is based on PNC&#8217;s projected performance (as determined by the Federal Reserve) under the relevant Supervisory Severely Adverse scenario (which can change, potentially materially, from stress test to stress test), PNC&#8217;s SCB may vary, potentially materially, over time and, thus, PNC may be required to maintain capital above these levels to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. In addition, while a firm&#8217;s SCB is typically determined as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual CCAR process, the Federal Reserve has reserved the right to conduct supervisory stress tests, require a firm to submit a revised capital plan, and calculate a firm&#8217;s SCB, more frequently. BHCs subject to a SCB, such as PNC, generally may increase their capital distributions without seeking prior Federal Reserve approval, provided the BHC otherwise complies with its SCB and any other applicable capital or capital distribution requirements. However, in light of ongoing economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve has imposed special limitations on dividends and share repurchases by CCAR-participating BHCs during the first quarter of 2021 and these restrictions may be continued in future quarters, potentially in modified form. 

For Category III banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank), these higher SCB or capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero in the U.S. A Federal Reserve policy statement establishes the framework and factors the Federal Reserve would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking 

6 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the Federal Reserve determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, PNC and PNC Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

The regulatory capital rules also require that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital as compared to average consolidated assets, referred to as the leverage ratio, and require Category III banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital as compared to total leverage exposure, referred to as the SLR. Total leverage exposure takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%, and Category III banking organizations must maintain a minimum SLR of 3.0%. As of December 31, 2020, the leverage and SLR ratios of PNC and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level. 

PNC and PNC Bank are not subject to the additional CET1 capital surcharge, minimum long-term debt requirement, minimum TLAC, or enhanced SLR requirements that apply to U.S. GSIBs. 

Failure to meet applicable capital requirements could subject a banking organization to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal banking agencies, including a limitation on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital and, in severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; The thresholds at which an insured depository institution is considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; are based on (i) the institution&#8217;s CET1, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios; (ii) the institution&#8217;s leverage ratio; and (iii) for the definitions of &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221;, the institution&#8217;s SLR (if applicable). Generally, the smaller an institution&#8217;s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the greater the scope and severity of the agencies&#8217; powers. Business activities may also be affected by an institution&#8217;s capital classification. For example, as a financial holding company, PNC and PNC Bank must remain &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; 

At December 31, 2020, PNC and PNC Bank exceeded the required ratios for classification as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, including the levels of capital required to be considered &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; see the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report and Note 20 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

In addition to regulatory capital requirements, we are subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, capital stress testing requirements and CCAR process, as well as the DFAST requirements of the Federal Reserve and the OCC. 

As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital planning process of BHCs, including PNC, that have $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. For us, this capital planning assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve that describes the company&#8217;s planned capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, engage in common stock repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments, during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the Federal Reserve under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule provides that a BHC must resubmit a new capital plan prior to the next annual submission date if, among other things, there has been or will be a material change in the BHC&#8217;s risk profile, financial condition or corporate structure since its last capital plan submission. In light of the economic uncertainty presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve required large BHCs like PNC to resubmit their capital plans and additional stress test results in December 2020. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it expects to complete the review of these resubmitted capital plans in early 2021. 

In evaluating PNC&#8217;s capital plan, the Federal Reserve also considers a number of qualitative factors. In assessing a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes, the Federal Reserve considers whether the BHC has sound and effective governance to oversee these processes. The Federal Reserve&#8217;s evaluation focuses on whether a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes are supported by a strong risk management framework to identify, measure and assess material risks and that provides a strong foundation to capital planning. The Federal Reserve also considers the comprehensiveness of a BHC&#8217;s control framework and evaluates a BHC&#8217;s policy guidelines for capital planning and assessing capital adequacy. A BHC&#8217;s stress testing scenario design processes and approaches for estimating the impact of stress on its capital position, including stress testing models and non-model qualitative approaches, are comprehensively reviewed to ensure that projections reflect the impact of appropriately stressful conditions, as well as risks idiosyncratic to the BHC, on its capital position. Significant deficiencies in a BHC&#8217;s capital planning and stress testing processes 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 7 

may result in supervisory directives that require the firm to address the identified deficiencies and, potentially, a downgrade in the BHC&#8217;s supervisory capital positions and planning rating. 

In connection with the 2021 CCAR exercise, we must file our capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of December 31, 2020, with the Federal Reserve by April 6, 2021. We expect to receive the Federal Reserve&#8217;s response to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2021 CCAR, as well as PNC&#8217;s preliminary SCB for the period from the fourth quarter of 2021 through the third quarter of 2022, in June 2021. The Federal Reserve must provide firms their final SCB for this period by August 31, 2021, which would reflect any changes made to the firm&#8217;s planned common stock dividends to remain in compliance with the firm&#8217;s SCB. 

As part of the annual CCAR and DFAST processes, the Federal Reserve releases certain revenue, loss and capital results for each participating firm from its supervisory stress testing exercises. As a Category III institution, PNC must conduct a company-run DFAST stress test biennially in even numbered years and release PNC&#8217;s projections of certain revenue, loss and capital results from the exercise under the agencies&#8217; hypothetical supervisory severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the agencies&#8217; DFAST capital action assumptions. 

Regulatory Liquidity Standards and Liquidity Risk Management Requirements . The Basel Committee&#8217;s Basel III framework also includes short-term liquidity standards (LCR) and long-term funding standards (NSFR). 

The U.S. banking agencies&#8217; LCR rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and HQLA to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions prescribed in the rules (net cash outflow). A company&#8217;s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as calculated in accordance with the haircuts and limitations in the rule, divided by its net cash outflows, with the quotient expressed as a percentage. The regulatory minimum LCR that covered banking organizations are required to maintain is 100%. PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis. If either institution&#8217;s LCR is below the minimum requirement for three consecutive business days, the institution must promptly provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum LCR requirement. At December 31, 2020, the LCR for PNC and PNC Bank exceeded the required minimum levels. 

The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. In 2020, the federal banking agencies finalized rules that would implement the NSFR in the U.S., which become effective July 1, 2021. The rules require a covered BHC to calculate its NSFR as the ratio of its ASF to its RSF amount over a one-year horizon. The regulatory minimum ratio for all covered banking organizations (expressed as a percentage) is 100%. PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the NSFR on an ongoing basis. If either institution&#8217;s NSFR falls, or is likely to fall below, the minimum requirement, the institution must provide its regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum NSFR requirement. We expect PNC and PNC Bank to be in compliance with the NSFR when it becomes effective. 

As Category III institutions with less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, PNC and PNC Bank are subject to reduced LCR and NSFR requirements, with each company&#8217;s LCR net outflows and RSF (as calculated under the rules) reduced by 15%, thereby reducing the amount of HQLA or ASF each institution must hold to meet the LCR and NSFR minimum requirements, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, PNC had weighted short-term wholesale funding for these purposes of $31.4 billion. 

The Federal Reserve requires large BHCs, including PNC, to publicly disclose certain quantitative and qualitative measures of their LCR- and NSFR-related liquidity profile. These disclosures include major components used to calculate the LCR and NSFR ( e.g. , HQLA, cash outflows and inflows for the LCR, and ASF and RSF for the NSFR, at the consolidated parent company), and a qualitative discussion of the BHC&#8217;s LCR and NSFR results, including, among other things, key drivers of the results, composition of HQLA and ASF, and concentration of funding sources. 

As a Category III institution, PNC also is subject to Federal Reserve rules that require PNC to, among other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC&#8217;s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

For additional discussion of regulatory liquidity requirements, refer to the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report. 

Source of Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends . The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank. PNC Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. PNC Bank is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 20 Regulatory Matters in the 

8 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity is also available in the Liquidity and Capital Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report. 

Federal Reserve rules provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Dodd-Frank requires that the Federal Reserve jointly adopt new rules with the OCC and the FDIC to implement this source of strength requirement. These joint rules have not yet been proposed. Consistent with this source of strength policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the CCAR exercise, discussed above, the Federal Reserve has expected capital plans to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios. 

Enhanced Prudential Requirements . Under Federal Reserve rules, PNC and other BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more are subject to various enhanced prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management. For PNC, these rules, among other things, establish liquidity stress testing requirements (discussed above), limitations on PNC&#8217;s aggregate net credit exposures to any single, unaffiliated company (referred to as the SCCL), and certain oversight and governance responsibilities for PNC&#8217;s Chief Risk Officer, the Board of Directors, and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s SCCL rules, PNC&#8217;s aggregate net credit exposure (including exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, investments in securities and derivative transactions) to any unaffiliated counterparty may not exceed 25% of PNC&#8217;s Tier 1 capital. 

The Federal Reserve is required to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt to equity ratio on a BHC if the federal agencies that comprise the FSOC determine that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the U.S. and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk. The Federal Reserve also is required to establish early remediation requirements for BHCs with more than $250 billion in total assets and continues to work towards finalizing these requirements. 

The Federal Reserve may continue to develop the set of enhanced prudential standards that apply to large BHCs in order to further promote the resiliency of such firms and the U.S. financial system. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act . The GLB Act permits a qualifying BHC, such as PNC, to become a &#8220;financial holding company&#8221; and thereby engage in, or affiliate with companies engaging in, a broader range of financial activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies, insurance agents and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be &#8220;financial in nature or incidental thereto&#8221; or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be &#8220;complementary&#8221; to financial activities. We became a financial holding company in 2000. A BHC qualifies to become a financial holding company if the BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions are &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; and its subsidiary depository institutions have a rating under the CRA of Satisfactory or better. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities. As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities, and we generally are permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. 

In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through a &#8220;financial subsidiary.&#8221; PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve (other than insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities and merchant banking). In order to establish a financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; and the national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must have a CRA rating of Satisfactory or better. 

If a financial holding company or a national bank with a financial subsidiary fails to continue to meet the applicable &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well managed&#8221; criteria, the financial holding company or national bank must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve or the OCC, respectively, that, among other things, identifies how the capital or management deficiencies will be corrected. Until such deficiencies are corrected, the relevant agency may impose limits or conditions on the activities of the company or bank, and the company or bank may not engage in, or acquire a company engaged in, the types of expanded activities only permissible for a financial holding company or financial subsidiary without prior approval of the relevant agency. 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 9 

In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new activity, if any of its insured depository institutions receives a CRA rating of less than Satisfactory. A national bank&#8217;s financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a CRA rating of less than Satisfactory. At December 31, 2020, PNC Bank had an Outstanding rating with respect to CRA. 

In 2020, the OCC finalized rules to modernize its regulations implementing the CRA. The rules significantly alter what activities by a bank qualify for CRA credit, where such activities must be conducted to receive credit, how the agencies measure a bank&#8217;s CRA performance, and how a bank must document and report its CRA qualifying activities. The new rules would go into effect for PNC Bank on January 1, 2023. 

Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule and its implementing regulations prohibit banking entities from engaging in short-term trading as principal and having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds, private equity funds, and certain other private funds (together, &#8220;covered funds&#8221;), unless an exemption or exception applies. For example, the exemptions under the Volcker Rule allow banking entities to trade as principal for securities underwriting, market making and risk-mitigating hedging purposes, subject to a variety of conditions. As a result of rule changes adopted in 2019, PNC and PNC Bank are subject to simplified and tailored compliance program requirements because each entity has trading assets and liabilities of less than $20 billion. 

To date, the prohibitions under the final Volcker Rule regulations have not had a material effect on our businesses or revenue; however it is possible that the regulations may be modified in the future. Moreover, the conditions for engaging in exempted trading activities and having permissible relationships with a private fund under the regulations could, depending on the agencies&#8217; approach to interpreting them, cause us to forego engaging in hedging or other transactions that we would otherwise undertake in the ordinary course of business and, thus, to some extent, may limit our ability to most effectively hedge our risks, manage our balance sheet or provide products or services to our customers. We also have divested prohibited investments in covered funds and received extensions allowing an extended conformance period for our remaining $0.1 billion interests in illiquid covered funds. 

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision . The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate based on the actions, operations or risk management programs of a BHC, an insured depository institution or their subsidiaries, and the Federal Reserve and the OCC have the ability to take enforcement action against PNC and PNC Bank, respectively, to prevent and remedy acts and practices that the agencies determine to be unfair or deceptive. A finding that we have engaged in a deceptive act or practice may have collateral consequences on our ability to rely on certain exemptions, or take advantage of certain provisions of, the securities laws absent a government waiver of such restrictions. 

Moreover, less than satisfactory examination ratings, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, or regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or BHC to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or continue to conduct existing activities. Furthermore, the OCC has established certain heightened risk management and governance standards for large banks, including PNC Bank. The guidelines, among other things, establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework, describe the appropriate risk management roles and responsibilities of front line units, independent risk management, internal audit, and the board of directors, and provide that a covered bank should have a comprehensive written statement that articulates its risk appetite and serves as a basis for the framework. If the OCC determines that a covered national bank is not in compliance with these or other enforceable guidelines (including guidelines relating to information security standards), the OCC may require the bank to submit a corrective action plan and may initiate enforcement action against the bank if an acceptable plan is not submitted or the bank fails to comply with an approved plan. 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s implementing regulation, Regulation W, place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates (for example between PNC Bank, on the one hand, and The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the other hand). In general, Section 23A and Regulation W limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and any single affiliate to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and all its affiliates to 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, prohibit a bank from purchasing low-quality assets from an affiliate, and require certain covered transactions to be secured with prescribed amounts of collateral. Section 23B generally requires that transactions between a bank and its affiliates be on terms that are at least as favorable to the bank as the terms that would apply in comparable transactions between the bank and a third party. Dodd-Frank amended Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative transaction with the affiliate. The Federal Reserve has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions. 

10 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

The Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve regulations also place quantitative limitations and conditions on extensions of credit by a bank to its executive officers, directors, or principal shareholders and their related interests (including any company controlled by such persons). Generally, extensions of credit by a bank to such individuals, companies, and related interests must comply with certain individual and aggregate lending limits, as well as procedural and qualitative requirements. As a result of the amount of PNC common stock held by its advised mutual funds and other accounts, the Vanguard Group is considered a principal shareholder of PNC Bank for purposes of these regulations. The federal banking agencies have issued an interagency statement addressing the application of these insider lending restrictions to the other portfolio companies owned or controlled by the advised funds and accounts of a fund complex that could be considered a principal shareholder of a bank, which is effective through January 1, 2022. 

The Federal Reserve and the OCC have provided guidance regarding incentive and other elements of compensation provided to executives and other employees at banking organizations they regulate, both as general industry-wide guidance and guidance specific to select larger companies, including PNC. These guidelines are intended to ensure that the incentive compensation practices of covered banking organizations do not encourage excessive risk-taking. Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC and two other regulatory agencies to adopt regulations governing incentive compensation provided by regulated financial services companies to their executives and other employees. These agencies jointly proposed regulations in 2011 and again in 2016 to implement these requirements. Final regulations have not been adopted. 

The trust, investment advisory and other fiduciary activities conducted by PNC Bank also are subject to the OCC&#8217;s regulations governing the fiduciary activities of national banks, as well as applicable state fiduciary laws. The OCC&#8217;s regulations, among other things, set standards for the administration of fiduciary accounts, prohibit or govern potential conflicts of interests, and establish recordkeeping requirements for fiduciary accounts. 

The Federal Reserve&#8217;s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or BHC, or to merge or consolidate with any other BHC. The BHC Act and other federal law enumerates the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the U.S.; the organizations&#8217; compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. 

The Federal Reserve&#8217;s prior approval also is required, and similar factors are considered, for a BHC to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of a savings association or savings and loan holding company, or to merge or consolidate with a savings and loan holding company. In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Federal Reserve also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. A BHC is generally prohibited from merging or consolidating with, or acquiring, another company or bank if upon consummation the resulting company would control 10% or more of deposits in the U.S. or a state, or if the resulting company&#8217;s liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate liabilities of the U.S. financial sector (including the U.S. liabilities of foreign financial companies). In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve, could order the break-up of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank to acquire another insured bank or savings association by merger or to acquire deposits or substantially all of the assets of such institutions. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve in connection with the acquisition of a bank or BHC. Approval of the OCC and the FDIC is required to merge a nonbank entity into PNC Bank. PNC and PNC Bank have requested the prior approval of the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively, to acquire BBVA and BBVA USA, and to merge BBVA with and into PNC and BBVA USA with and into PNC Bank. 

In 2020, the Federal Reserve finalized rules governing when a BHC is presumed to &#8220;control&#8221; another company for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby causing the company to be considered a subsidiary for purposes of the BHC Act. The rules establish a set of presumptions identifying when a BHC would be deemed to control another company, with the nature and scope of relationships a BHC may have with a non-controlled company (e.g., director or officer representatives, scope of business relationships, etc.) declining as the BHC&#8217;s voting ownership percentage in the company increases. 

FDIC Insurance and Related Matters . PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to deposit premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are &#8220;risk based.&#8221; Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary federal banking regulator through its 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 11 

examination and supervision of the bank and the bank&#8217;s holdings of assets or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC, including brokered deposits. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank&#8217;s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. 

PNC Bank is subject to certain enhanced deposit insurance recordkeeping requirements adopted by the FDIC, which are designed to assist the FDIC to promptly determine whether, or to what extent, a large bank&#8217;s deposits are covered by deposit insurance if the bank were to fail. These requirements became effective on April 1, 2020. Banks may request an extension of this compliance date in certain circumstances for up to one year. 

Federal banking laws and regulations also apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In addition, brokered deposits are generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR. In December 2020, the FDIC finalized rules that establish a new framework for determining whether deposits are considered &#8220;brokered.&#8221; 

Resolution and Recovery Planning. BHCs that have $100 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, are required to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan (including a public summary) that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on a covered BHC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company&#8217;s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. PNC generally must file a resolution plan with the Federal Reserve and FDIC at least once each three-year period, with submissions alternating between a full plan and a plan targeted on certain areas or subjects identified by the agencies. 

PNC&#8217;s next resolution plan is scheduled to be a targeted plan and is due to be filed by December 17, 2021. The agencies, however, have reserved the ability to alter the scheduled filing date for a covered company, request an interim update before a covered company&#8217;s next scheduled filing date and require a covered company to submit a full resolution plan in lieu of a scheduled targeted plan. 

The FDIC also requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, to periodically submit a resolution plan (including a public summary) to the FDIC that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. In January 2021, the FDIC lifted the moratorium that it had instituted on resolution plan filings by insured depository institutions, but it is unclear at this time when PNC Bank&#8217;s next resolution plan will be due. Depending on how the agencies conduct their review of the resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs. 

PNC Bank also is subject to OCC guidelines that establish standards for recovery planning. These guidelines require a covered bank to develop and maintain a recovery plan that is evaluated and updated annually that, among other things, identifies a range of options that could be undertaken by the covered bank to restore its financial strength and viability should identified triggering events occur. The recovery plan guidelines are enforceable in the same manner as the other guidelines the OCC has established. 

CFPB Regulation and Supervision . The CFPB examines PNC and PNC Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services that we offer. The consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by PNC or PNC Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that we receive, require that we provide additional consumer disclosures, alter the way we provide our products and services, impair our ability to compete with other providers of financial products or services, or expose us to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. The CFPB has engaged in rulemakings that affect, among other things, consumer remittance transfers, the qualified mortgage definition under the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Debt Collection 

12 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

Practices Act, and payday, vehicle title, and certain high-cost installment loans and may establish, or modify, rules governing other aspects of consumer financial products or services in the future. 

Securities and Derivatives Regulation 

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, respectively, and related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. These rules, for example, require that broker-dealers and investment advisers act in a customer&#8217;s best interest when making investment recommendations to retail customers, which includes managing conflicts of interest, providing required disclosures and exercising a duty of care in making investment recommendations. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. 

The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect our ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns. 

PNC Bank is provisionally registered as swap dealer with the CFTC. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap dealing activities, PNC Bank has not registered (and currently does not intend to register) with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. 

PNC Bank&#8217;s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses are subject to the regulations and requirements imposed on CFTC-registered swap dealers, and the CFTC (and for certain delegated responsibilities, the National Futures Association) has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank&#8217;s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. The CFTC&#8217;s comprehensive and significant regulations are intended to (i) address systemic risk issues, (ii) bring greater transparency to the derivatives and foreign exchange markets, (iii) provide enhanced disclosures and protections to customers and (iv) promote market integrity. Among other things, these regulations (i) require that, absent certain specified exemptions, most standardized swaps be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house and be traded on a centralized exchange or swap execution facility; (ii) subject PNC Bank to capital requirements in excess of historical practice; (iii) subject PNC Bank to comprehensive recordkeeping, regulatory reporting and real-time public reporting requirements; (iv) subject PNC Bank to various business conduct requirements, including the provision of daily marks to counterparties and disclosing to counterparties (pre-execution) the material risks, material incentives, and any conflicts of interest associated with their swap; (v) impose special duties on PNC Bank when transacting a swap with a &#8220;special entity&#8221; (e.g., governmental agency (federal, state or local) or political subdivision thereof, pension plan or endowment); and (vi) impose margin requirements on certain swaps that are not centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house. 

The regulations and requirements applicable to PNC Bank, as a provisionally registered CFTC swap dealer, have and will continue to impose compliance burdens on PNC Bank and introduce additional legal risks (including as a result of applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). In addition, failure to comply with the &#8220;pay-to-play&#8221; regulations that govern our swap and municipal securities businesses could result in limitations on PNC Bank&#8217;s ability to conduct swap and municipal securities business with state or local governments and their authorities. 

Regulations of Other Agencies 

In addition to regulations issued by the federal banking, securities and derivatives regulators, we also are subject to regulations issued by other federal agencies with respect to certain financial products and services we offer. For example, certain of our fiduciary, brokerage and investment management activities are subject to regulations issued by the Department of Labor under ERISA and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and certain of our student lending and servicing activities are subject to regulation by the Department of Education. 

Competition 

We are subject to intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions and non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. 

PNC Bank competes for deposits and/or loans with: 

&#8226; Other commercial banks, 

&#8226; Savings banks, 

&#8226; Credit unions, 

&#8226; Consumer finance companies, 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 13 

&#8226; Leasing companies, 

&#8226; Other non-bank lenders, 

&#8226; Financial technology companies, 

&#8226; Treasury management service companies, 

&#8226; Insurance companies, and 

&#8226; Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds. 

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with: 

&#8226; Investment management firms, 

&#8226; Large banks and other financial institutions, 

&#8226; Brokerage firms, 

&#8226; Financial technology companies, 

&#8226; Mutual fund complexes, and 

&#8226; Insurance companies. 

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with: 

&#8226; Commercial banks, 

&#8226; Investment banking firms, 

&#8226; Collateralized loan obligation managers, 

&#8226; Hedge funds, 

&#8226; Mutual fund complexes, 

&#8226; Merchant banks, 

&#8226; Insurance companies, 

&#8226; Private equity firms, and 

&#8226; Other investment vehicles. 

Competition is based on a number of factors including pricing, product structure, the range of products and services offered and the quality of customer service. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for deposits and investments. Competitors may seek to compete with us through traditional channels such as physical locations or through digital channels such as the internet or mobile applications. We include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Human Capital 

Employees totaled 51,257 at December 31, 2020. This total included 49,549 full-time and 1,708 part-time employees, of which 27,621 full-time and 1,611 part-time employees were employed in our Retail Banking business. 

Part of PNC&#8217;s ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and retain and develop our existing employees. In support of our employees, our strategic human capital goals include: 

&#8226; Advancing PNC&#8217;s talent-focused culture by developing strong leaders who exemplify our Leadership Standards, a set of standards designed to hold managers accountable for intentional inclusion, living our Corporate Values, enabling change, achieving results and developing the best talent and providing them with the tools and insights to effectively manage our people. 

&#8226; Focusing on the development and retention of diverse, high performing talent and providing employees with opportunities for professional growth, career mobility and health and financial wellness. 

&#8226; Supporting a strong, ethical culture anchored in our Corporate Values and doing the right thing for our employees, customers and shareholders. 

&#8226; Continuing to focus on improving workforce diversity and creating an equitable and inclusive work place. 

In managing our employees, we focus on these key factors: 

&#8226; Recruiting, developing and retaining talent . We believe recruiting, developing and retaining talent starts with our leaders and we measure our managers against our Leadership Standards. Our talent acquisition priority is to invest in the development of our internal talent and to provide career advancement opportunities to our employees. We measure how many open requisitions we fill with internal candidates, participation in early career development programs and turnover. At our first-level and above career bands we fill approximately 62% of our open requisitions with internal candidates, which has a direct impact on our ability to retain and develop our people. In addition, we hire approximately 500 interns and 500 full-time development program associates each year from our 11 early career development programs that support each of our lines of business and support areas. 

14 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K 

&#8226; Diversity, equity and inclusion . We focus on attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce that reflects and is equipped to meet the needs of our diverse customer base. We measure representation of LGBTQ+, people with disabilities, veterans, women and across all races and certain ethnicities as self-disclosed by our employees. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 59% of PNC&#8217;s workforce and 50% of PNC&#8217;s employees in managerial roles were women. People of color represented approximately 29% of PNC&#8217;s workforce, including 22% of our employees in managerial roles, as of December 31, 2020. 

&#8226; Total rewards . We design our compensation and benefits programs to focus on three key aspects of employee well-being: health, money and quality of life. These programs include competitive base salaries and, depending on eligibility, cash incentive or stock-based award opportunities, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a 401(k) Plan with employer match, a pension plan, healthcare, life insurance and disability benefits, health savings and dependent care flexible spending accounts, paid time off, paid maternity and parental leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, a robust wellness program with incentives, adoption assistance, employee assistance programs, educational assistance and on-site health care and child care services, among others. Additionally, we conduct pay equity analyses to determine if employees are being compensated fairly and consistently across roles. 

&#8226; Employee engagement . Twice a year, PNC conducts employee surveys to measure employee engagement because we believe that engaged employees have lower attrition rates and improved customer outcomes. 

PNC continues to recognize the impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic has had and will likely continue to have on our Human Capital. For more information on COVID-19 related impacts to our Human Capital, see the "Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic" section of this Item 1. 

SEC Reports and Corporate Governance Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. 

The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005. 

We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, or via e-mail to investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically. 

Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance, including our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (as amended from time to time), is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future waivers from a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics covering any of our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address. 

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board&#8217;s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to our Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at The Tower at PNC Plaza, 300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2401. Copies will be provided without charge. 

Internet Information 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.&#8217;s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under &#8220;About Us &#8211; Investor Relations.&#8221; We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating to the public information that may be relevant to investors. 

We generally post the following under &#8220;About Us &#8211; Investor Relations&#8221; shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases and supplemental financial information, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. In some 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#8211; 2020 Form 10-K &#160; 15 

cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events several days prior to the call or event. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and non-GAAP financial information, and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we include non-GAAP financial information. Such GAAP reconciliations may be in materials for the applicable presentation, in materials for prior presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports. 

When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC instead of using a press release or a filing with the SEC for first disclosure of the information. In some circumstances, the information may be relevant to investors but directed at customers, in which case it may be accessed directly through the home page rather than &#8220;About Us - Investor Relations.&#8221; 

We are required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios under supervisory and PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios, as well as information concerning our capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. We are also required to make certain additional regulatory capital-related public disclosures about our capital structure, risk exposures, risk assessment processes, risk-weighted assets and overall capital adequacy, including market risk-related disclosures, under the regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Similarly, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s rules require quantitative and qualitative disclosures about our LCR and, beginning in 2023, our NSFR. Under these regulations, we may satisfy these requirements through postings on our website, and we have done so and expect to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC. 

Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings with the SEC includes information relating to our corporate governance and annual communications from our chairman to shareholders. 

Where we have included internet addresses in this Report, such as our internet address and the internet address of the SEC, we have included those internet addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof. 

