                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Streets of San Francisco Empty as 7 Million Are Ordered to Stay Home ................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          StreetsofSanFranciscoEmptyas7MillionAreOrderedtoStayHome                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Foreign Desk; SECTA                                                     
          Streets of San Francisco Empty as 7 Million Are Ordered to Stay Home    
          By Thomas Fuller, Jack Nicas and Kate Conger                            
          1,420 words                                                             
          18 March 2020                                                           
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          12                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          On Day 1 of a vast experiment to limit the spread of the coronavirus, the distinction between essential and
          nonessential was blurred.                                               
          SAN FRANCISCO -- The double-length buses that snake through downtown San Francisco past the offices
          of Google and Facebook were empty. The teller at a Citibank in the city had seen three customers all
          morning, and the manager of a deserted sandwich shop a few blocks away decided to shut down for the rest
          of the week after selling only a handful of bagels.                     
          The most ambitious experiment in America to stop the spread of the coronavirus -- shelter-in-place orders for
          almost every resident -- was underway for seven million people living around the San Francisco Bay on
          Tuesday.                                                                
          Silicon Valley was a sea of nearly empty office parking lots. Therapy and yoga classes continued -- but
          online.                                                                 
          Across the notoriously congested Bay Area, traffic flowed like it was 3 a.m.
                                                                                  
          ''Sunday has more people than this,'' said Omar Tapea, who was closing down the sandwich shop in San
          Francisco for lack of customers.                                        
          Seven counties on Monday ordered that people stay inside -- and leave their homes only to ''obtain or
          perform vital services.'' Health officers described it as a radical but necessary step to save lives. With more
          than 200 confirmed infections and five deaths attributed to the coronavirus in Silicon Valley alone, officials
          say what has been a major hot spot for the disease is worsening quickly.
          ''This is moving so fast,'' Sara Cody, the health officer for Santa Clara County said Monday when announcing
          the measures. ''We needed to take very, very swift action.''            
          [Sign up for California Today , our daily newsletter from the Golden State.]
                                                                                  
          As other parts of the country contemplate similar measures, the shelter-in-place order in the Bay Area is
          testing the willingness of a go-it-alone society to curb personal behavior for the greater good of the
          community, especially older people and those vulnerable to severe disease because of medical conditions.
          It is also an effort that does not come without huge costs for the tens thousands of people whose jobs in the
          Bay Area rely on people patronizing restaurants, taking taxis, staying in hotels or appreciating art and music.
          At the heart of the order is the difference between essential and nonessential, a distinction that seemed open
          to interpretation.                                                      
                                                                                  
          A store selling house paints in Santa Clara, in Silicon Valley, was open, but a nearby shoe store was closed.
          In Oakland on Tuesday a few joggers with their dogs ran along the banks of Lake Merritt.
          In San Francisco, construction workers installed partition walls on skyscrapers. Starbucks baristas stood
          ready to serve the rare customer. Traffic police officers pasted parking tickets onto windshields. Late on
          Tuesday, City Hall reversed an earlier decision by declaring that marijuana dispensaries were considered
          essential and could remain open.                                        
          Some people who went to work said, essential or nonessential, they would not survive without the income.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In the shadow of San Francisco's tallest building, Ricardo Valencia trimmed back the branches of sidewalk
          trees.                                                                  
          ''The government says stay at home,'' Mr. Valencia said. ''But who is going to pay the rent?''
                                                                                  
          Juan Carrillo, the owner of a taco truck who was fueling in Richmond, across the Bay from San Francisco,
          said he would stay open until someone ordered him to stop.              
          ''This is what I do for a living. If we close down for two, three weeks, it's going to be a problem,'' Mr. Carrillo
          said. His employees, he said, have enough to survive ''day by day.''    
          And across the Bay Area there were those who had nowhere else to go: more than 30,000 homeless people
          live in the counties affected by the orders.                            
                                                                                  
          It was left up to the counties and cities to decide what was essential and in a modern society, it turns out, that
          can be a lot.                                                           
          Mike Callagy, the county manager for San Mateo, one of the jurisdictions carrying out the order, went down a
          partial list of what was staying open: child protective services, the sheriff's offices, the jails, sewer
          maintenance crews and homeless services.                                
          Health care outlets, pharmacies, gas stations and grocery stores are allowed to remain open and receive
          customers, according to guidance by the city of San Francisco. Also exempted: farmers' markets, car repair
          shops, hardware stores, dry cleaners and companies that provide payroll or security.
          The emptying of cities did not come all at once. As the coronavirus spread into Silicon Valley, a flurry of
          memos from technology companies allowed their employees to work from home.
                                                                                  
          ''Every morning there have been fewer people than the day before,'' said Andrew Whyman, a retired
          psychiatrist who was returning from a pharmacy Tuesday morning clutching a pack of toilet paper, the rare
          commodity that his wife, Barbara, had procured by reserving it early by phone.
          ''I think we are near rock bottom,'' Dr. Whyman said, scanning the scant foot traffic on the sidewalk. ''This is
          the middle of the week in San Francisco!''                              
          On Monday evening, hours after the shelter-in-place order was announced, workers bid farewell to
          colleagues, often not knowing when or if they would see one another again.
                                                                                  
          A group of seven bartenders, baristas and cooks congregated outside The Hatch, a bar in downtown
          Oakland, Calif., commiserating after their last shifts for at least three weeks. Hours earlier, they were all told
          that they were out of jobs indefinitely and to file for unemployment.   
          ''If people are afraid to go out, then we don't have a job,'' said Garrett Hallstrom, a sous chef at Beauty's
          Bagel Shop in Oakland.                                                  
          There were mixed emotions in the group: The forced time at home was a chance to catch up on long-delayed
          projects and hobbies, write short stories, play Dungeons & Dragons -- to name a few of the ideas mentioned.
                                                                                  
          But there was also a fear of loneliness. Jess Rankin, the lead barista at Beauty's Bagel Shop, said there were
          already plans afoot to stay in touch.                                   
          Beauty's two owners told the staff of roughly 50 people that they could take home perishable food and toilet
          paper on Monday, and that the establishment planned to host dinners for staff at the restaurant each Monday
          and Thursday while the shelter-in-place orders remained in effect.      
          ''I can't just stay in my house because somebody tells me that a disease might impact me,'' Mr. Hallstrom
          said. ''I don't have people in my life that I'm going to infect if I get this disease.''
          Ms. Rankin said she planned to mostly stay in, but she, too, would likely gather with friends and family in
          small groups during the lockdown.                                       
                                                                                  
          ''Three weeks is a long time,'' she said.                               
          Others said they would try their best to abide by the orders. Emily Straley, a civil engineer, said she was
          trying to isolate herself as much as possible to reduce her risk of contracting the virus or spreading it.
                                                                                  
          ''I would feel horrible if I found out I somehow spread it to someone else,'' she said.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          But as the shelter-in-place orders came into effect, Ms. Straley said she wondered how they would be
          enforced.                                                               
          ''Having the police enforce something so vague makes me really nervous,'' she said. ''Are they going to tell
          people to go home? Are they arresting people or writing tickets? I'm really confused about that.''
          Sam Liccardo , the mayor of San Jose, the largest city affected by the shelter-in-place orders, said cities were
          still scrambling to interpret what kind of gatherings would be allowed and which would be shut down.
                                                                                  
          ''There would be no reason to enforce the order except for some egregious green beer St. Patrick's Day party
          that 2,000 of my Irish family members might put on,'' Mr. Liccardo said.
          ''It's a mandate of common sense,'' he said. ''We need everyone to recognize that it's in our collective best
          interest to stay home for all but the most essential of activities.''   
          Thomas Fuller reported from San Francisco and Jack Nicas and Kate Conger from Oakland, Calif. Joe Purtell
          contributed reporting from Richmond, Calif., and Santa Clara, Calif.    
                                                                                  
          Emily Straley at home in Oakland. Only those who ''obtain or perform vital services'' can leave.
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)                           
          Document NYTF000020200318eg3i0003e                                      
          