                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lenders Tighten Approval Standards....................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LendersTightenApprovalStandards                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lenders Tighten Approval Standards                                      
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Peter Rudegeair                              
          999 words                                                               
          30 March 2020                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Banks and financial-technology firms are starting to toughen approval standards for new loans to consumers
          and small businesses.                                                   
          Large U.S. lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Capital One Financial Corp.
          and Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc. are among the companies reviewing and revising certain
          lending criteria, according to people familiar with the matter. Planned moves include approving fewer
          consumers with lower credit scores, asking for more income documentation and placing lower spending limits
          on new credit cards.                                                    
          American Express Co. has scaled back financing offers to small businesses, according to people familiar with
          the matter. Fintech lenders Square Inc. and On Deck Capital Inc. said this week they would do the same.
          About half a dozen lenders that have found borrowers through Fundera Inc., an online marketplace for
          small-business loans, have paused new extensions of credit, said Fundera CEO Jared Hecht. "Lenders have
          zero idea how to assess risk in this environment," Mr. Hecht said. "There is no model that can predict today if
          I lend $1, will I get paid back?"                                       
          Lenders are concerned that rising unemployment and a potential recession will send loan defaults soaring.
          The moves suggest at best a pause and at worst an end to six-plus years of a bull run in credit, where
          financial firms have been eager to lend and underwriting standards for credit cards, auto loans and personal
          loans have been relatively loose.                                       
          Lenders are scrutinizing applications for credit cards and personal loans in particular because consumers
          often turn to them when they are in a bind. They are usually unsecured, which means lenders have little
          recourse if a borrower defaults, and they can be the first loans people stop paying when money is tight.
          Many lenders said they would work with existing borrowers who ask for help. Some lenders are increasing
          card spending limits or delaying due dates on loans.                    
          But lenders are reluctant to take on additional risk from new customers.
                                                                                  
          "Even people who applied [for credit] in the last two weeks are more vulnerable [now] than when they
          applied," said Brian Riley, director of credit advisory services at Mercator Advisory Group.
          Loan solicitations by email have dropped for credit cards and personal loans, according to market-research
          firm Competiscan. AmEx, Bank of America and JPMorgan have sent almost no card solicitations in more than
          a week.                                                                 
          The changes could be most painful for low-wage workers such as wait staff and hotel employees uncertain
          when their next paycheck will arrive. Some lenders say they have noticed consumers applying for credit at
          several financial institutions at around the same time, a sign consumers are reaching for credit lifelines while
          they can still get them.                                                
          To make matters worse, many Americans were overstretched before the pandemic, tapping credit cards, auto
          loans and student loans as costs soared over the past decade but incomes largely failed to keep pace.
                                                                                  
          LendingClub Corp., an online lender that is one of the largest providers of personal loans, said last week it
          would approve fewer loans from first-time applicants, require more verification of income and employment
          status, and reduce approval rates to "higher-risk borrower populations."
          "Like many other businesses during this period, we are focused on retaining our best customers," the
          company said in a regulatory filing this month.                         
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Small-business lenders also are getting stingier with credit. On Deck recently stopped making new loans to
          movie theaters, hotels and nightclubs. It also made other changes to "significantly tighten underwriting
          standards," the company said in a regulatory filing last week.          
          On Deck informed LD3 Inc., an auto-transport business in Berthoud, Colo., last week, that its $35,000 line of
          credit with a 24.9% annual percentage rate had been suspended, said co-owner Debbie Coyle. LD3 had
          drawn on that line intermittently since 2017, letting On Deck recoup what it was owed from LD3's checking
          account every week, and had paid off all outstanding balances by early February.
          On Deck asked LD3 on March 20 to submit three months of bank statements and a screenshot of its
          business transactions over the previous few weeks if it wanted On Deck to consider reopening the credit line,
          according to emails reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. On Deck told LD3 it had chosen to "mitigate risk
          exposure" to businesses that had little or no activity on their credit lines in the previous 30 days.
          "The thing that's frustrating to me is the lack of support of small businesses that are hurting right now," said
          Ms. Coyle, 55 years old. "The whole point of having a credit line is to be able to use it when you need it."
          Ms. Coyle hasn't submitted the extra documents to On Deck and said LD3 is weighing other options. Until the
          effects of the coronavirus on its business were clearer and the company had a better idea how the federal
          government would be aiding small businesses, LD3 didn't want to explore additional loans or lenders.
          On Deck said it placed a "temporary hold" on LD3's credit line "in accordance with our disaster management
          procedures." "By submitting updated financial information, this hold can be removed, and we have discussed
          this with the customer who indicated they have no need for additional credit at this time," it said.
                                                                                  
          Square Capital, the lending arm of the payments processor run by Jack Dorsey, made loan offers to some
          small-business customers earlier this month but then didn't fund them when customers tried to activate them
          in recent days.                                                         
          A Square Capital spokeswoman said loan offers are expiring sooner in light of more recent data the lender
          gleans from processing customers' payments.                             
          At AmEx, many salespeople tasked with calling small businesses to offer cards have been told to stand
          down, according to people familiar with the matter. The company also has reduced its number of loan offers
          to small businesses.                                                    
          Document J000000020200330eg3u0008k                                      
                                                                                  
          