 Item 1. Business 

General 

First Citizens BancShares, Inc. (the &#8220;Parent Company&#8221; and when including all of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, &#8220;BancShares,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on August 7, 1986, to become the holding company of First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company (&#8220;FCB&#8221;), its banking subsidiary. FCB opened in 1898 as the Bank of Smithfield in Smithfield, North Carolina, and later changed its name to First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company. 

BancShares has expanded through de novo branching and acquisitions and as of December 31, 2023, operates a network of more than 600 branches and offices in 30 states, predominantly located in the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Western United States, providing a broad range of financial services to individuals, businesses and professionals. At December 31, 2023, BancShares had total consolidated assets of $213.76 billion. 

Throughout its history, the operations of BancShares have been significantly influenced by descendants of Robert P. Holding, who came to control FCB during the 1920s. Robert P. Holding&#8217;s children and grandchildren have served as members of the Board of Directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;) of BancShares and of the Board of Directors of FCB (collectively with the Board of BancShares, the &#8220;Boards&#8221;), as chief executive officers and in other executive management positions and, since BancShares&#8217; formation in 1986, have remained stockholders owning a large percentage of its common stock. 

The Chairman of the Boards and Chief Executive Officer, Frank B. Holding, Jr., is the grandson of Robert P. Holding. Hope Holding Bryant, Vice Chairwoman of the Boards, is Robert P. Holding&#8217;s granddaughter. Peter M. Bristow, President and member of the Boards, is the brother-in-law of Frank B. Holding, Jr. and Hope Holding Bryant. 

BancShares provides financial services for a wide range of consumer and commercial clients. This includes retail and mortgage banking, wealth management, small and middle market banking, factoring and leasing. BancShares provides commercial factoring, receivables management and secured financing services to businesses (generally manufacturers or importers of goods) that operate in various industries, including apparel, textile, furniture, home furnishings and consumer electronics. BancShares also provides deposit, cash management and lending to homeowner associations and property management companies. In addition, BancShares owns a fleet of railcars and locomotives that are leased to railroads and shippers. See Business Segments below for more information on markets we serve and products and services we offer. 

In addition to our banking operations, we provide various investment products and services through FCB&#8217;s wholly owned subsidiaries, including First Citizens Investor Services, Inc. (&#8220;FCIS&#8221;) and First Citizens Asset Management, Inc. (&#8220;FCAM&#8221;), and a non-bank subsidiary First Citizens Capital Securities, LLC (&#8220;FCCS&#8221;). As a registered broker-dealer, FCIS provides a full range of investment products, including annuities, brokerage services and third-party mutual funds. As registered investment advisors, FCIS and FCAM provide investment management services and advice. FCCS is a broker dealer that also provides underwriting and private placement services. 

The SVBB Acquisition (as defined and described below) expanded our client base to serve private equity and venture capital clients and also complimented our existing wealth management business by adding enhanced digital capabilities. The SVBB Acquisition further diversified our loan portfolio and business mix, particularly across technology and life sciences and healthcare industries, and wealth clients as further discussed in the &#8220;Business Segments&#8221; section below. Our loan classes, including those acquired in the SVBB Acquisition, are described in Note 1&#8212;Significant Accounting Policies and Basis of Presentation of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data. 

BancShares delivers products and services to its customers through an extensive branch network and additionally operates a nationwide digital bank. Services offered at most branches include accepting deposits, cashing checks and providing for consumer and commercial cash needs. Consumer and business customers may also conduct banking transactions through various digital channels. 

Statistical information regarding our business activities is found in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Business Combinations 

In addition to organically growing our business, BancShares has historically pursued growth through strategic mergers and acquisitions to enhance organizational value, strengthen its presence in existing markets, as well as expand its footprint in new markets. 

On March 27, 2023 (the &#8220;SVBB Acquisition Date&#8221;), FCB acquired substantially all loans and certain other assets and assumed all customer deposits and certain other liabilities, of Silicon Valley Bridge Bank, N.A. (&#8220;SVBB&#8221;) from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;) pursuant to the terms of a purchase and assumption agreement (the &#8220;SVBB Purchase Agreement&#8221;) by and among FCB, the FDIC, and the FDIC, as receiver of SVBB (the &#8220;SVBB Acquisition&#8221;). SVBB was established following the closure of the former Silicon Valley Bank. BancShares maintains the Silicon Valley Bank brand as Silicon Valley Bank, a division of FCB. 

On January 3, 2022 (the &#8220;CIT Merger Date&#8221;), BancShares completed its merger (the &#8220;CIT Merger&#8221;) with CIT Group Inc. (&#8220;CIT&#8221;) and its subsidiary CIT Bank, N.A., a national banking association (&#8220;CIT Bank&#8221;). BancShares maintains the CIT brand as CIT Group, a division of FCB. 

The SVBB Acquisition and CIT Merger are described further in the &#8220;Business Combinations&#8221; section of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2&#8212;Business Combinations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Business Segments 

As of December 31, 2022, BancShares managed its business and reported its financial results in General Banking, Commercial Banking, and Rail segments. All other financial information is included in the &#8220;Corporate&#8221; component of segment disclosures in this 10-K. In conjunction with the SVBB Acquisition, BancShares added a new business segment, which is referred to as the Silicon Valley Banking (&#8220;SVB&#8221;) segment. Prior periods were not impacted by this update. 

Reportable segments are discussed further in the &#8220;Results by Business Segments&#8221; section of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 23&#8212;Business Segment Information. 

##TABLE_START SEGMENT MARKETS AND SERVICES General Banking &#8226; Delivers services to individuals and businesses through an extensive branch network and various digital channels, including a nationwide digital bank, and offers a full suite of deposit products, loans (primarily business/commercial loans and residential mortgages), and various fee-based services. 

&#8226; Provides a variety of wealth management products and services to individuals and institutional clients, including brokerage, investment advisory, and trust services. 

&#8226; Provides deposit, cash management and lending to homeowner associations and property management companies. 

Commercial Banking &#8226; Provides lending, leasing, capital markets and other financial and advisory services, primarily to small and middle-market companies across a variety of industries. 

&#8226; Provides asset-based lending, factoring, receivables management and secured financing services. 

Silicon Valley Banking &#8226; Provides products and services to commercial clients in key innovation markets, such as healthcare and technology industries, as well as private equity and venture capital firms. 

&#8226; Provides private banking and wealth management as well as a range of personal financial solutions for consumers, including private equity and venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support, and premium wine clients. 

&#8226; Offers a full suite of deposit products and positive pay services through online and mobile banking platforms, as well as at branch locations. Provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit treasury management, foreign exchange, trade finance and other services including capital call lines of credit. 

Rail &#8226; Provides equipment leasing and secured financing to railroads and shippers. 

Corporate (1) 

&#8226; Earning assets primarily include investment securities and interest-earning deposits at banks. 

&#8226; Corporate includes interest income on investment securities and interest-earning deposits at banks; interest expense for corporate funding, including brokered deposits; funds transfer pricing allocations; gains or losses on sales of investment securities; fair value adjustments on marketable equity securities; income from bank-owned life insurance; portions of salaries and benefits expense; and acquisition-related expenses. Corporate also includes certain items related to accounting for business combinations, such as gains on acquisitions, day 2 provisions for credit losses, discount accretion income for acquired loans, and amortization of certain intangible assets. 

##TABLE_END (1) All other financial information not allocated to the segments are reported in &#8220;Corporate.&#8221; 

General Banking 

The General Banking segment delivers products and services to consumers and businesses through our extensive network of branches and various digital channels. We offer a full suite of deposit products, loans (primarily residential mortgages and business and commercial loans), cash management, wealth management, payment services, and treasury services. Our wealth management products and services to individuals and institutional clients include brokerage, investment advisory, and trust services. We offer conforming and jumbo residential mortgage loans throughout the United States which are primarily originated through branches and retail referrals, employee referrals, internet leads, direct marketing and a correspondent lending channel. The General Banking segment offers nationwide digital banking, which is largely comprised of our internet banking platform (the &#8220;Direct Bank&#8221;), that delivers deposit products to consumers. The General Banking segment also includes a community association bank channel that supports deposit, cash management, and lending to homeowner associations and property management companies. 

Revenue is generated from interest earned on loans and from fees for banking and advisory services. We primarily originate loans by utilizing our branch network and industry referrals, as well as direct digital marketing efforts. We derive our Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) loans through a network of SBA originators. We periodically purchase loans on a whole-loan basis. We also invest in community development that supports the construction of affordable housing in our communities in line with our Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) initiatives. 

Commercial Banking 

The Commercial Banking segment provides a range of lending, leasing, capital markets, asset management and other financial and advisory services, primarily to small and middle market companies in a wide range of industries including: energy; healthcare; tech media and telecom; asset-backed lending; capital finance; maritime; corporate banking; aerospace and defense; and sponsor finance. Loans offered are primarily senior secured loans collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, transportation equipment and/or intangibles, and are often used for working capital, plant expansion, acquisitions, or recapitalizations. These loans include revolving lines of credit and term loans and, depending on the nature of the collateral, may be referred to as collateral-backed loans, asset-based loans or cash flow loans. We provide senior secured loans to developers and other commercial real estate (&#8220;CRE&#8221;) professionals. Additionally, we provide small business loans and leases, including both capital and operating leases, through a highly automated credit approval, documentation and funding process. 

We provide factoring, receivable management, and secured financing to businesses that operate in several industries. These include: apparel, textile, furniture, home furnishings, and consumer electronics. Factoring entails the assumption of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable arising from the sale of goods from our factoring clients to their customers that have been factored (i.e., sold or assigned to the factor). Our factoring clients, which are generally manufacturers or importers of goods, are the counterparties on factoring, financing, or receivables purchasing agreements to sell trade receivables to us. Our factoring clients&#8217; customers, which are generally retailers, are the account debtors and obligors on trade accounts receivable that have been factored. 

Revenue is generated from: interest and fees on loans; rental income on operating lease equipment; fee income and other revenue from banking services and capital markets transactions; and commissions earned on factoring-related activities. We derive most of our commercial lending business through direct marketing to borrowers, lessees, manufacturers, vendors, and distributors. We also utilize referrals as a source for commercial lending business. We may periodically buy participations or syndications of loans and lines of credit and purchase loans on a whole-loan basis. 

Silicon Valley Banking 

The SVB segment offers products and services to commercial clients in key innovation markets, such as healthcare and technology industries, as well as to private equity and venture capital firms. The segment provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit, treasury management, foreign exchange, trade finance and other services including capital call lines of credit. In addition, the segment offers private banking and wealth management and provides a range of personal financial solutions for consumers. Private banking and wealth management clients consist of private equity and venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support and premium wine clients. The segment offers a customized suite of private banking services, including mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted and private stock loans, other secured and unsecured lending products and vineyard development loans, as well as planning-based financial strategies, wealth management, family office, financial planning, tax planning and trust services. 

Revenue is primarily generated from interest earned on loans, and fees and other revenue from lending activities and banking services. 

Deposit products include business and analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, multi-currency accounts, bank accounts, sweep accounts and positive pay services. Services are provided through online and mobile banking platforms, as well as branch locations. 

Rail 

The Rail segment offers customized leasing and financing solutions on a fleet of railcars and locomotives to railroads and shippers throughout North America. Railcar types include covered hopper cars used to ship grain and agricultural products, plastic pellets, sand, and cement; tank cars for energy products and chemicals; gondolas for coal, steel coil and mill service products; open-top hopper cars for coal and aggregates; boxcars for paper and auto parts; and centerbeams and flat cars for lumber. Revenue is generated primarily from rental income on operating lease equipment. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers, and the general market and economic climate. BancShares competes with national, regional and local financial services providers. In recent years, the ability of non-bank financial entities to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Non-bank financial service providers are not subject to the same significant regulatory restrictions as traditional commercial banks and, as such, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. More than ever, customers have the ability to select from a variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits and customer convenience. Our non-bank services compete with other insurance companies, investment firms and brokerage firms. 

Deposits (based on branch location) as of December 31, 2023, in North Carolina and South Carolina represented approximately 25.5%, and 7.8%, respectively, of total deposits. FCB&#8217;s deposit market share as of June 30, 2023 in North Carolina and South Carolina was 11.0% and 9.3%, respectively, which makes FCB the third largest bank in North Carolina and the fourth largest bank in South Carolina based on deposit market share according to the FDIC Deposit Market Share Report. The two banks larger than FCB based on deposits in both North Carolina and South Carolina were Bank of America and Truist Bank. The additional bank larger than FCB based on deposits in South Carolina was Wells Fargo. These banks collectively held 60.8% and 41.9% of North Carolina and South Carolina deposits, respectively. 

Acquisitions contributed to deposit growth in 2023 and 2022. The SVBB Acquisition increased deposits by $38.48 billion as of December 31, 2023, and the CIT Merger increased deposits by approximately $39.43 billion at the CIT Merger Date, primarily related to the Direct Bank. 

As of December 31, 2023, FCB had more than 600 total domestic branches and offices, which included 217 in North Carolina, 124 in South Carolina and 92 in California. 

Geographic Locations 

As of December 31, 2023, BancShares operated branches in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Nevada, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. 

See Concentration Risk section in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information on our commercial and consumer loan concentrations by state. 

Human Capital 

As of December 31, 2023, BancShares employed approximately 15,715 full-time staff and approximately 306 part-time staff for a total of 16,021 employees. Women and ethnically diverse associates make up approximately 56% and 37% of total employees, respectively. 

Our ability to attract, retain and develop associates who align with our purpose is key to our success. Our human capital strategy is predicated on ensuring the organization has the right people with the right skills in the right places at the right time for the right cost to fulfill our strategic objectives. Our human resources team works to formalize the process of defining and deploying the mission-critical talent needed to align our program with our financial and strategic goals and objectives. Our key human capital initiatives include scaling and developing talent, enhancing performance/leadership management and coaching, and supporting diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. We seek individuals with diverse backgrounds that reflect the markets we serve because we understand our differences contribute to a diversity of thought that enhances associate and customer relationships and drives innovation of our products and services. 

The retention and integration of key legacy Silicon Valley Bank and CIT employees have also been significant initiatives. The Board monitors these initiatives and associated risks primarily through its Risk Committee. 

To assist with these goals, we monitor and evaluate various metrics, specifically around attraction, retention and development of talent. For example, we monitor annual voluntary turnover as compared to industry benchmarks to confirm that our compensation and benefits structures, and our commitment to career development, are successful in a competitive talent market. Our annual voluntary turnover, minus acquisition headcount, is typically lower than commonly used industry benchmarks. Aside from the expected effects from acquisition activity, voluntary turnover remained below the financial services industry benchmark through December 2023. We believe this reflects our strong corporate culture, competitive compensation and benefits structure, and commitment to career development. 

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 

We consider our associates vital to our long-term success. We believe it&#8217;s important that associates feel included, valued, respected and heard and that they have equal access to resources and opportunities enabling them to reach their full potential. We focus on building positive relationships across the bank by celebrating and learning about one another&#8217;s personal cultures and heritages and all the dimensions that make each of us unique. 

Our leadership is committed to embracing diversity, disavowing discrimination and making progress on our diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. To this end, our diversity, equity and inclusion team is focused on raising awareness of the importance of these actions in our workplace and identifying and promoting educational and engagement opportunities. We currently offer six business resource groups for associates at FCB: Asian &#38; Pacific Islanders, Black &#38; African Americans, Hispanic, LGBTQ+, Veterans &#38; Military and Women. These groups are provided guidance and support by a group of senior leaders representing diverse associates and organizations across FCB. We understand that formalized groups such as these play a key role in attracting and retaining diverse talent, as well as helping the bank meet key business objectives. 

Compensation and Benefits 

We strive to provide competitive compensation and benefits to our associates. We make talent attraction and retention a priority by offering, among other things, internal career mobility and a total rewards package that emphasizes a holistic approach to well-being and a thoughtful approach to performance management. Our competitive benefits offerings include a 401(k) plan with employer matching opportunities, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off and other employee assistance programs. 

Regulatory Considerations 

The Parent Company, FCB, and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221; or &#8220;FRB&#8221;), the FDIC, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks (&#8220;NCCOB&#8221;), and other regulatory authorities as &#8220;regulated entities.&#8221; FCB&#8217;s insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies. Various laws and regulations administered by these and other regulatory agencies affect BancShares&#8217; corporate practices, including the payment of dividends or other capital distributions, the incurrence of debt, and the acquisition of financial institutions and other companies. Laws and regulations also affect business practices, such as the payment of interest on deposits, the charging of interest on loans, the types of business conducted and the location of offices. In addition, numerous statutes and regulations also apply to and restrict the activities of BancShares, including limitations on the ability to pay dividends, capital requirements, reserve requirements, deposit insurance requirements and restrictions on transactions with related persons and entities controlled by related persons. The impact of these statutes and regulations is discussed below and in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

In 2022 and 2023, BancShares completed two acquisitions that resulted in the organization being subject to heightened supervision and enhanced regulatory standards as a large banking organization with over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including certain enhanced prudential standards and oversight under the applicable transition provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) by the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC with respect to FCB. Based on asset size, BancShares is required to establish and maintain an enhanced enterprise risk management program, governance standards, and compliance system that are commensurate with its asset size, risk profile, complexity, and activities. BancShares is continuing to develop its compliance and enterprise risk management program to integrate the entities acquired in connection with the CIT Merger and SVBB Acquisition. BancShares expects any future bank mergers and acquisitions may be impacted in the near term by the enhanced regulatory review. Additionally, in light of the bank failures in early 2023, the bank regulators are re-evaluating regulatory requirements and standards applicable to banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, and have proposed amendments to several key regulations and requirements for such organizations. As BancShares continues to grow, it may cross additional risk-based asset thresholds, subjecting it to additional regulatory requirements. 

Dodd-Frank Act and the Economic Growth Act . The Dodd-Frank Act, as modified by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Economic Growth Act&#8221;), significantly restructured the financial services regulatory environment; imposed significant regulatory and compliance changes on the financial services industry; increased capital, leverage and liquidity requirements for banking organizations; and expanded the scope of oversight responsibility of certain federal agencies through the creation of new oversight bodies. Certain of the significant requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, as modified by the Economic Growth Act, are listed below with information regarding how they apply to BancShares. 

&#8226; Asset Threshold for Applicability of Dodd-Frank Act Enhanced Prudential Standards and Enhanced Supervision. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated the applicability of enhanced prudential standards and supervision of bank holding companies (&#8220;BHCs&#8221;) with $50 billion or more in assets. The Economic Growth Act raised the asset threshold for mandatory applicability of enhanced prudential standards to $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Under the Economic Growth Act, the FRB has the discretion to apply any enhanced prudential standards to banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets on a tailored basis, based on asset size and other risk-based factors, and the FRB, the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;) adopted a framework for tailoring the applicability of enhanced prudential standards for banking organizations with $100 billion or more in assets (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). The Tailoring Rules are further discussed below. BancShares first became subject to the enhanced prudential standards in 2022, and BancShares is currently treated as a Category IV banking organization under the Tailoring Rules, as it has over $100 billion in total assets, but less than $250 billion in assets and less than $75 billion in nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, off-balance sheet exposure, and cross-jurisdictional activities. 

&#8226; Capital Planning and Stress Testing. The Dodd-Frank Act, as modified by the Economic Growth Act, mandates company-run stress tests be performed by banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets. BancShares will not be subject to Dodd-Frank Act company-run stress testing (&#8220;DFAST&#8221;) until such time that it has $250 billion or more in total assets. Additionally, BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to supervisory stress testing by the FRB under the agency&#8217;s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (&#8220;CCAR&#8221;) process. Based on its asset size and status as a Category IV institution, BancShares is subject to biennial supervisory stress testing by the Federal Reserve under the CCAR process in accordance with the applicable transition provisions. BancShares is also required to develop, maintain, and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. BancShares will submit a capital plan in 2024 and has made substantial progress in developing policies, programs, and systems designed to comply with capital planning and stress testing requirements. 

&#8226; Enhanced Capital Requirements. On July 27, 2023, the federal banking agencies released a proposed rule to implement the final components of the capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, known as the Basel III-end game standards, which are aimed at strengthening previous capital requirements for banking organizations that were adopted under the Basel III standards. The proposal would apply enhanced capital and liquidity requirements to banking organizations and their subsidiary banks with total assets of $100 billion or more, which would include BancShares and FCB. One of the changes under the proposal is replacing internal-models-based capital requirements for credit and operational risk currently included in Category I or II capital standards with new, risk-sensitive standardized requirements (the &#8220;expanded risk-based approach&#8221;) that would apply to all banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets. The proposal would maintain the capital rule&#8217;s dual-requirement structure and measure large banking organizations&#8217; minimum capital requirements at the higher of risk-weighted asset amounts as measured under the current standardized approach or the expanded risk-based approach. The proposal would also eliminate the accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) opt-out for Category III and IV banking organizations and require such banking organizations to follow the rules for capital deductions and minority interests currently applicable to Category I and II banking organizations, and thereby require all banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets to calculate regulatory capital in a consistent manner, including by reflecting unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities in regulatory capital to better reflect actual loss-absorbing capacity. Additionally, the proposal would require all banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets to meet a supplementary leverage ratio requirement and apply a countercyclical capital buffer, if activated. The proposal includes a July 1, 2025 effective date, with certain aspects subject to a three-year phase-in period. We are in the process of evaluating the proposal and assessing its potential impact. 

&#8226; Resolution Planning. Under Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth Act, BHCs with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to develop and maintain resolution plans (commonly referred to as &#8220;Living Wills&#8221;) to support the rapid and orderly resolution of the banking organization under bankruptcy in the event of material financial distress or failure in a manner that would not have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States. The regulations promulgated by the FRB and FDIC currently only require banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets to submit Living Wills. Based on our asset size as of December 31, 2023, BancShares is not required to submit a resolution plan under the Living Wills requirement. However, FCB is required to submit a resolution plan (a &#8220;Resolution Plan&#8221;) under the FDIC&#8217;s Covered Insured Depository Institution rule (&#8220;CIDI Rule&#8221;). Under the CIDI Rule, depository institutions insured by the FDIC (&#8220;IDIs&#8221;) with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to periodically submit Resolution Plans that will enable the FDIC as receiver to resolve the bank in the event of its insolvency under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDI Act&#8221;) in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits in a timely manner, maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss realized by the creditors in the resolution. Resolution Plans under the CIDI Rule require a more detailed discussion of the strategy for resolving the bank under the FDI Act while the Living Will of a banking organization covers the rapid and orderly resolution of the parent company and nonbank entities within the banking organization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

&#8226; The Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule generally prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exemptions. The Volcker Rule continues to apply to BancShares, FCB, and their subsidiaries and affiliates that fit the definition of a &#8220;banking entity&#8221; under the implementing regulations. In connection with the SVBB Acquisition, BancShares acquired interests in a portfolio of private funds, which are held and managed in accordance with the Volcker Rule. BancShares has implemented a Volcker compliance program that is appropriate for its size and activities. 

&#8226; Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule . Creditors are required to comply with mortgage reform provisions prohibiting the origination of any residential mortgages that do not meet rigorous Qualified Mortgage (&#8220;QM&#8221;) standards or Ability-to-Repay (&#8220;ATR&#8221;) standards. All mortgage loans originated by FCB meet ATR standards and a substantial majority also meet QM standards. 

&#8226; Long-Term Debt Requirements . On August 29, 2023, the federal banking agencies proposed a rule that would require banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets to (1) issue and maintain outstanding a minimum amount of long-term debt that would be available to absorb losses in the event of failure, (2) establish &#8220;clean holding company&#8221; requirements for these holding companies (e.g., prohibition on engaging in certain activities at the holding company that could complicate its resolution), (3) apply a stringent capital treatment to large U.S. banking organizations&#8217; holdings of long-term debt issued by other large banking organizations, and (4) make certain technical amendments to the FRB&#8217;s rules related to total loss-absorbing capacity requirements for U.S. global systemically important banking organizations and intermediate holding companies of foreign banking organizations. Proposed long-term debt requirements would apply at the holding company and bank level for banks with $100 billion or more in consolidated assets. Covered holding companies and their subsidiary banks would be required to maintain a minimum amount of eligible long-term debt equal to the greater of 6 percent of risk weighted assets, 3.5 percent of average total consolidated assets, and for banks subject to the supplementary leverage ratio, 2.5 percent of total leverage exposure under the supplementary leverage ratio. Covered institutions would have to comply with the new requirements through a phased-in approach over a three-year period, during which they would need to meet 25% of their long-term requirements by one year after effectiveness of the rule, 50% after two years, and 100% after three years. The proposal would require that debt instruments issued to satisfy the minimum long-term debt requirement meet certain criteria to ensure that the debt instruments can readily absorb losses in resolution, and the proposal would apply a stringent capital treatment to large banking organizations&#8217; holdings of eligible long-term debt issued by other large banking organizations to discourage cross-holdings of long-term debt by other banking organizations. The proposal would allow banking organizations to receive credit for existing outstanding long-term debt that meets certain criteria. The comment period ended on November 30, 2023. We are in the process of evaluating proposal and assessing its potential impact, but we expect we will need to raise additional long-term debt to satisfy these requirements. 

&#8226; Updated Requirements for Brokered Deposits and Deposit Brokers; Limited Exception for Reciprocal Deposits. Section 29 of the FDI Act and the FDIC&#8217;s implementing regulations limit the ability of an IDI to accept brokered deposits unless the institution is well capitalized, or the IDI is adequately capitalized and obtains a waiver from the FDIC. IDIs that are less than well capitalized are not able to accept brokered deposits, and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates paid on deposits. IDIs that are well capitalized or adequately capitalized and meet certain other criteria are able to exempt from treatment as &#8220;brokered&#8221; deposits up to $5 billion or 20 percent of the institution&#8217;s total liabilities in reciprocal deposits (defined generally as deposits received by a depository institution through a deposit placement network with the same maturity and in the same aggregate amount as deposits placed by the depository institution in other network institutions). In addition, the FDIC amended its regulations governing &#8220;brokered deposits&#8221; to clarify and modernize this regulatory framework. 

First Citizens BancShares, Inc. 

General. As a BHC registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;), the Parent Company is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Parent Company is also a financial holding company (&#8220;FHC&#8221;). An FHC may engage in or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; or complementary to a financial activity that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally as long as the FHC continues to meet the eligible requirements for FHC status, including that the FHC and its subsidiary IDIs each remain &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed.&#8221; Activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, advising mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant banking, and any other activities determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury to be &#8220;financial in nature,&#8221; or &#8220;complementary&#8221; or &#8220;incidental&#8221; to such financial activity. The Parent Company is also registered under the bank holding company laws of North Carolina and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the NCCOB. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Enhanced Supervision . A BHC with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more is subject to enhanced prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by Economic Growth Act, with the requirements tailored based on risk-based factors identified by the federal banking agencies. Consistent with the authority of the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act, a BHC with $100 billion or more in assets, but less than $250 billion in assets is subject to certain enhanced prudential standards as implemented by the Tailoring Rules. Under the Tailoring Rules, banking organizations are grouped into four categories, based on asset size, off-balance sheet exposure, nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, and cross-jurisdictional activities. Category I banking organizations (i.e., U.S. Globally Systemically Important Banks) are subject to the most stringent enhanced prudential requirements, and Category IV banking organizations (i.e., between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets, and less than $75 billion in nonbank assets, off-balance sheet exposure, cross-jurisdictional activities, and weighted short-term wholesale funding) are subject to the least stringent requirements. 

Based on our asset size, we are required to comply with certain enhanced prudential standards applicable to Category IV banking organizations, subject to the applicable transition periods. BancShares has developed and is implementing policies, programs, and systems designed to meet the enhanced prudential standards applicable to the organization, including annual capital plan submissions and biennial supervisory stress testing by the Federal Reserve under CCAR, enhanced enterprise-wide risk management requirements, and enhanced liquidity management requirements, including liquidity stress tests and liquidity buffer requirements. In the event BancShares&#8217; assets grow to meet or exceed the thresholds for the applicability of certain enhanced prudential standards, even as a Category IV banking organization, BancShares will be subject to such enhanced prudential standards on a tailored basis. For example, if BancShares has $50 billion or more in weighted short-term wholesale funding, under the FRB&#8217;s regulations, it will be subject to the modified Liquidity Coverage Ratio (&#8220;LCR&#8221;) and Net Stable Funding Ratio (&#8220;NSFR&#8221;) requirements. In the event BancShares becomes a Category III banking organization, which would occur when BancShares exceeds $250 million in total consolidated assets or has $100 billion in total assets, and $75 billion or more in nonbank assets, off-balance sheet exposure, or weighted short-term wholesale funding, BancShares will be subject to full or reduced LCR and NSFR requirements, annual company-run capital stress testing, resolution planning requirements, annual supervisory capital stress testing under CCAR, additional risk-based capital requirements (countercyclical capital buffer once active), the supplementary leverage ratio, and additional liquidity reporting requirements. Additionally, the federal banking agencies have proposed new regulations and guidance that would impose heightened requirements on banking organizations with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including those related to long-term debt requirements, bank resolution planning (CIDI Rule), climate-related financial risk management, and enhanced capital and liquidity requirements (Basel III endgame). BancShares is evaluating the potential impact of such regulations and guidance on the organization, but it is expected that the additional requirements will increase its regulatory-related compliance costs. 

Permitted Activities . A BHC is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities the Federal Reserve determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, BHCs that qualify and elect to be FHCs and continue to meet the requirements as an FHC as discussed in the Status Requirements section below, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to such financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve). 

Acquisitions. The Parent Company is subject to various laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC must obtain approval from the Federal Reserve prior to directly or indirectly acquiring ownership or control of 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of another BHC or bank or prior to merging or consolidating with another BHC. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks, or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations' compliance with anti-money laundering (&#8220;AML&#8221;) laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

In July 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy that encouraged the federal banking agencies to review the current framework for merger oversight practices under the BHCA and the Bank Merger Act (the &#8220;BMA&#8221;). On March 25, 2022, the FDIC issued a request for information on the effectiveness of the existing framework for evaluating bank mergers and acquisitions under the FDI Act with particular focus on the increase in asset concentration among banking organizations with more than $100 billion in total assets. The Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC are currently working with the United States Department of Justice (&#8220;DOJ&#8221;) in developing updated guidelines for review of bank mergers and acquisitions. On December 18, 2023, the Federal Trade Commission and DOJ jointly issued the 2023 Merger Guidelines for the review of mergers and acquisitions under the federal antitrust laws. The 2023 Merger Guidelines represent a significant revision of the regulatory framework for merger enforcement and are designed to address business markets and practices in the modern economy, while also strengthening the agencies&#8217; oversight of mergers that may violate the federal antitrust laws. The 2023 Merger Guidelines do not apply to transactions subject to review under the the BMA. The DOJ&#8217;s 1995 Bank Merger Guidelines continue as the framework for competitive analysis of bank mergers pending release and adoption of new bank merger guidelines. 

On January 29, 2024, the OCC announced a proposed rule to eliminate expedited processing and use of streamlined application forms with respect to transactions subject to its review and approval under the BMA. Additionally, the proposed rule would codify an agency policy statement outlining general principles to be followed by the OCC staff when reviewing applications under the BMA. Such principles would, among other things, establish indicators of proposed transactions that generally are consistent with regulatory approval, as well as those that raise supervisory or regulatory concerns and therefore would require applicants to address or remediate specific areas of concern in order to secure regulatory approval. The OCC&#8217;s proposal suggests that generally there will be additional scrutiny of transactions under the BMA by the agency. The Federal Reserve and FDIC have not proposed a similar rulemaking, but the agencies may be impacted or influenced by the actions of the OCC. The OCC&#8217;s proposed rule is subject to a public comment period and the timing and prospects for the adoption by the OCC of a final rule are uncertain at this time. 

Risk Management . Banking organizations with $50 billion or more in total assets are subject to prescribed standards for the implementation of risk governance frameworks addressing credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, price risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, and reputation risks. On October 11, 2023, the FDIC issued a proposed rule and guidelines that would require all FDIC-supervised IDIs with total assets of $10 billion or more to adopt heightened corporate governance and risk management standards pursuant to which covered institutions would be required to develop and implement a comprehensive and independent risk management function and effective programs for internal controls, risk management, and audits. As a Category IV banking organization, BancShares is required to maintain an enterprise-wide risk management system, governance program, and compliance system commensurate with its size, risks, activities, and complexity. As noted above, BancShares completed the SVBB Acquisition in 2023. BancShares is enhancing its risk management and compliance program post-SVBB Acquisition. 

The federal banking agencies have in recent years increased their focus on banks&#8217; third-party risk management controls and practices. On June 6, 2023, the federal banking agencies adopted interagency guidance on risk management of third-party relationships. The guidance applies broadly to any business agreement between a banking organization and another entity, by contract or otherwise (including affiliated entities), and it requires banking organizations to analyze the risks associated with each third-party relationship and establish effective governance and risk management processes for all stages of a third-party relationship, including planning, due diligence and third-party selection, contract negotiation, ongoing monitoring, and termination. 

Status Requirements. To maintain FHC status, a FHC and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well-managed. A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be well capitalized if it satisfies the requirements for this status under applicable Federal Reserve capital requirements. A depository institution subsidiary is considered well managed if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination. Based on our asset size, we are among the group of banking organizations evaluated under the rating system for large financial institutions (&#8220;LFI&#8221;). Under the LFI rating system, the FRB assigns ratings based on three supervisory components: (i) capital planning and positions, (ii) liquidity risk management and positions, and (iii) governance and controls. The LFI rating system has a four-category, non-numeric rating scale with no single composite rating or scoring. The four rating categories are &#8220;Broadly Meets Expectations,&#8221; &#8220;Conditionally Meets Expectations,&#8221; &#8220;Deficient-1&#8221; and &#8220;Deficient-2.&#8221; A banking organization must receive at least &#8220;Conditionally Meets Expectations&#8221; for each of the component ratings to be considered &#8220;well managed.&#8221; If a FHC ceases to meet these capital and management requirements, the Federal Reserve may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities. 

Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on BHCs under the BHCA, including a minimum leverage ratio and minimum ratios of &#8220;qualifying&#8221; capital to risk-weighted assets. The metrics utilized to measure regulatory capital include the total, Tier 1, and common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratios (collectively, the &#8220;Risk-Based Capital Ratios&#8221;) and the Tier 1 leverage ratio (collectively, with the Risk-Based Capital Ratios, the &#8220;Regulatory Capital Ratios&#8221;). The capital conservation buffer associated with Basel III is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Additionally, federal banking agencies have developed prompt corrective action (&#8220;PCA&#8221;) well capitalized thresholds for Regulatory Capital Ratios. The following table includes the Basel III requirements and PCA well capitalized thresholds for the Regulatory Capital Ratios. The capital requirements for large banks are further tailored as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s stress testing under its CCAR process. Through the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve calculates a stress capital buffer (&#8220;SCB&#8221;) for each large banking organization. The SCB reflects losses under the severely adverse scenario of the CCAR supervisory stress tests. The Federal Reserve calculates a SCB as the greater of (i) the difference between the firm&#8217;s starting and minimum projected common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of dollar amount of the firm&#8217;s planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5 percent. The SCB calculated by the Federal Reserve replaces the static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer required under Basel III. 

##TABLE_START Basel III Minimums Basel III Conservation Buffers Basel III Requirements PCA Well Capitalized Thresholds Regulatory Capital Ratios Total risk-based capital 8.00 % 2.50 % 10.50 % 10.00 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 6.00 2.50 8.50 8.00 Common equity Tier 1 4.50 2.50 7.00 6.50 Tier 1 leverage 4.00 &#8212; 4.00 5.00 ##TABLE_END

Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements may result in certain actions by federal banking agencies that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of BancShares and constraints on capital distributions and discretionary executive compensation. As of December 31, 2023, the Regulatory Capital Ratios of BancShares exceeded the applicable Basel III requirements and the well capitalized thresholds as further addressed under &#8220;Stockholders&#8217; Equity and Capital Adequacy&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

BancShares will participate in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process in the first instance in 2024. During the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve will set BancShares&#8217; SCB requirement, which will replace the capital conservation buffer requirement for the organization. 

As noted above, the federal banking agencies issued a proposal to adopt the Basel III endgame standards, which would make several changes to the capital and liquidity rules applicable to BancShares and other banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Among the proposed changes, the federal banking agencies would eliminate the AOCI opt-out that is currently available for Category IV banking organizations, like BancShares, which allows for such eligible banking organizations to not recognize unrealized gains and losses in their available-for-sale securities portfolio. BancShares is currently evaluating the potential impact of the Basel III endgame proposal on the organization. 

Source of Strength . Under the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, the Parent Company is expected to commit resources to support FCB, including times when the Parent Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans made by a BHC to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a BHC&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal banking agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness . The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. As noted above, BancShares is a Category IV banking organization and is subject to enhanced prudential standards and enhanced supervision under the Tailoring Rules subject to the applicable transition periods. 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments . The Parent Company is a legal entity, separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Revenues of the Parent Company primarily result from dividends received from FCB. There are various legal limitations applicable to the payment of dividends by FCB to the Parent Company and capital distributions by the Parent Company. Capital distributions by FCB or the Parent Company may be suspended or limited by bank regulatory agencies for various reasons, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory guidelines. Bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit FCB or the Parent Company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their business. Capital distributions, depending on the financial condition of FCB or the Parent Company, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. BancShares is required to submit a capital plan annually to the Federal Reserve in accordance with the applicable transition provisions, and the annual capital plan includes planned capital distributions over a specified forecasting horizon. BancShares is subject to biennial supervisory capital stress testing under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s SCB requirement. BancShares will participate in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s 2024 CCAR process, and through that process BancShares will receive its individual SCB. BancShares&#8217; supervisory stress testing results under CCAR could impact the ability of the Parent Company to declare dividends or make other capital distributions, including common share repurchases. 

Additionally, under the FDI Act, IDIs, such as FCB, are prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distributions, the institution would become &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; as such term is used in the statute. Furthermore, under Basel III capital guidelines, banking institutions with a Regulatory Capital Ratio above the Basel III minimum but below the Basel III requirement will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Based on FCB&#8217;s current financial condition, the Parent Company currently does not expect these provisions to have any material impact on its ability to receive dividends from FCB. The Parent Company&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries pay dividends to the Parent Company periodically without impact from these provisions. 

Crypto-Asset Related Activities . In 2022, the FRB released supervisory guidance encouraging all banking organizations supervised by the agency to notify its lead supervisory point of contact at the Federal Reserve prior to engaging in any crypto-asset related activity and the FDIC issued a financial institution letter requiring its supervised institutions to provide notice and obtain supervisory feedback prior to engaging in any crypto-related activities. Prior to engaging in any such activities, the banking organization is expected to ensure that the activities are legally permissible under relevant state and federal laws, and ensure that the banking organization has adequate systems, risk management, and controls to ensure that the activities are conducted in a safe and sound manner consistent with applicable laws, including consumer protection laws. On February 23, 2023, the federal banking agencies issued an interagency statement addressing liquidity risks related to crypto-asset market vulnerabilities and the need for banking organizations to establish and maintain effective risk management and controls related to any crypto-asset activities. On August 8, 2023, the FRB announced the establishment of a Novel Activities Supervision Program which will enhance the agency&#8217;s supervision processes in respect of crypto-related activities, use of distributed ledger technologies, and other novel technologies by its supervised banking organizations. BancShares does not engage in any crypto-related activities. 

Subsidiary Bank - FCB 

General. FCB is a state-chartered bank, subject to supervision and examination by, and the regulations and reporting requirements of, the FDIC and the NCCOB. Deposit obligations are insured by the FDIC to the maximum legal limits. Based on asset size, FCB is subject to certain additional requirements under the FDIC&#8217;s regulations. FCB is also subject to enforcement, supervisory and examination authorities of the CFPB. 

FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessment Rates. FCB is required to pay the FDIC premiums for deposit insurance. On October 18, 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules uniformly by 2 basis points (&#8220;bps&#8221;), beginning in the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. This price increase has been instituted to account for extraordinary growth in insured deposits during the first and second quarters of 2020, which caused the Depositors Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) reserve ratio to decline below the statutory minimum of 1.35%. The increased assessment rate schedules will remain in effect until the reserve ratio meets or exceeds 2 percent, absent further action by the FDIC. On November 16, 2023, the FDIC adopted a final rule to implement a special assessment to recover the loss to the DIF associated with the bank failures in spring of 2023. Under the final rule, the assessment base for an IDI will be equal to the institution&#8217;s estimated uninsured deposits as of December 31, 2022, adjusted to exclude the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits. The FDIC will collect the special assessment at an annual rate of 13.4 bps beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2024, and the agency will continue to collect special assessments for an anticipated total of eight quarterly assessment periods. The special assessment for FCB totaled $64 million at December 31, 2023. 

Capital Requirements. The Basel III and PCA well capitalized thresholds for the Regulatory Capital Ratios are described above in the Parent Company &#8220;Capital Requirements&#8221; discussion. Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements may result in certain actions by federal banking agencies that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of FCB. As of December 31, 2023, the Regulatory Capital Ratios of FCB exceeded the applicable Basel III requirements and the well capitalized thresholds as further addressed under &#8220;Stockholders&#8217; Equity and Capital Adequacy&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Covered Insured Depository Institution Contingency Planning Requirements . Under the FDIC&#8217;s CIDI Rule, an IDI with $50 billion or more in total assets is required to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency Resolution Plan for the resolution of the institution in the event of its failure. The FDIC requires the Resolution Plan to ensure that the FDIC, as receiver, would be able to resolve the institution pursuant to the receivership provisions of the FDI Act. The FDIC has stated that it will provide covered IDIs with 12 months advance notice prior to the submission deadline of its Resolution Plan. On August 29, 2023, the FDIC proposed a rule to amend the CIDI Rule to enhance its resolution plan requirements for covered IDIs with $100 billion in total consolidated assets and require limited informational filings for IDIs with $50 billion or more, but less than $100 billion, in total consolidated assets. Under the proposal, the CIDI Rule would be amended to (1) adjust required content, including with respect to resolution strategy, and codify certain aspects of previously-issued guidance and feedback, (2) establish a clear, two-prong standard for the assessments of resolution plans, (3) adjust the frequency of submissions to a two-year cycle which will include engagement and capabilities testing, and (4) require an &#8220;interim supplement&#8221; submission for certain key content elements to be provided by all covered IDIs in the year between submissions to ensure that information is updated appropriately. The comment period closed on November 30, 2023. We are in the process of evaluating the proposal and assessing its potential impact. 

In 2023, FCB submitted a limited scope Resolution Plan under the CIDI Rule and guidance from the FDIC, prior to which it was not required to do so. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders . Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, Regulation W and Regulation O, the authority of FCB to engage in transactions with related parties or &#8220;affiliates&#8221; or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between FCB and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to FCB, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, FCB generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

FCB receives management fees from its subsidiaries and the Parent Company for expenses incurred for performing various functions on their behalf. These fees are charged to each company based upon the estimated cost for usage of services by that company. The fees are eliminated from the consolidated financial statements. 

Community Reinvestment Act . FCB is subject to the requirements of the CRA. The CRA imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of the local communities, including low- and moderate-income (&#8220;LMI&#8221;) neighborhoods. If FCB receives a rating from the Federal Reserve of less than &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; under the CRA, restrictions would be imposed on our operating activities. In addition, in order for a FHC, like the Parent Company, to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each IDI subsidiary of the FHC must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA. FCB currently has a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating. 

On October 24, 2023, the federal banking agencies adopted an interagency final rule to strengthen and modernize the existing CRA regulations. Under the final rule, the federal banking agencies will evaluate a bank&#8217;s CRA performance based upon the varied activities that it conducts and the communities in which it operates. CRA evaluations and data collection requirements will be tailored based on bank size and type. FCB is considered a large bank with assets of greater than $10 billion under the final rule, and therefore will be evaluated under new lending, retail services and products, community development financing, and community development services tests. The final rule includes CRA assessment areas associated with mobile and online banking, and new metrics and benchmarks to assess retail lending performance. In addition, the final rule emphasizes smaller loans and investments that can have a high impact and be more responsive to the needs of LMI communities. The final rule will take effect on April 1, 2024; however, compliance with the majority of the final rule&#8217;s provisions will not be required until January 1, 2026, and the data reporting requirements of the final rule will not take effect until January 1, 2027. 

As part of the CIT Merger, BancShares implemented a community benefit plan for the combined bank. The community benefit plan was developed in collaboration with representatives of national, state, and local community reinvestment organizations. Under the community benefit plan, FCB committed to invest $16 billion over a five-year period beginning in 2021 in the communities served by FCB, including $3.2 billion in home purchase, home improvement and mortgage refinance loans focused on LMI and minority borrowers in majority-minority geographies, $5.9 billion in small business lending, and $6.9 billion in community development lending and investments. The plan also provides for $50 million in CRA grants. 

In addition, FCB worked with national, statewide, and local community reinvestment organizations to establish an addendum to the bank&#8217;s existing commitment in connection with the SVBB Acquisition. On November 14, 2023, FCB announced an expanded commitment to communities in Northern California and Eastern Massachusetts. The addendum recognizes legacy Silicon Valley Bank relationships but establishes a new $6.5 billion community benefit target with the following components: $2.25 billion in small business lending, $3.6 billion in CRA development lending and investing, and $650 million in residential mortgages to LMI borrowers and in selected LMI census tracts. Additionally, FCB is committing to $35 million in CRA grants, with $10 million of that sum dedicated to an affordable home mortgage subsidy program. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the United States Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Asset Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) Regulation . Governmental policy in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (&#8220;BSA&#8221;) and subsequent laws and regulations require financial institutions to take steps to prevent the use of their systems to facilitate the flow of illegal or illicit money or terrorist funds and to report certain activity to the government. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;) and subsequent rules imposed additional compliance and due diligence obligations, including standards for verifying customer identification at account opening and maintaining expanded records, as well as beneficial ownership requirements. 

An institution subject to the BSA, such as FCB (and FC International, as described below), in addition to maintaining a written BSA/AML compliance program, must also provide AML training to employees, designate an AML compliance officer and annually audit the AML program to assess its effectiveness. The United States has imposed economic sanctions on transactions with certain designated foreign countries, nationals and others. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate BSA, AML and OFAC programs, or to comply with all the relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences, including material fines and sanctions. FCB has implemented a program designed to facilitate compliance with the full extent of the applicable BSA and OFAC related laws, regulations and related sanctions. 

On January 1, 2021, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act, which enacted the most significant overhaul of the BSA and related AML laws since the Patriot Act. Notable amendments include (1) significant changes to the collection of beneficial ownership information and the establishment of a beneficial ownership registry, which requires certain entities to report beneficial ownership information to the United States Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (&#8220;FinCEN&#8221;) (which will be maintained by FinCEN and made available upon request to financial institutions); (2) enhanced whistleblower provisions, which provide that one or more whistleblowers who voluntarily provide original information leading to the successful enforcement of violations of the AML laws in any judicial or administrative action brought by the Secretary of the Treasury or the United States Attorney General resulting in monetary sanctions exceeding $1 million will receive not more than 30% of the monetary sanctions collected and will receive increased protections; (3) increased penalties for violations of the BSA; (4) improvements to existing information sharing provisions that permit financial institutions to share information relating to Suspicious Activity Reports with foreign branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates (except those located in China, Russia, or certain other jurisdictions) for the purpose of combating illicit finance risks; and (5) expanded duties and powers of FinCEN. Many of the amendments require the United States Department of the Treasury (&#8220;Treasury Department&#8221;) and FinCEN to promulgate rules. On September 29, 2022, FinCEN issued final regulations implementing the amendments with respect to beneficial ownership and these rules went into effect on January 1, 2024. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations . FCB is also subject to certain laws and regulations designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws include the Truth in Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;), the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The laws and related regulations mandate certain disclosures and regulate the manner in which financial institutions transact business with certain customers. 

To promote fairness and transparency for mortgages, credit cards, and other consumer financial products and services, the CFPB is responsible for interpreting and enforcing federal consumer financial laws that, among other things, govern the provision of deposit accounts along with mortgage origination and servicing. Some federal consumer financial laws enforced by the CFPB include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, TILA, the Truth in Savings Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The CFPB is also authorized to prevent any institution under its authority from engaging in an unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice in connection with consumer financial products and services. 

Under TILA, as implemented by Regulation Z, mortgage lenders are required to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers&#8217; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider eight enumerated underwriting factors when making the credit decision. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate QMs, which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ATR requirements. In general, a QM is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a QM the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. 

Additionally, the CFPB has the authority to take supervisory and enforcement action against banks and other financial services companies under the agency&#8217;s jurisdiction that fail to comply with federal consumer financial laws. As an IDI with total assets of more than $10 billion, FCB is subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervisory and enforcement authorities. In recent years, the CFPB has significantly increased its enforcement staff and been active in bringing enforcement actions against banks and other financial institutions to enforce consumer financial laws. The CFPB has launched an initiative aimed at eliminating or restricting a number of fees assessed by financial institutions, including overdraft and non-sufficient funds (&#8220;NSF&#8221;) fees as well as other transaction- and account management-related fees deemed by the CFPB to be &#8220;junk fees.&#8221; In January 2024, the CFPB proposed two rules addressing financial institutions&#8217; consumer overdraft and NSF fee practices. The first proposed rule would narrow an existing exemption from the TILA and its implementing Regulation Z for the extension of overdraft credit, thereby subjecting overdraft credit to disclosure and other regulatory compliance obligations under those authorities. The second proposed rule would prohibit the imposition of NSF fees on transactions that are declined instantaneously or near-instantaneously. Further, in 2023, the CFPB brought enforcement actions against a number of financial institutions for overdraft practices that the CFPB alleged to be unlawful and ordered each of these institutions to pay a substantial civil money penalty in addition to customer restitution. The CFPB found that these institutions engaged in unlawful overdraft practices by, among other things, systematically and repeatedly charging fees to customers with insufficient funds in their accounts, imposing overdraft fees without adequate disclosures, charging overdraft fees without proper consent, and misleading customers about the terms and costs of overdraft coverage. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and in certain circumstances allows state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both state and federal laws and regulations. The FDIC has backup enforcement authority over a depository institution holding company, such as the Parent Company, if the conduct or threatened conduct of such holding company poses a risk to the DIF, although such authority may not be used if the holding company is generally in sound condition and does not pose a foreseeable and material risk to the DIF. 

Other Regulations applicable to the Parent Company and FCB 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cybersecurity . As a large financial institution, we are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to consumer privacy and data protection. These laws govern the collection, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information, the intent of which is to increase transparency related to how personal information is processed, choices individuals have to control how their information is used and to protect the privacy of such information. Under privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and its implementing regulations and guidance, we are limited in our ability to disclose certain non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. Financial institutions, such as us, are required by statute and regulation to notify consumers of their privacy policies and practices and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third-party. In addition, such financial institutions must appropriately safeguard their customers&#8217; nonpublic, personal information and, in some instances, notify regulators and/or customers in the event of a data breach under applicable laws. 

The changing privacy laws in the United States create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal information, including the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the &#8220;CCPA&#8221;), which applies to for-profit businesses that conduct business in California and meet certain revenue or data collection thresholds. The California Privacy Rights Act (&#8220;CPRA&#8221;), which became effective on January 1, 2023 and becomes enforceable on March 29, 2024, amended the scope and several of the substantive requirements of the CCPA, as well as created an administrative and enforcement division, specific to CCPA compliance. 

In New York, the cybersecurity regulation (the &#8220;NY Cybersecurity Regulation&#8221;) adopted by the New York Department of Financial Services (&#8220;NYDFS&#8221;) in 2017, and subsequently amended through November 1, 2023, requires financial services institutions regulated by NYDFS, including BancShares or certain subsidiaries, to, among other things, implement certain cybersecurity controls and make reports to NYDFS upon the occurrence of certain cybersecurity events. The majority of the latest amended provisions of the NY Cybersecurity Regulation will take effect on April 29, 2024. 

In April 2022, the federal banking agencies, including the FDIC, issued a rule mandating cybersecurity notification requirements for banking organizations and their service providers. Specifically, the rule requires banking organizations to notify their primary federal regulator as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the discovery of a &#8220;computer-security incident&#8221; that rises to the level of a &#8220;notification incident&#8221;, as those terms are defined under the final rule. Banks&#8217; service providers are required under the rule to notify any affected bank to or on behalf of which the service provider provides services &#8220;as soon as possible&#8221; after determining that it has experienced an incident that materially disrupts or degrades, or is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, covered services provided to such bank for as much as four hours. Federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and cybersecurity programs for implementing safeguards under the supervision of the board of directors. These guidelines, along with related regulatory materials, increasingly focus on risk management and processes related to information technology and the use of third parties in the provision of financial services. 

In July 2023, the SEC adopted new cybersecurity rules for public companies, like BancShares. Under these new rules, public companies must disclose a material cybersecurity incident within four days of management&#8217;s determination that the incident is material. Companies also must include enhanced cybersecurity risk assessment and management, strategy and governance disclosures, including disclosures regarding management&#8217;s role in overseeing the public company&#8217;s cybersecurity risk management and compliance program, in their annual reports. See Item 1C. Cybersecurity for additional information. 

In Europe and in the United Kingdom, both the EU General Data Protection Regulation and the UK General Data Protection Regulation impose extensive obligations on companies that process personal data of individuals in Europe, with the potential for significant fines for non-compliance (up to four percent of total annual worldwide revenue). Some of its requirements include prompt notice of data breaches, in certain circumstances, to affected individuals and supervisory authorities. 

Congress, federal and state regulators, as well as regulators outside the United States, have implemented or are considering implementing data protection laws or regulations, which could create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal information, impacting our data security- and privacy-related internal controls and risk profile. 

On October 19, 2023, the CFPB announced a proposed rule to adopt a regulation regarding personal financial data rights that is designed to promote &#8220;open banking.&#8221; If enacted as proposed, the regulation would require, among other things, that data providers, including any financial institution, make available to consumers and certain authorized third parties upon request certain covered transaction, account and payment information. 

On October 30, 2023, the Biden Administration issued an Executive Order on the use of and risks associated with artificial intelligence (&#8220;AI&#8221;) systems, requiring certain federal agencies, including the CFPB, to address potential discrimination in the housing and consumer financial markets relating to the use by financial institutions of AI technologies. 

Climate-Related Regulation and Risk Management. In recent years the federal banking agencies have increased their focus on climate-related risks impacting the operations of banks, the communities they serve and the broader financial system. Accordingly, the agencies have begun to enhance their supervisory expectations regarding the climate risk management practices of larger banking organizations, such as BancShares, including by encouraging such banks to: (1) ensure that management of climate-related risk exposures has been incorporated into existing governance structures; (2) evaluate the potential impact of climate-related risks on the bank&#8217;s financial condition, operations and business objectives as part of its strategic planning process; (3) account for the effects of climate change in stress testing scenarios and systemic risk assessments; (4) revise expectations for credit portfolio concentrations based on climate-related factors; (5) consider investments in climate-related initiatives and lending to communities disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change; (6) evaluate the impact of climate change on the bank&#8217;s borrowers and consider possible changes to underwriting criteria to account for climate-related risks to mortgaged properties; (7) incorporate climate-related financial risk into the bank&#8217;s internal reporting, monitoring and escalation processes; and (8) prepare for the transition risks to the bank associated with the adjustment to a low-carbon economy and related changes in laws, regulations, governmental policies, technology, and consumer behavior and expectations. 

In 2021, the OCC issued proposed principles for climate-related financial risk management for national banks with more than $100 billion in total assets. In 2022, the FDIC and FRB issued their own proposed principles for climate risk management by larger banking organizations. On October 24, 2023, the federal banking agencies jointly finalized principles for climate-related financial risk management for banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The principles are consistent with the risk management framework in the agencies&#8217; existing rules and regulations, with a focus on addressing physical and transition risks associated with climate change. The principles cover the following areas: strategic planning; governance; policies, procedures, and limits; data, risk measurement and reporting; risk management; and scenario analysis. Based on our asset size, BancShares is expected to implement the principles under the guidance. The guidance sets forth principles which the agencies expect will be incorporated into the risk-management programs of covered banking organizations, but not binding requirements. BancShares expects that its examiners will refer to the principles in the guidance as best practices for managing climate-related financial risks. In addition, states in which we conduct business have taken, or are considering taking, similar actions on climate-related financial risks. 

Separate from the federal banking agencies, on March 21, 2022, the SEC issued a proposed climate disclosure rule, which if adopted, would require BancShares to disclose certain climate-related information such as governance of climate-related risks and relevant risk management processes that could affect it, a climate related financial statements matrix and more. Implementation of the proposed climate disclosure rule has been delayed by the SEC on multiple occasions, and the proposed rule has yet to be finalized. On December 6, 2023, the SEC noted in its regulatory agenda that the adoption of final climate disclosure rules has been moved to April 2024. 

Compensation . Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries, by other financial regulatory agencies. The federal banking regulators have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations take into account risk factors and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. The guidance also provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or other corporate decisions. The guidance further provides that the regulators may pursue enforcement actions against a banking organization if its incentive compensation and related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safe and sound practices. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness, and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies and the SEC to issue regulations requiring covered financial institutions to prohibit incentive compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. 

In October 2022, the SEC adopted final rules implementing the incentive-based compensation recovery (&#8220;clawback&#8221;) provisions mandated by Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rules directed U.S. stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement, disclose and enforce clawback policies to recover excess incentive-based compensation that current or former executive officers received based on financial reporting measures that are later restated. In June 2023, the SEC approved the proposed clawback listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC (&#8220;Nasdaq&#8221;), which now require Nasdaq-listed companies, including BancShares, to (i) adopt and implement a compliant clawback policy; (ii) file the clawback policy as an exhibit to their annual reports; and (iii) provide certain disclosures relating to any compensation recovery triggered by the clawback policy. Our clawback policy is filed herein as Exhibit 97. 

Other Regulated Subsidiaries 

As noted above, certain subsidiaries of the Parent Company and FCB are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the SEC, FINRA, state regulatory agencies, and other regulatory authorities as &#8220;regulated entities.&#8221; 

FCB&#8217;s insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and the solvency standards that must be met and maintained; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. Our Vermont insurance captive subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with the insurance regulatory authority, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. 

Specialty business operations, specifically the rail, maritime, and other equipment financing operations, are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where business is conducted. In the United States, equipment financing and leasing operations, including for railcars, ships, and other equipment, are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, operations, maintenance, and mechanical standards promulgated by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the United States Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Association of American Railroads, the Maritime Administration, the United States Coast Guard, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, state agencies regulate some aspects of rail and maritime operations with respect to health and safety matters. 

In connection with the CIT Merger, FCB established as a wholly-owned subsidiary, FC International, Inc. (&#8220;FC International&#8221;), which is a corporation chartered by the Federal Reserve pursuant to Section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (&#8220;Edge Act&#8221;) and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation K. Edge Act corporations are banking organizations that are authorized to engage in international banking and foreign financial transactions, and the U.S. activities of such corporations are generally limited to those that are incidental to their foreign operations. FCB established FC International for the purpose of holding the equity interests in the foreign nonbank subsidiaries (&#8220;foreign companies&#8221;) that FCB acquired in the CIT Merger. Certain of the foreign companies have been, or are in the process of being, wound-down or dissolved. The active foreign companies acquired by FCB support the railcar leasing business acquired from CIT in Canada and Mexico. FC International is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve, including examination, reporting, capital, and the BSA and AML requirements pursuant to the Edge Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation K. 

Available Information ##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We make available on our investor relations website (ir.firstcitizens.com/overview/default.aspx) BancShares&#8217; Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Interested parties may also directly access the SEC&#8217;s website ( www.sec.gov ), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information electronically filed by BancShares. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those websites is not part of this report. 

