Employers including Apple Inc., Prudential Financial Inc. and BMO Financial Group plan broader September
returns at their U.S. offices. Some companies, such as Ally Financial Inc., have sent notes in recent weeks
reminding workers to come into the office consistently. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it was lifting all
vaccination and other requirements to enter most of its offices after Labor Day, eliminating a final barrier to a
full return.                                                            
                                                                                  
Ally Financial encouraged employees to return to its offices in recent months. Like many companies, it found
that some employees stayed home anyway, said Kathie Patterson, the financial-services company's HR
chief. Ally has hired close to 2,000 people during the pandemic, Ms. Patterson said, and new employees
need to learn alongside company veterans.                               
The company sent a message to staff in recent weeks to remind employees that office attendance is
expected, and leaders are telling staff to reiterate that point. "There is a real strong push now, after Labor
Day, for all employees to come back into the workplace," she said. "We want a more consistent schedule."
For those workers who have spent little to no time in the office, managers are reaching out to have individual
conversations, Ms. Patterson said, and may give staffers a deadline to make personal arrangements to
return. Further action could take place in the year ahead.              
"We're prepared to have a very clear conversation that this position is in-office," she said. "If they're not in the
office, it could be seen as a form of insubordination, but we have not gotten to that point yet."

Equifax Inc. provided inaccurate credit scores on millions of U.S. consumers seeking loans during a
three-week period earlier this year, according to bank executives and others familiar with the errors.
Equifax sent the erroneous scores on people applying for auto loans, mortgages and credit cards to banks
and nonbank lenders big and small -- including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc., the people said. The scores were sometimes off by 20 points or more in either direction, the people said,
enough to alter the interest rates consumers were offered or to result in their applications' being rejected
altogether.