MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY As described further throughout this Executive Summary, Citi demonstrated continued progress across the franchise during 2021: • Citi’s earnings increased significantly versus the prior year, largely reflecting an allowance for credit loss (ACL) release of approximately $8.8 billion as a result of continued improvement in both the macroeconomic environment and portfolio credit quality. • Citi’s revenues declined 5% from the prior year. Excluding a pretax loss of approximately $0.7 billion (approximately $0.6 billion after-tax) related to Citi’s agreement to sell its Australia consumer banking business in Asia Global Consumer Banking (GCB) (see “Citigroup” below), Citi’s revenues declined 4%, as strength in investment banking, equity markets, the private bank and securities services in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) was more than offset by normalization in market activity in fixed income markets within ICG, as well as the impact of lower deposit spreads and card loans across GCB. • Citi’s expenses included pretax costs of approximately $1.2 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) primarily related to charges incurred from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer banking business (for additional information, see “Asia GCB” below). • Citi continued to invest in its transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, and make business-led investments. • Citi had broad-based deposit growth across ICG and GCB (up 3% and 5%, respectively), reflecting continued engagement across both corporate and consumer clients. • Citi returned approximately $11.8 billion of capital to its common shareholders in the form of $4.2 billion in dividends and $7.6 billion in common share repurchases, totaling approximately 105 million common shares, while maintaining robust regulatory capital ratios. • In addition to the sale announcements related to Asia GCB, Citi also announced it intends to exit the consumer, small business and middlemarket banking operations of Citibanamex in Mexico. Citi’s planned divestitures of its consumer businesses across Mexico, Asia and EMEA are aligned with the repositioning of its consumer operations to focus on global wealth centers, as well as payments and lending and a targeted retail presence in the U.S. (For additional information on the exit markets and Citi’s revised reporting structure effective for the first quarter of 2022, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Revised Reporting Strategy” above and “Latin America GCB” and “Asia GCB” below.) Although economic growth and employment rates have continued to recover from pandemic-related lows, particularly in the U.S., various macroeconomic and other challenges and uncertainties related to, among other things, the duration and severity of the pandemic-related public health crisis, disruptions of global supply chains, inflationary pressures, increasing interest rates and geopolitical tensions involving Eastern Europe, will continue to create uncertainty around Citi’s businesses and results. For a discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2022, see “2021 Results Summary,” “Risk Factors,” each respective business’s results of operations and “Managing Global Risk” below. 2021 Results Summary Citigroup Citigroup reported net income of $22.0 billion, or $10.14 per share, compared to net income of $11.0 billion, or $4.72 per share, in the prior year. The increase in net income was driven by lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 20%, up modestly from 19% in the prior year. Earnings per share increased significantly, primarily driven by net income. Citigroup revenues of $71.9 billion decreased 5% from the prior year. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, Citigroup revenues decreased 4%, primarily driven by lower revenues in both ICG and GCB, partially offset by higher revenues in Corporate/Other. As discussed above, Citi’s 2021 results include the impacts of divestitures of Citi’s consumer banking businesses in Asia. Reported revenues include the Australia loss on sale (approximately $0.7 billion pretax, $0.6 billion aftertax), primarily reflecting the impact of a currency translation adjustment (CTA) loss (net of hedges) already reflected in the Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) component of equity. Upon closing, the CTA balance will be removed from the AOCI component of equity, resulting in a neutral impact to Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. Reported expenses include the impact of the Korea VERP of approximately $1.1 billion (approximately $0.8 billion after-tax) and contract modification costs related to the Asia divestitures of approximately $119 million (approximately $98 million after-tax). (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of the Australia loss on sale, Korea VERP and other Asia divestiture-related costs are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the divestiture-related impacts described above provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its broader results and Asia GCB businesses’ results for investors, industry analysts and others.) Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 1% from the prior year to $668 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), Citigroup’s end-ofperiod loans were largely unchanged, as growth in ICG was offset by lower loans in GCB and Corporate/Other. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 8 increased 3% to $1.3 trillion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 4%, reflecting growth in both GCB and ICG. (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of FX translation provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses for investors, industry analysts and others.) Expenses Citigroup operating expenses of $48.2 billion increased 9% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Asia divestitures, expenses of $47.0 billion increased 6%, primarily reflecting investments in Citi’s transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Citi expects expenses in 2022 to continue to be impacted by its transformation-related and business-led investments. Cost of Credit Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims were a benefit of $3.8 billion, compared to a cost of $17.5 billion in the prior year primarily related to the pandemic. The decreased cost of credit was driven by a net ACL reserve release of $8.8 billion (versus a build of $9.8 billion in the prior year) as well as lower net credit losses. Citi’s net ACL release primarily reflected improvement in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook and portfolio credit quality. Citi could experience higher credit costs in 2022, as the level of ACL releases from 2021 are unlikely to continue, and Citi expects to build ACL reserves for new lending volumes. For further information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below. Net credit losses of $4.9 billion declined 36% from the prior year. Consumer net credit losses of $4.5 billion decreased 32%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes and improved delinquencies in the North America cards portfolios. Corporate net credit losses of $395 million decreased 60%, primarily reflecting improvements in portfolio credit quality. For additional information on Citi’s consumer and corporate credit costs and ACL, see each respective business’s results of operations and “Credit Risk” below. Capital Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.2% as of December 31, 2021, based on the Basel III Standardized Approach framework for determining risk-weighted assets, compared to 11.5% as of December 31, 2020, based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets. The increase in the ratio primarily reflected actions to reduce risk-weighted assets (RWA) and a temporary pause in common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021, in preparation for the implementation of the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022. Citi resumed common share repurchases in January 2022. Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 5.7% as of December 31, 2021, compared to 7.0% as of December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by the expiration of temporary relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as of the end of the first quarter of 2021. For additional information on SA-CCR and Citi’s capital ratios, see “Capital Resources” below. Institutional Clients Group ICG net income of $15.7 billion increased 36%, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. ICG operating expenses increased 8% to $26.5 billion, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. ICG revenues of $43.9 billion decreased 3%, as a 7% increase in Banking revenues was more than offset by an 11% decline in Markets and securities services revenues. The increase in Banking revenues included the impact of $144 million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending and the private bank, compared to losses of $51 million in the prior year. Banking revenues of $23.3 billion (excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges) increased 7%, as higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank were partially offset by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $7.5 billion increased 30%, reflecting growth across products, particularly in advisory and equity underwriting. Advisory revenues increased 78% to $1.8 billion, equity underwriting revenues increased 53% to $2.4 billion and debt underwriting revenues increased 3% to $3.3 billion. Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $9.4 billion declined 4%, as higher fee revenues, including a recovery in commercial card revenues, as well as growth in trade were more than offset by the impact of lower deposit spreads. Private bank revenues increased 5%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges, private bank revenues of $4.0 billion increased 6%, driven by higher loan volumes and spreads, as well as higher managed investments and deposits, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues decreased 3%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $2.3 billion decreased 1%, as lower cost of funds was more than offset by lower loan volumes. Markets and securities services revenues of $20.8 billion decreased 11%. Fixed income markets revenues of $13.7 billion decreased 22%, reflecting a normalization in market activity across rates and spread products. Equity markets revenues of $4.5 billion increased 25%, driven by growth across all products, reflecting solid client activity and favorable market conditions. Securities services revenues of $2.7 billion increased 6%, as strong fee revenues, driven by higher settlement volumes and higher assets under custody, were partially offset by lower deposit spreads. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG in 2021, see “Institutional Clients Group” below. 9 Global Consumer Banking GCB net income was $6.1 billion, compared to net income of $667 million in the prior year, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by lower revenues and higher expenses. GCB operating expenses of $20.0 billion increased 12%. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Asia divestitures, expenses increased 5%, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments and volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. GCB revenues of $27.3 billion decreased 10% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, revenues decreased 9%, as continued solid deposit growth and growth in assets under management were more than offset by lower card loans and lower deposit spreads. For additional information on GCB’s results of operations, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking” below. North America GCB revenues of $17.5 billion decreased 9%, with lower revenues across branded cards, retail services and retail banking. Branded cards revenues of $8.2 billion decreased 7%, reflecting continued higher payment rates. Retail services revenues of $5.1 billion decreased 15%, reflecting continued higher payment rates and lower average loans as well as higher partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $4.2 billion decreased 7%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes was more than offset by lower deposit spreads and lower mortgage revenues. North America GCB average deposits of $206 billion increased 17% year-over-year and average retail banking loans of $50 billion decreased 4% year-over-year, while assets under management of $87 billion increased 8%. Average branded cards loans of $81 billion decreased 4% and average retail services loans decreased 7%, reflecting higher payment rates. Branded cards spend volume of $411 billion increased 21% and retail services spend volume of $92 billion increased 18%, reflecting a recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB in 2021, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” below. International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) of $9.8 billion declined 11% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, international GCB revenues declined 7%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Latin America GCB revenues decreased 9%, driven by lower average loans and lower deposit spreads. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, Asia GCB revenues decreased 6%, reflecting lower spreads, partially offset by higher investment revenues. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB in 2021, including the impacts of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below. For additional information on Citi’s consumer banking business in Australia, see “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below. Year-over-year, excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB average deposits of $146 billion increased 5%, average retail banking loans of $72 billion decreased 3% and assets under management of $145 billion increased 5%. On this basis, international GCB average card loans of $20 billion decreased 13%, while credit card spend volumes of $100 billion increased 9%, reflecting a continued recovery in credit card spend activity from the pandemic-related low levels in the prior year. Corporate/Other Corporate/Other net income was $215 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher revenues, lower expenses, lower cost of credit, and the release of a foreign tax credit (FTC) valuation allowance. Operating expenses of $1.6 billion decreased 14%, reflecting the absence of the prior year’s civil money penalty and the wind-down of legacy assets, partially offset by increases related to Citi’s transformation. Corporate/Other revenues of $667 million compared to $71 million in the prior year, primarily driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2021, see “Corporate/Other” below. CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE Citi has embarked on a multiyear transformation, with the target outcome to change Citi’s business and operating models such that they simultaneously strengthen risk and controls and improve Citi’s value to customers, clients and shareholders. This includes efforts to effectively implement the October 2020 FRB and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) consent orders issued to Citigroup and Citibank, respectively. In the second quarter of 2021, Citi made an initial submission to the OCC, and submitted its plans to address the consent orders to both regulators during the third quarter of 2021. Citi continues to work constructively with the regulators, and will continue to reflect their feedback in its project plans and execution efforts. As discussed above, Citi’s efforts include continued investments in its transformation, including the remediation of its consent orders. Citi’s CEO has made the strengthening of Citi’s risk and control environment a strategic priority and has established a Chief Administrative Officer organization to centralize program management. In addition, the Citigroup and Citibank Boards of Directors each formed a Transformation Oversight Committee, an ad hoc committee of each Board, to provide oversight of management’s remediation efforts under the consent orders. For additional information about the consent orders, see “Risk Factors— Compliance Risks” below and Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020. INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP As of December 31, 2021, Institutional Clients Group (ICG) included Banking and Markets and securities services (for additional information on these businesses, see “Citigroup Segments” above). ICG provided corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities services. ICG transacted with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the private bank as part of a new reporting segment, Personal Banking and Wealth Management, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above. ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients with transactional services and clearing and providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Such fees are recognized at the point in time when Citigroup’s performance under the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the trade/execution date or closing of a transaction. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. Revenue is also generated from assets under custody and administration, which is recognized as/when the associated promised service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi. Revenue generated from these activities is primarily recorded in Administration and other fiduciary fees. For additional information on these various types of revenues, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, as a market maker, ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions. Mark-to-market gains and losses on certain credit derivatives (used to hedge the corporate loan portfolio) are also recorded in Principal transactions (for additional information on Principal transactions revenue, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other primarily includes realized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, gains and losses on equity securities not held in trading accounts and other non-recurring gains and losses. Interest income earned on assets held, less interest paid on long- and short-term debt and to customers on deposits, is recorded as Net interest income. The amount and types of Markets revenues are impacted by a variety of interrelated factors, including market liquidity; changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities; investor confidence and other macroeconomic conditions. Assuming all other market conditions do not change, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer spreads generally result in increases in revenues. However, changes in market conditions can significantly impact client activity levels, bid/offer spreads and the fair value of product inventory. For example, a decrease in market liquidity may increase bid/offer spreads, decrease client activity levels and widen credit spreads on product inventory positions. ICG’s management of the Markets businesses involves daily monitoring and evaluation of the above factors at the trading desk as well as the country level. In the Markets businesses, client revenues are those revenues directly attributable to client transactions at the time of inception, including commissions, interest or fees earned. Client revenues do not include the results of client facilitation activities (e.g., holding product inventory in anticipation of client demand) or the results of certain economic hedging activities. ICG’s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in 95 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2021, ICG had $1.8 trillion in assets and $950 billion in deposits. Securities services and issuer services managed $24.0 trillion in assets under custody and administration at December 31, 2021, of which Citi provides both custody and administrative services to certain clients related to $1.9 trillion of such assets. Managed assets under trust were $3.8 trillion at December 31, 2021. For additional information on these operations, see “Administration and Other Fiduciary Fees” in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2021 vs. 2020 Net income of $15.7 billion increased 36% versus the prior year, primarily driven by lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. Revenues decreased 3%, reflecting lower Markets and securities services revenues, partially offset by higher Banking revenues. Banking revenues were up 7% (both including and excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges), driven by higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank, partially offset by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Markets and securities services revenues were down 11%, primarily reflecting a normalization in fixed income markets revenues, partially offset by growth in equity markets and securities services. Citi expects that revenues in its markets and investment banking businesses will continue to reflect the overall market environment during 2022. Within Banking: • Investment banking revenues were up 30%, reflecting growth in the overall market wallet. Advisory revenues increased 78%, reflecting strength in North America and EMEA, driven by growth in the market wallet as well as wallet share gains. Equity underwriting revenues increased 53%, reflecting strength in North America and EMEA, driven by growth in the market wallet, as well as wallet share gains. Debt underwriting revenues increased 3%, reflecting strength in EMEA, as growth in the market wallet was partially offset by a decline in wallet share. • Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 4% (both including and excluding the impact of FX translation), reflecting a decline in revenues in the cash business, partially offset by an increase in trade revenues. Cash revenues decreased, driven by the ongoing impact of lower deposit spreads. The decrease was partially offset by strong growth in fee revenues reflecting solid client engagement and growth in transaction volumes, including growth in USD clearing, commercial cards and cross-border solutions. The increase in trade revenues was driven by improved trade spreads and growth in loans, reflecting an increase in trade flows and originations, primarily in Asia and EMEA. Average trade loans increased 5% (both including and excluding the impact of FX translation). • Corporate lending revenues decreased 3%, including the impact of losses on loan hedges. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, revenues decreased 1%, as lower cost of funds was more than offset by lower loan volumes, reflecting muted demand given strong client liquidity positions. Average loans decreased 20% during the current year. • Private bank revenues increased 5%. Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, revenues increased 6%, driven by strong performance in North America and EMEA. The higher revenues reflected continued momentum with new and existing clients, resulting in higher loan volumes and spreads, higher managed investments revenues and higher deposit volumes. The increase in revenues was partially offset by lower deposit spreads due to the ongoing low interest rate environment and lower capital markets revenue. Within Markets and securities services: • Fixed income markets revenues decreased 22%, reflecting lower revenues across all regions, largely driven by a comparison to a strong prior year, as well as a normalization in market activity, particularly in rates and currencies, and spread products. Non-interest revenues decreased, reflecting lower investor client activity across rates and currencies and spread products. Net interest income also decreased, largely reflecting a change in the mix of trading positions. Rates and currencies revenues decreased 27%, driven by the normalization in market activity, and a comparison to a strong prior year that included elevated levels of volatility related to the pandemic. Spread products and other fixed income revenues decreased 11%, driven by a comparison to a strong prior year and the normalization in market activity, particularly in flow trading and structured products, reflecting lower volatility and spreads, partially offset by strong securitization activity. • Equity markets revenues increased 25%, driven by growth across all products. Equity derivatives revenues increased reflecting higher client activity, particularly in EMEA and North America. Prime finance revenues increased due to favorable market conditions as well as growth in client balances. Cash equities revenues increased modestly, reflecting higher client activity. Non-interest revenues increased, primarily due to higher principal transactions revenues, reflecting higher client activity. • Securities services revenues increased 6%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues increased 7%, as an increase in fee revenues with both new and existing clients, driven by growth in assets under custody and settlement volumes, was partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Expenses were up 8%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and higher incentive compensation, as well as transactional related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Provisions reflected a benefit of $2.9 billion compared to costs of $5.6 billion in the prior year, driven by an ACL release and lower net credit losses. Net credit losses declined to $396 million from $987 million in the prior year, driven by improvements in portfolio credit quality. The ACL release was $3.3 billion compared to a build of $4.6 billion in the prior year. The release was primarily driven by improvements in portfolio credit quality as well as Citi’s improved macroeconomic outlook. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below. For additional information on trends in ICG’s deposits and loans, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk—Loans” and “—Deposits” below. For additional information on ICG’s corporate credit portfolio, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Corporate Credit” below. For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to ICG’s future results, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” and “Risk Factors” below. 18 GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKING As of December 31, 2021, Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consisted of consumer banking businesses in North America, Latin America (consisting of Citi’s consumer banking business in Mexico) and Asia. GCB provided traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, branded cards and, in the U.S., retail services (for information on consumer market exits related to Latin America GCB and Asia GCB as well as Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above). GCB’s markets in the U.S., Mexico and Asia had a combined 2,154 branches in 19 countries and jurisdictions as of December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2021, GCB had $267 billion in loans and $362 billion in retail banking deposits (excluding approximately $10 billion of loan As of December 31, 2021, North America GCB provided traditional retail banking and branded and retail services card products to retail and small business customers in the U.S. North America GCB’s U.S. cards product portfolio included its proprietary portfolio (Double Cash, Custom Cash, ThankYou and Value cards) and co-branded cards (including, among others, American Airlines and Costco) within branded cards, as well as its co-brand and private label relationships (including, among others, The Home Depot, Sears, Best Buy and Macy’s) within retail services. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of North America GCB’s consumer banking businesses as part of a new reporting segment, Personal Banking and Wealth Management, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above. At December 31, 2021, North America GCB had 658 retail bank branches concentrated in the six key metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also, as of December 31, 2021, North America GCB had $48.1 billion in retail banking loans and $219.3 billion in retail banking deposits. In addition, North America GCB had $133.9 billion in outstanding card loan balances
2021 vs. 2020 Net income was $5.9 billion, compared to a net loss of $46 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit, partially offset by lower revenues and higher expenses. Revenues decreased 9%, reflecting lower revenues in retail banking, branded cards and retail services. Retail banking revenues decreased 7%, as the benefit of strong deposit growth and growth in assets under management (increase of 8%, reflecting favorable market conditions and strong client engagement) was more than offset by lower deposit spreads, as well as lower mortgage revenues. Average deposits increased 17%, driven by higher levels of consumer liquidity due to government stimulus, as well as continued strategic efforts to drive organic growth. Cards revenues decreased 10%. Branded cards revenues decreased 7%, primarily driven by continued higher payment rates, reflecting increased customer liquidity from government stimulus and relief programs, partially offset by higher spending-related revenues. Credit card spend volume increased 21%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. Retail services revenues decreased 15%, primarily driven by lower average loans (down 7%), reflecting higher payment rates from the increased customer liquidity from government stimulus and relief programs, as well as higher partner payments, reflecting higher income sharing as a result of lower net credit losses. For additional information on partner payments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit card spend volume increased 18%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. Expenses increased 6%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments and higher volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Provisions reflected a benefit of $1.0 billion, compared to costs of $9.1 billion in the prior year, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, as well as lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 41%, consisting of lower net credit losses in both branded cards (down 39% to $1.7 billion) and retail services (down 46% to $1.2 billion), primarily driven by lower loan volumes and improved delinquencies, primarily as a result of the higher payment rates. The net ACL release was $4.0 billion, compared to a net build of $4.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting improvement in portfolio credit quality and the continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below. For additional information on North America GCB’s retail banking, and its branded cards and retail services portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below. For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to North America GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.
2021 vs. 2020 Net income was $798 million, compared to $250 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit and modestly lower expenses, partially offset by lower revenues. Revenues decreased 9%, reflecting lower cards and retail banking revenues, largely due to the continued impact of the pandemic. Retail banking revenues decreased 4%, primarily driven by lower loan volumes and deposit spreads, partially offset by growth in assets under management. Average loans decreased 13%, reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity. Assets under management increased 8%, reflecting favorable market conditions, as well as strong client engagement. Cards revenues decreased 21%, primarily driven by lower average loans (down 11%), reflecting higher payment rates. Credit card spend volume increased 16%, reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. Expenses decreased 2%, as productivity savings more than offset continued investments in Citi’s transformation. Provisions of $174 million decreased 87%, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, partially offset by higher net credit losses resulting from pandemic-related charge-offs. The net ACL release was $826 million, compared to a build of $329 million in the prior year. The release reflected an improvement in portfolio credit quality, as well as continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook and lower loan volumes. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below. For additional information on Latin America GCB’s retail banking and its branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below. For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Latin America GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.
ASIA GCB As of December 31, 2021, Asia GCB provided traditional retail banking and branded card products to retail and small business customers. Included within Asia GCB were traditional retail banking and branded card products provided to retail customers in certain EMEA countries, primarily the UAE, Poland and Russia. As discussed above, Citi is pursuing exits of its consumer franchises in 13 markets across Asia and EMEA and will focus its consumer banking franchise in the two regions on four wealth centers: Singapore, Hong Kong, the UAE and London. In 2021, Citi entered into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines, and made a decision to wind down and close its Korea consumer banking business (for additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, in January 2022, Citi entered into agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the 13 exit markets as part of a new reporting segment, Legacy Franchises, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above. At December 31, 2021, on a combined basis, the businesses had 220 retail branches, $58.9 billion in retail banking loans and $117.7 billion in deposits. In addition, the businesses had $13.1 billion in outstanding card loan balances. These amounts exclude approximately $10 billion of loans ($7 billion of retail banking loans and $3 billion of credit card loan balances) and $8 billion of deposits reclassified to held-for-sale (HFS) as a result of Citi’s agreements to sell its consumer banking businesses in Australia and the Philippines. Australia and the Philippines are the only consumer businesses reclassified as HFS at December 31, 2021. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
2021 vs. 2020 Net loss was $675 million, compared to net income of $475 million in the prior year. The net loss included the following items related to the 13 exit markets: (i) approximately $1.1 billion (approximately $0.8 billion aftertax) related to charges incurred from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer banking business; (ii) an approximate $0.7 billion pretax loss ($0.6 billion after-tax) related to the agreement to sell the Australia consumer banking business, largely reflecting the impact of a CTA loss (net of hedges); and (iii) contract modification costs related to the Asia divestitures of $119 million ($98 million after-tax). Excluding the above items, net income was $807 million compared to net income of $475 million in the prior year, reflecting significantly lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. Revenues decreased 16%, including the Australia loss on sale. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, revenues declined 6%, reflecting lower retail banking and cards revenues, largely due to the continued impact of the pandemic, including lower interest rates. Retail banking revenues decreased 22%, including the Australia loss on sale. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, revenues decreased 7%, as growth in both investment revenues and deposits was more than offset by lower deposit spreads due to lower interest rates and lower FX and insurance revenues. Assets under management increased 3%, reflecting the impact of improved market conditions, as well as client engagement. Average deposits increased 6% and average loans decreased 2%. The decline in retail banking revenues was also impacted by a 3% decrease in retail lending revenues, reflecting a decline in personal loans driven by spread compression. Cards revenues decreased 5%, as lower average loans (down 14%, including the reclassification to held-for-sale related to Australia and the Philippines and higher payment rates) were partially offset by higher spending-related revenues (credit card spend volume up 8%), reflecting a continued recovery in sales activity from the pandemic-driven low levels in the prior year. Expenses increased 30%, including approximately $1.2 billion of costs related to the Asia divestitures. Excluding the costs related to the Asia divestitures, expenses increased 6%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments, partially offset by productivity savings. Provisions decreased 74%, primarily driven by a net ACL release compared to a net ACL build in the prior year, as well as lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 10%, primarily reflecting lower cards loan volumes and improved delinquencies. The net ACL release was $376 million, compared to a build of $528 million in the prior year. The release reflected an improvement in portfolio credit quality. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below. For additional information on Asia GCB’s retail banking portfolios and its branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below. For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Asia GCB’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” and “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below
CORPORATE/OTHER Activities not assigned to the operating segments (ICG and GCB) are included in Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2021, Corporate/Other included certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including certain finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses and income taxes, as well as results of Corporate Treasury, certain North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, discontinued operations and other legacy assets. For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure, including the reporting of the North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, discontinued operations and other legacy assets as part of a new reporting segment, Legacy Franchises, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” above. At December 31, 2021, Corporate/Other had $97 billion in assets.
Net income was $215 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher revenues, lower expenses and lower cost of credit. Revenues of $667 million compared to $71 million in the prior year, primarily driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. Expenses decreased 14%, reflecting the absence of a civil money penalty in the prior year and the wind-down of legacy assets, partially offset by increases related to Citi’s transformation. Provisions reflected a net benefit of $369 million, compared to costs of $178 million in the prior year, primarily driven by a net ACL release in the current year ($286 million compared to a net build of $200 million in the prior year). The release reflected the continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below. For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Corporate/Other’s future results, see “Executive Summary” above and “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below.