MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

First Quarter of 2021 Results Summary

First Quarter of 2021—Results Demonstrated Solid 
Performance
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, 
during the first quarter of 2021, Citi demonstrated a solid 
performance, driven by a benefit from cost of credit and a 
constructive capital markets environment:

•  Citi’s earnings increased significantly, reflecting an 

allowance for credit loss (ACL) release of $3.9 billion as 
a result of the improved macroeconomic outlook and 
lower loan balances (see “Cost of Credit” below).
•  Citi’s revenues declined, as continued strength in 

investment banking and equity markets in Institutional 
Clients Group (ICG) was more than offset by the impact 
of lower interest rates and the absence of the prior-year 
period’s mark-to-market gains on loan hedges within 
ICG, as well as lower card volumes in Global Consumer 
Banking (GCB), due to the continued impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.

•  Citi continued to invest in its transformation, including 

infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, 
as well as other strategic investments.

•  Citi had broad-based deposit growth across GCB and 

ICG, reflecting consistent client engagement, with both 
corporate and consumer clients continuing to hold higher 
levels of liquidity, while loans declined reflecting lower 
spending activity in GCB, as well as higher repayments 
across both GCB and ICG.

•  Citi returned $2.7 billion of capital to its shareholders in 
the form of $1.1 billion in dividends and $1.6 billion in 
common share repurchases, totaling approximately 23 
million common shares, while maintaining robust 
regulatory capital ratios.

Citi recently announced strategic actions as part of its 
ongoing strategy refresh, including the announcement of a 
dedicated management team for Citi Global Wealth, as well as 
its decision to focus its consumer banking franchise in Asia 
and EMEA on four wealth centers, in Singapore, Hong Kong, 
the UAE and London. As a result, Citi intends to pursue exits 
of its remaining consumer businesses in the two regions (for 
additional information, see “Citigroup Segments” above and 
“Asia GCB” below).

For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that will or 

could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition during 2021, see each respective business’s 
results of operations and “Forward-Looking Statements” 
below, and “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview,” “Risk Factors” 
and “Managing Global Risk” in Citi’s 2020 Annual Report on 
Form 10-K.

Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $7.9 billion, or $3.62 per 
share, compared to net income of $2.5 billion, or $1.06 per 
share, in the prior-year period. Net income increased 
significantly, driven by the lower cost of credit. Earnings per 
share also increased significantly, reflecting the increase in net 
income, as well as a slight decline in average diluted shares 
outstanding.

Citigroup revenues of $19.3 billion in the first quarter of 

2021 decreased 7% from the prior-year period, primarily 
reflecting lower revenues in both GCB and ICG.

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 8% to $666 
billion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup’s 
end-of-period loans decreased 10%, reflecting lower spend 
activity in GCB, as well as a higher level of repayments in 
both GCB and ICG. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits 
increased 10% to $1.3 trillion. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 7%, 
primarily driven by 17% growth in GCB and 5% growth in 
ICG, reflecting consistent client engagement and elevated 
levels of liquidity in the financial system. (Citi’s results of 
operations and financial condition excluding the impact of FX 
translation are non-GAAP financial measures.)

Expenses
Citigroup operating expenses of $11.1 billion increased 4% 
from the prior-year period, primarily driven by investments in 
Citi’s transformation, including infrastructure supporting its 
risk and control environment, as well as other strategic 
investments, partially offset by efficiency savings. Year-over-
year, GCB operating expenses remained largely unchanged, 
while ICG operating expenses increased 8%.

Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and 
claims was a benefit of $2.1 billion compared to a cost of $7.0 
billion in the prior-year period, reflecting net ACL reserve 
releases across ICG, GCB and Corporate/Other. Citi’s net 
ACL release of $3.9 billion primarily reflected an 
improvement in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook, as well as 
lower loan balances. For additional information on Citi’s 
ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant 
Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below. 
Net credit losses of $1.7 billion decreased 15% from the 
prior-year period. Consumer net credit losses of $1.6 billion 
decreased 19%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes and 
improved delinquencies in the North America cards portfolios. 
Corporate net credit losses increased to $186 million from 
$127 million in the prior-year period.

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and 

corporate credit costs, see each respective business’s results of 
operations and “Credit Risk” below.

3

Capital
Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio was 
11.8% as of March 31, 2021, compared to 11.1% as of March 
31, 2020, both based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches 
framework for determining risk-weighted assets. The increase 
in the ratio reflected higher net income, partially offset by the 
return of capital to common shareholders and an increase in 
risk-weighted assets. 

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of March 

31, 2021 was 7.0%, compared to 6.0% as of March 31, 2020. 
The increase was primarily driven by a decrease in Total 
Leverage Exposure, reflecting the benefit of temporary relief 
granted by the Federal Reserve Board. For additional 
information on Citi’s capital ratios and related components, 
see “Capital Resources” below.

Global Consumer Banking
GCB net income of $2.2 billion compared to a net loss of $740 
million in the prior-year period, reflecting lower cost of credit, 
partially offset by lower revenues. GCB operating expenses of 
$4.4 billion were largely unchanged from the prior-year 
period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, expenses 
decreased 1%, primarily driven by efficiency savings and 
lower volume-related expenses, partially offset by 
investments.

GCB revenues of $7.0 billion decreased 14%. Excluding 

the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 15%, as 
strong deposit growth and momentum in wealth management 
were more than offset by lower card volumes and lower 
interest rates across all regions, reflecting the continued 
impact of the pandemic. 

North America GCB revenues of $4.4 billion decreased 
15%, with lower revenues across Citi-branded cards, Citi retail 
services and retail banking, largely reflecting the continued 
impact of the pandemic. Citi-branded cards revenues of $2.1 
billion decreased 11%, reflecting higher payment rates driving 
lower average loans. Citi retail services revenues of $1.3 
billion decreased 26%, primarily driven by higher partner 
payments as well as lower average loans. Retail banking 
revenues of $1.0 billion decreased 8%, as the benefit of 
stronger deposit volumes was more than offset by lower 
deposit spreads.

Year-over-year, North America GCB average deposits of 

$197 billion increased 22%, average retail banking loans of 
$52 billion increased 3% and assets under management of $82 
billion increased 32%. Average Citi-branded card loans of $79 
billion decreased 15%, while average Citi retail services loans 
of $44 billion decreased 13%, both reflecting higher payment 
rates. Citi-branded card purchase sales of $86 billion were 
largely unchanged, while Citi retail services purchase sales of 
$19 billion increased 4%, reflecting a continued recovery in 
sales activity. For additional information on the results of 
operations of North America GCB for the first quarter of 2021, 
see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” 
below.

International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America 
GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations 
in certain EMEA countries)) of $2.6 billion declined 12% 
versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, international GCB revenues declined 14%, largely 

4

reflecting the continued impact of the pandemic. On this basis, 
Latin America GCB revenues declined 16%, driven by lower 
loan volumes and lower deposit spreads, partially offset by 
strong deposit growth. Asia GCB revenues decreased 12%, as 
lower card revenues and lower deposit spreads were partially 
offset by higher investments revenues and strong deposit 
growth. For additional information on the results of operations 
of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB for the first quarter of 
2021, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global 
Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global 
Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below.

Year-over-year, excluding the impact of FX translation, 
international GCB average deposits of $148 billion increased 
12%, average retail banking loans of $76 billion were largely 
unchanged and assets under management of $141 billion 
increased 23%. On this basis, international GCB average card 
loans of $22 billion decreased 14% and card purchase sales of 
$24 billion decreased 5%, both driven by continued lower 
customer activity related to the pandemic.

Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $5.9 billion increased 64%, driven by 
lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and 
lower revenues. ICG operating expenses increased 8% to $6.3 
billion, primarily driven by investments in infrastructure and 
controls as well as other strategic investments, higher 
compensation costs and volume-driven growth, partially offset 
by efficiency savings.

ICG revenues of $12.2 billion decreased 2%, reflecting a 

7% decrease in Banking revenues, partially offset by a 2% 
increase in Markets and securities services revenues. The 
decrease in Banking revenues included the impact of $81 
million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending 
and the private bank, compared to gains of $816 million 
related to corporate lending and the private bank in the prior-
year period.

 Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, 

Banking revenues of $5.6 billion increased 9%, as higher 
revenues in investment banking, the private bank and 
corporate lending were partially offset by a decline in treasury 
and trade solutions. Investment banking revenues of $2.0 
billion increased 46%, primarily driven by strength in equity 
underwriting and growth in debt underwriting, partially offset 
by a decline in advisory revenues. Advisory revenues 
decreased 27% to $281 million, equity underwriting revenues 
increased significantly to $876 million and debt underwriting 
revenues increased 4% to $816 million.

Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $2.2 billion 
declined 11%, or 10% excluding the impact of FX translation, 
as good client engagement and growth in deposits were more 
than offset by the impact of lower USD and non-USD interest 
rates and reduced commercial cards spend. Private bank 
revenues increased 1% to $1.0 billion. Excluding the impact of 
gains (losses) on loan hedges, private bank revenues increased 
8%, driven by higher loan volumes and spreads, as well as 
higher deposit volumes and managed investments revenue, 
partially offset by lower deposit spreads reflecting the impact 
of lower interest rates. Corporate lending revenues of $411 
million decreased 66%. Excluding the impact of gains (losses) 
on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $483 million 

CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE
Citi’s multiyear transformation efforts continue. This includes 
efforts to effectively implement the October 2020 Federal 
Reserve Board and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) consent orders issued to Citigroup and Citibank, 
respectively. In the second quarter of 2021, Citi made a 
submission to the OCC. Citi continues to work closely with 
the regulators to meet their expectations and intends to submit 
its complete plan to both regulators no later than the third 
quarter of 2021.

For additional information about Citi’s transformation and 

the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” 
and “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” in Citi’s 2020 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K. 

COVID-19 PANDEMIC 
In addition to the widespread public health implications, the 
COVID-19 pandemic has continued to have an extraordinary 
impact on macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and around 
the world. Despite these impacts, Citi has maintained strong 
capital and liquidity positions with consistently strong 
business operations. For information on Citi’s support of its 
colleagues, customers and communities and its management of 
pandemic risks, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” in 
Citigroup’s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

increased 8%, due to the absence of marks on the portfolio 
driven by the elevated market volatility related to the 
pandemic in the prior-year period, partially offset by lower 
loan volumes.

Markets and securities services revenues of $6.7 billion 
increased 2%. Fixed income markets revenues of $4.6 billion 
decreased 5%, primarily reflecting strength in rates and 
currencies in the prior-year period, partially offset by higher 
revenues in spread products. Equity markets revenues of $1.5 
billion increased 26%, driven by strength in cash equities, 
derivatives and prime finance, reflecting solid client activity 
and favorable market conditions. Securities services revenues 
of $653 million increased 1%. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, securities services revenues were unchanged, as 
growth in deposit volumes, assets under custody and 
settlement volumes was offset by lower deposit spreads, given 
lower interest rates. For additional information on the results 
of operations of ICG for the first quarter of 2021, see 
“Institutional Clients Group” below.

Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net loss was $170 million in the first quarter 
of 2021, compared to a net loss of $351 million in the prior-
year period, driven primarily by lower cost of credit, reflecting 
a net ACL release on Citi’s residual legacy portfolio. 
Operating expenses of $413 million declined 1%, as 
investments in infrastructure, risk and controls were largely 
offset by the allocation of certain costs to GCB and ICG. (For 
additional information about these cost allocations, see Note 3 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Corporate/Other revenues of $70 million declined from 

$73 million in the prior-year period, as the impact of lower 
interest rates was offset by the absence of marks versus the 
prior-year period, as well as episodic gains in the current 
quarter. For additional information on the results of operations 
of Corporate/Other for the first quarter of 2021, see 
“Corporate/Other” below.

5

