 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Truist Financial Corporation is a purpose-driven financial services company committed to inspiring and building better lives and communities. Formed by the historic merger of equals of BB&#38;T and SunTrust, Truist has leading market share in many high-growth markets in the country. The Company offers a wide range of services. Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Truist is a top 10 U.S. commercial bank. 

Truist Bank, Truist&#8217;s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,517 offices as of December 31, 2021 and its digital platform. 

Services 

Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. The following table reflects examples of services provided by Truist: ##TABLE_START Table 1: Services &#160; Consumer Services: &#160; Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Credit card lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Consumer finance Commercial finance Home equity lending Commercial lending Home mortgage lending Floor plan lending Insurance Debt and equity derivative services Investment brokerage services Institutional trust services Mobile/online banking Insurance Payment solutions Insurance premium finance Point-of-sale lending International banking Retail deposit products Investment banking and capital markets services Small business lending Leasing Student lending Merchant services Wealth management/private banking Mortgage warehouse lending Payment solutions Real estate lending Supply chain financing ##TABLE_END

Market Area 

The following table reflects Truist&#8217;s deposit market share and branch locations by state: ##TABLE_START Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State &#160; % of Truist&#8217;s Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Florida 22 % 3rd 572 Georgia 19 1st 288 Virginia 15 2nd 365 North Carolina (1) 14 1st 348 Maryland 6 3rd 208 Tennessee 5 5th 130 Pennsylvania 5 9th 157 South Carolina 4 3rd 112 Texas 2 18th 102 West Virginia 2 1st 48 Kentucky 2 4th 62 Washington, D.C. 2 5th 27 Alabama 1 6th 67 New Jersey 1 19th 23 Other states NA NA 8 ##TABLE_END

(1) Deposit market share rank excludes home office deposits. 

(2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2021. 

(3) As of December 31, 2021. 

4 Truist Financial Corporation 

Competition 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Management believes that Truist&#8217;s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company&#8217;s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are highly competitive in meeting clients' expectations. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation within the industry, could result in increased competition from new and existing market participants. Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional, and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies, and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has increased competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to the same regulatory framework as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower costs. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects the Company&#8217;s ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. 

General Business Development 

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist&#8217;s long-term strategy encompasses both organic and inorganic growth, including mergers or acquisitions of complementary financial institutions or other businesses. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy 

Truist&#8217;s merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: 

&#8226; the organization must be a good fit with Truist&#8217;s culture; 

&#8226; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive; 

&#8226; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist&#8217;s risk appetite; and 

&#8226; the transaction must meet Truist&#8217;s financial criteria. 

Truist&#8217;s growth in business, profitability, and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, based on geography and market conditions, and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of banks, insurance agencies, certain lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. 

Regulatory Considerations 

The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. 

The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including technological factors, market changes, climate, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal bank regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. 

Truist Financial Corporation 5 

General 

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination, and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. 

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory, and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, and the NYSE. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Examinations by Truist&#8217;s regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management, and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Following those examinations, Truist and Truist Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of Truist&#8217;s operations. 

Under the FRB's Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must be rated "broadly meets expectations" or "conditionally meets expectations" for each of its three component ratings. 

The results of examinations by any of Truist&#8217;s federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist&#8217;s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. 

FHC Regulation 

Truist has elected to be treated as a FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. While FHCs may engage in certain acquisitions without prior approval of the FRB, any acquisition over $10 billion in assets would require prior approval by the FRB. In order to maintain its status as a FHC, Truist and its affiliated IDI must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct certain business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. Longstanding federal regulations require a FHC to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. In times of severe financial stress, the obligation to serve as a source of strength could cause Truist to commit significant resources to supporting Truist Bank that otherwise would be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

Certain U.S. BHCs, including Truist, are subject to enhanced prudential standards. As such, Truist is subject to more stringent liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning and risk management standards than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. Truist became subject to the FRB's single-counterparty credit limit rule as of July 1, 2020, and is subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures, including exposure resulting from, among other transactions, extensions of credit, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions, investments in securities and derivative transactions, to any other unaffiliated counterparty. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is subject to the standards applicable to Category III banking organizations, which generally include bank holding companies with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures. 

6 Truist Financial Corporation 

Resolution Planning 

As a Category III banking organization, Truist is required to submit a resolution plan every three years. Later resolution plans under this rule will alternate between full resolution plans and targeted resolution plans. The FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate Truist&#8217;s resolution plan. The FRB and FDIC are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if the agencies determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could require the banking organization to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. Truist submitted its inaugural resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC in September 2021, which is currently under review. 

In addition, Truist Bank is required by an FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan although that requirement has been paused since 2018. The FDIC issued a policy statement in June 2021 announcing that it will resume requiring bank level resolution plans for large banks, including Truist Bank, and that such bank-level resolution plans will have more streamlined content requirements than previous requirements. Truist Bank will be required to submit a bank-level resolution plan every three years. During 2021, Truist Bank was informed by the FDIC that its next resolution plan will be due on or before December 1, 2022. The FDIC also clarified the content requirements of the next resolution plan that Truist Bank is required to submit. 

Capital Requirements 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements established by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These requirements are based on the capital framework developed by the BCBS for strengthening the regulation, supervision, and risk management of banks under Basel III rules, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist&#8217;s operations or financial condition. These actions could include requiring Truist commit capital to Truist Bank in abnormal operating conditions which would otherwise be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist&#8217;s or Truist Bank's ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval for acquisitions. 

In October 2019, the federal banking regulators adopted rules that revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking organizations, including Truist and Truist Bank, and that tailored the application of the FRB's enhanced prudential standards to large banking organizations. Under these rules, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to the standards applicable to "Category III" banking organizations. 

Under the regulatory capital rules, Truist&#8217;s and Truist Bank's assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions' risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders' equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

Truist Financial Corporation 7 

In March 2020, the FRB adopted a final rule that integrates its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with existing regulatory capital requirements. For risk-based capital requirements for certain large BHCs, including Truist, the SCB replaced the capital conservation buffer, which was required to be met in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and repurchases of any Tier 1 capital instrument, such as common and qualifying preferred stock, and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. The SCB is equal to the greater of (i) the difference between Truist&#8217;s starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of its planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. The FRB assigned Truist an SCB of 2.5%, which is effective from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022, at which point a revised SCB will be calculated and provided to Truist. Although the final rule continues to require that the firm describe its planned capital distributions in its CCAR capital plan, Truist is no longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capital plan. Instead, Truist is subject to automatic distribution limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements, which include the SCB. 

For certain large banking organizations, the SCB could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist and Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.0%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.0% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the "Market Risk" section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to market risk management. 

In addition, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets, net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions. Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure of derivative contracts. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB adopted a rule that temporarily changed the supplementary leverage ratio to exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of a firm's leverage exposure, which expired March 31, 2021 and previously benefited Truist&#8217;s supplementary leverage ratio by approximately 20 basis points. The FRB announced plans to invite public comment on several potential supplementary leverage ratio modifications to ensure that the supplementary leverage ratio remains effective in an environment of higher reserves, though such proposal has not been published as of the date of this report. 

The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater to meet the well-capitalized minimum. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC's particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. Refer to the &#8220;Capital&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for disclosures containing the minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations. 

In 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule that permits banking organizations that implement CECL before the end of 2020 to elect to follow the three-year transition available under the prior rule or a new five-year transition to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital. Under the five-year transition, the banking organization would defer for two years 100% of the day-one effect of adopting CECL and 25% of the cumulative increase or decrease in the allowance for credit losses since adoption of CECL. Following the first two years, the electing organization will phase out the aggregate capital effects over the next three years consistent with the transition in the original three-year transition rule. Truist has elected to use the five-year transition to phase in the impacts of CECL on regulatory capital. 

The U.S. banking agencies have adopted a final rule altering the definition of eligible retained income. Under the final rule, eligible retained income is the greater of a firm's (i) net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters. This definition applies with respect to all of Truist&#8217;s capital requirements. 

8 Truist Financial Corporation 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

In addition to the regulatory capital requirements, under the FRB's CCAR process, Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. 

The FRB's CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework also require BHCs subject to Category III standards, such as Truist, to conduct company-run stress tests and submit to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. The company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distribution assumptions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios intended to stress the unique risk profile of the institution. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing internal supervisory models on the supervisory stress scenarios. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis. 

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 5, 2022. The FRB is required to announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2022. 

In addition to the CCAR stress testing for Truist, Truist Bank conducts annual company-run stress tests. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. 

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC's 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

Effective July 2021, Truist became subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which are designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR, calculated as the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding, must exceed 1.0x. Available stable funding represents a weighted measure of a company's funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company's equity and liabilities based on their expected stability. Required Stable Funding is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III banking organization, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to an NSFR requirement equal to 85% of the full requirement. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company. 

The Parent Company&#8217;s ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC's net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities, is subject to the FRB's automatic restrictions on capital distributions under the FRB's capital rules. Truist&#8217;s risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements are discussed below in the "Capital Requirements" section. 

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

Truist Financial Corporation 9 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies are required to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized." To be considered "well-capitalized," an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth, or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company's subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC, in its capacity as a source of strength would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary's capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments. 

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm's length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Acquisitions 

Truist is subject to numerous laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations' compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, subject to variation by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the ratio of the resulting company's liabilities exceeds 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

The standards by which bank and financial institution acquisitions are evaluated are under review. Among other things, in July 2021, an executive order was issued on competition that requires the banking agencies to review the standards for bank mergers, and the Department of Justice has announced that it is reviewing its bank merger guidelines. Additionally, some members of Congressional leadership are closely tracking the standards for bank mergers and can be expected to engage in hearings and public statements in connection with any pending or future merger activity. These reviews and engagements could change the standards for bank mergers. 

10 Truist Financial Corporation 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order, or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties, or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. 

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

DIF Assessments 

Truist Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

As of September 30, 2021, the DIF reserve ratio was 1.27%. The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan on September 15, 2020, to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed 1.35% within eight years. The FDIC's restoration plan projects the reserve ratio to exceed 1.35% without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate, subject to ongoing monitoring over the next eight years. The FDIC could increase the deposit insurance assessments for certain insured depository institutions, including Truist Bank, if the DIF reserve ratio is not restored as projected. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student, and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The federal consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB's supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, HMDA, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. 

During November 2019, SunTrust Bank entered into a consent order with the FRB, relating to certain identified legacy compliance issues, and requiring certain remediation actions and the verification of such actions regarding the identified issues. In June 2021, the FDIC terminated this consent order. 

Truist Financial Corporation 11 

Patriot Act 

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection, and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions' operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent, and report money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

BSA/AML and Sanctions 

Truist continues to be subject to examinations and ongoing monitoring to assess compliance with BSA/AML laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the financial system by requiring financial institutions to develop and implement BSA/AML programs designed to detect, deter, and prevent the use of the financial system to facilitate the funding of illicit and criminal activities. In addition, Truist is also subject to prohibitions with respect to engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, and countries as prohibited by the OFAC regulator of the U.S. Treasury. 

Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal financial institution regulators, OFAC and law enforcement agencies with respect to AML laws and regulations. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against financial institutions and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cyber Security 

Various federal and state laws and regulations contain extensive data privacy and cybersecurity provisions, and the regulatory framework for data privacy and cybersecurity is rapidly evolving. The FRB, FDIC, and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement, and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber security through guidance, examinations, and regulations. 

At the federal level, the GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such personal information except as provided in the banking subsidiary's policies and procedures. 

In addition, in November 2021, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC adopted a new regulation that, among other things, requires a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a "computer-security incident" that the banking organization believes in good faith could materially disrupt or degrade its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which went into effect on January 1, 2020. Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and proposed legislation are still subject to revision or formal guidance and they may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company&#8217;s understanding. California voters also recently passed the California Privacy Rights Act, which will take effect on January 1, 2023, and significantly modifies the California Consumer Privacy Act, including by imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding California consumers' rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring Truist to incur additional costs to comply. Truist may be subject to similar laws in other states where Truist does business or in states where Truist may collect personal information of residents. 

12 Truist Financial Corporation 

In addition, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by Truist. 

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank. Truist is also subject to rules and regulations issued by the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including with respect to data privacy and cybersecurity. Moreover, the U.S. Congress has recently considered, and is currently considering various proposals for more comprehensive data privacy and cybersecurity legislation, to which we may be subject if passed. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Truist Bank's primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: "Outstanding," "Satisfactory," "Needs to Improve," or "Substantial Noncompliance." This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application. In 2021, Truist received the highest possible overall rating of "Outstanding" from the FDIC for its most recent CRA examination period. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer's choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for "excessive or chronic" client use and undertake "meaningful and effective" follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts, and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. In 2022, Truist announced a first-of-its-kind approach to the checking account experience, designed to address clients&#8217; direct feedback, which includes no overdraft fees. Refer to the &#8220;Executive Overview&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for additional information on the new program. 

Volcker Rule 

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading activities, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds. 

In June 2020, the regulatory agencies charged with implementing the Volcker Rule finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule's restrictions on ownership interests in and relationships with covered funds. Among other things, these amendments permit banking entities to have relationships with and offer additional financial services to additional types of funds and investment vehicles. These requirements are not expected to have a material impact on Truist&#8217;s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency, and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC's regulatory regime, including trade reporting and record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. 

Truist Financial Corporation 13 

In November 2021, Truist Bank conditionally registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. As a result, Truist Bank&#8217;s security-based swaps business is now subject to requirements that are similar to the CFTC rules applicable to swap dealers, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, and potentially clearing and exchange trading requirements. 

Truist Bank's uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements. The variation margin requirements are currently in effect and the initial margin requirements are phasing in over a period of six years and will be fully phased-in on September 1, 2022, depending on the level of derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 

Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist&#8217;s ability to issue new securities expeditiously. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history, and supervisory concerns. 

In June 2019, the SEC finalized Regulation Best Interest, which imposes a new standard of conduct on SEC-registered broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers. In addition, the SEC finalized a new summary disclosure form that broker-dealers and investment advisers must provide to retail customers. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries were required to comply with these requirements, as applicable, as of June 2020. 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. Compliance with the rule was originally required by April 1, 2020. Truist became subject to the rules related to recordkeeping requirements and timely deposit insurance as of April 1, 2021, under the optional one-year extension. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NYSE, various taxing authorities, and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information on business and accounting practices from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators, and other regulatory authorities. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

COVID-19 Developments 

In response to disruptions in economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, federal and state governments and agencies and government-sponsored enterprises have taken a variety of actions to support people and entities affected by the pandemic, including the passage of the CARES Act in March 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 in December 2020, and the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 in March 2021, among others. For example, the CARES Act established several programs with the Small Business Administration, including the PPP, to provide loans to small businesses. 

The CARES Act also provided financial institutions with the option to suspend certain GAAP requirements for coronavirus-related loan modifications that would otherwise constitute a TDR and further required the federal banking agencies to defer to financial institutions' determinations in making such suspensions, which was extended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 until January 1, 2022. Subsequent to January 1, 2022, all modifications to loan agreements will be evaluated in accordance with all applicable GAAP requirements. 

14 Truist Financial Corporation 

Human Capital 

Truist recognizes that attracting the best talent, making investments in teammates, caring to better understand their backgrounds and experiences, and helping to bolster their career trajectory ultimately leads to more engaged and productive teammates, which can contribute to better business outcomes for Truist overall. Truist aims to provide teammates an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates to learn, grow, and have meaningful careers. 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees Truist&#8217;s compensation and benefit programs consistent with its compensation philosophy. The Committee provides guidance on Truist&#8217;s human capital strategy (including DEI, teammate engagement, talent development, and succession management) to assist in attracting, developing, and retaining qualified teammates. 

Truist&#8217;s Enterprise Ethics Risk Office partners with a broad group of internal stakeholders to set standards for teammate conduct and facilitate the timely intake and routing of teammate concerns for review. As part of that effort, the team seeks to identify trends reflecting on organizational culture and/or operational challenges and to develop solutions. The results of these efforts are regularly shared with Truist&#8217;s Executive-Level Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee and its Board of Directors. 

The following table presents a summary of teammates as of December 31, 2021: ##TABLE_START Table 3: Teammate Summary # of Teammates % of Population Full-Time 50,283 95.5 % Part-Time 2,358 4.5 Total 52,641 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Leveraging a skilled contingent workforce is an important part of Truist&#8217;s overall workforce strategy. It has enabled Truist the ability to drive process and system integrations during the Merger period while continuing to deliver on Truist&#8217;s core purpose. 

Diversity, Equity &#38; Inclusion 

Truist is committed to continuing to build a culture where teammates feel a sense of belonging and where they can bring their best selves to work. Truist champions DEI and is dedicated to increasing access to opportunities for all. To deliver on Truist&#8217;s DEI objectives, Truist&#8217;s dedicated DEI Office focuses on attracting, developing and advancing diverse representation at key levels of the Company, embedding DEI in all of Truist&#8217;s business strategies, and investing in diverse communities. The DEI Office partners with groups across Truist to develop tools, resources, and programs to positively influence the societal impact of clients, teammates, communities, and stakeholders. Truist established a diversity recruiting team focused on increasing the diversity of teammates and leaders in key positions across the Company. Ensuring Truist attracts, develops, and retains diverse, talented, and caring people is critical to the Company&#8217;s overall success. 

Truist recognizes that ethnically diverse talent have historically been underrepresented in leadership positions at financial services companies. The Company committed to increasing its racially and ethnically diverse teammates among senior leadership positions to 15% and achieved this goal one year early with racially and ethnically diverse teammates holding 15.1% of senior leadership positions as of December 31, 2021. 

The following table presents a summary of diversity statistics as of December 31, 2020 using the category classifications on the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's EEO-1 report, which differ from those recognized internally by Truist. Truist&#8217;s leadership diversity commitment was based on Truist&#8217;s internal senior leader category. The Truist senior leader category is made up of a broader population than the EEO-1 Executive/Senior-Level Manager category. ##TABLE_START Table 4: Teammate Diversity (1) Gender Race Female Male Caucasian Black/African American Hispanic or Latino Asian American Indian/Alaska Native Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Two or More Races Executive Leadership &#38; senior leaders 26.8 % 73.2 % 84.4 % 5.9 % 4.5 % 3.7 % 0.4 % &#8212; % 1.1 % First / mid-level managers 54.3 45.7 75.2 12.0 6.7 4.2 0.4 0.2 1.3 Professionals 50.8 49.2 65.4 16.7 6.8 8.7 0.3 0.3 1.8 All others 76.7 23.3 59.2 21.4 12.3 3.8 0.8 0.3 2.2 All teammates 64.3 35.7 64.1 18.2 9.5 5.4 0.6 0.3 1.9 ##TABLE_END

(1) Source: EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2020. All others includes sales workers and administrative support EEO-1 job categories. 

Truist Financial Corporation 15 

Talent Development 

Truist teammates have access to extensive programs and benefits for career advancement. Teammates can partner with a certified coach to help them focus, create clear goals, and stay accountable to achieving those goals. Truist also provides tuition assistance so teammates can continue formal education by seeking degrees that align with career goals. 

In addition to career development opportunities, Truist provides a differentiated learning experience to new and existing teammates, including formal onboarding training to prepare new teammates through learning content libraries for individual development needs. Truist provides a wide range of forums for learning that include relevant current trends and emerging skills in the marketplace. 

Truist also has a Leadership Institute, a uniquely qualified leadership development center that creates dynamic leaders and increases teammate retention. Truist strives to succeed in maximizing the potential in every individual and instilling values and behaviors that create a strong culture of leadership. The Truist Leadership Institute combines expert psychological insight with lessons learned throughout its 60-year history of leadership development. 

Compensation and Total Rewards 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Total Rewards enable its Purpose, Mission, and Values, specifically Truist&#8217;s mission to create an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates. Truist places special emphasis on providing compensation and benefits that foster an environment of economic security and social mobility for its teammates. 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s total rewards build better lives for teammates today and in the future 

&#8226; As teammates grow and develop meaningful careers, their compensation and long term earning potential grows 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s total rewards promote the value of Caring and help teammates find happiness in their lives 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s pay for performance approach ensures that when clients win, teammates win 

Truist&#8217;s benefits program includes a company-funded pension plan, a 401(k) Plan, Truist Momentum financial well-being education, healthcare and insurance benefits, Lifeforce lifestyle program, wellness and mental well-being support, paid time off, teammate and family resources such as child-care centers and family care resources, tuition assistance and on-site services such as health centers and fitness centers. A detailed overview on all of the benefits Truist offers can be found on Truist&#8217;s Benefits website, Benefits.Truist.com . 

Truist provides market competitive and transparent total rewards that attract and retain talent while enabling Truist&#8217;s short- and long-term performance. Truist provides compensation and rewards that achieve positive business results, are based on market and internal assessment, and are aligned with risk management principles. In 2021 Truist conducted its first pay equity study. Factoring teammates&#8217; roles, levels of experience, and geography, the average salary of female teammates is 99% of male teammates, and the average salary of racially diverse teammates is 100% of non-racially diverse teammates. 

Health, Safety, and Wellness and COVID-19 

The health and safety of teammates are paramount and they have guided Truist&#8217;s responses to the COVID-19 crisis. Following a shift of operations where Truist enabled the majority of its workforce to work remotely, a Together Safely Committee created an approach that focused first on safety, followed by defining new working models in a post-pandemic era that could bring teammates back together. Three work styles were formalized &#8211; Onsite, Hybrid, and Remote. Truist anticipates that the majority of teammates will operate in the hybrid work style. For teammates who continued to work in branches and offices, Truist automated the COVID-19 case management process to optimize support of teammates that tested positive, and to limit business disruption. As COVID-19 vaccines rolled out in 2021, Truist took a direct approach to educate teammates through a Myth Busters campaign and quickly moved forward with encouraging all teammates to seek vaccination. Truist continued to rely on the guidance and recommendations put forth by CDC, OSHA, and local governments. In 2021, Truist continued to provide all teammates with resources to support their physical and mental well-being during this time. 

16 Truist Financial Corporation 

Website Access to Truist&#8217;s Filings with the SEC 

Truist&#8217;s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist&#8217;s SEC filings are also available through the SEC's website at sec.gov. 

Corporate Governance 

Information with respect to Truist&#8217;s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com . Specifically, the Company makes available on its Investor Relations website, under the heading "Governance &#38; Responsibility" (i) its codes of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and teammates, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of the Company&#8217;s Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of any of its codes of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the "Governance &#38; Responsibility" section of its Investor Relations website. 

Truist Financial Corporation 17 

Executive Officers (as of December 31, 2021) ##TABLE_START Executive Officer Recent Work Experience Years of Service Age William H. Rogers, Jr. 

President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2021. President and Chief Operating Officer from December 2019 to September 2021. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. SunTrust CEO from June 2011 to January 2012. 

41* 64 President and Chief Executive Officer Daryl N. Bible Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. 14 60 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer &#160; Scott Case Chief Information Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Information Officer since February 2018. Chief Information Officer at Ciox Health from 2017 to 2018. Chief Technology Officer of SunTrust Consumer Segment from 2015 to 2017. 6* 51 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III 

Vice Chair since September 2021. Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. SunTrust Commercial and Business Banking Executive from 2013 to 2017. 

16* 59 Vice Chair Ellen M. Fitzsimmons 

Chief Legal Officer and Head of Public Affairs since September 2021. Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2018. General Counsel and Head of Public Affairs of CSX Corporation from 2003 to 2017. 

4* 61 Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Head of Public Affairs John M. Howard Chief Insurance Officer since September 2021. President and Chief Executive Officer of Truist Insurance Holdings from January 2016 to August 2021. 9 55 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Insurance Officer 

&#160; Michael B. Maguire Chief National Consumer Finance Services and Payments Officer since September 2021. Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive. 19* 43 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief National Consumer Finance Services and Payments Officer 

Kimberly Moore-Wright, 

Chief Teammate Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity since September 2021. Chief Human Resources Officer from December 2019 to August 2021. Director of Marketing and Digital Sales from January 2016 to November 2019. Director of Retail and Commercial Marketing Strategy from January 2012 to December 2015. 

26 48 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Teammate Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity Brant J. Standridge 

Chief Retail Community Banking Officer since September 2021. Head of Retail Community Banking from December 2019 to August 2021. President, Retail Banking from January 2018 to December 2019. Lending Group Manager from August 2016 to December 2017. Regional President in Texas from January 2015 to August 2016. 

23 46 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Retail Community Banking Officer Clarke R. Starnes III Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. 39 62 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer &#160; Joseph M. Thompson Chief Wealth Officer since September 2021. Head of Truist Wealth from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Head of Private Wealth Management since August 2014. 28* 55 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Wealth Officer David H. Weaver 

Chief Commercial Community Banking Officer since September 2021. Head of Commercial Community Banking from December 2019 to August 2021. President, Community Banking from December 2016 to December 2019. Community Banking Group Executive from 2010 to December 2016. 

26 55 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Community Banking Officer &#160; Dont&#225; L. Wilson 

Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer since November 2018. Chief Client Experience Officer from August 2016 to November 2018. Regional President in Georgia from December 2014 to July 2016. 

23 45 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer ##TABLE_END

* Reflects combined years of service at Truist and SunTrust. 

18 Truist Financial Corporation 

