Market Risk
Market risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or economic value arising from changes in the market value of portfolios,
securities, or other financial instruments. Market risk results from changes in the level, volatility, or correlations among financial market risk
factors or prices, including interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity, and commodity prices.
Effective management of market risk is essential to achieving Truist’s strategic financial objectives. Truist’s most significant market risk
exposure is to interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also results from underlying product liquidity risk, price risk, and
volatility risk in Truist’s business units. Interest rate risk results from differences between the timing of rate changes and the timing of cash
flows associated with assets and liabilities (re-pricing risk); from changing rate relationships among different yield curves affecting bank
activities (basis risk); from changing rate relationships across the spectrum of maturities (yield curve risk); and from interest-related options
inherently embedded in bank products (options risk).
The primary objectives of effective market risk management are to minimize adverse effects from changes in market risk factors on net
interest income, net income, and capital, and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. At
Truist, market risk management also includes the enterprise-wide IPV function.
Interest Rate Market Risk
As a financial institution, Truist is exposed to interest rate risk from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet positions. To keep net interest
margin as stable as possible, Truist actively manages its interest rate risk exposure through the strategic repricing of its assets and liabilities,
taking into account the volumes, maturities, and mix. Truist primarily uses three methods to measure and monitor its interest rate risk: (i)
simulations of possible changes to net interest income over the next two years based on gradual changes in interest rates; (ii) analysis of
interest rate shock scenarios; and (iii) analysis of economic value of equity based on changes in interest rates.
The Company’s simulation model takes into account assumptions related to prepayment trends, using a combination of market data and
internal historical experiences for deposits and loans, as well as scheduled maturities and payments, and the expected outlook for the
economy and interest rates. These assumptions are reviewed and adjusted monthly to reflect changes in current interest rates compared to
the rates applicable to Truist’s assets and liabilities. The model also considers Truist’s current and prospective liquidity position, current
balance sheet volumes, projected growth and/or contractions, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance.
Deposit betas (the sensitivity of deposit rate changes relative to market rate changes) are an important assumption in the interest rate risk
modeling process. Truist applies deposit beta assumptions to non-maturity interest-bearing deposit accounts when determining its interest
rate sensitivity. Non-maturity, interest-bearing deposit accounts include interest checking accounts, savings accounts, and money market
accounts that do not have a contractual maturity. Truist utilizes a tiered deposit beta assumption framework that accounts for historically
observed behaviors of clients and the Company. The deposit beta assumptions are reduced when interest rates are exceptionally low and
competition for interest-bearing deposits is commensurately low. As interest rates rise, the deposit beta assumptions also rise to reflect
increasing competition among banks as well as increased client demand for interest-bearing deposits. Truist applies an average deposit beta
of approximately 25% for the first 100 basis point increase in the Federal funds rate, approximately 35% for the second 100 basis point
increase, and approximately 50% for any additional increases. Truist also regularly conducts sensitivity analyses on other key variables,
including noninterest-bearing deposits, to determine the impact these variables could have on the Company’s interest rate risk position. The
predictive value of the simulation model depends upon the accuracy of the assumptions, but management believes that it provides helpful
information for the management of interest rate risk.
64 Truist Financial Corporation
The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next
12 months assuming a gradual change in interest rates as described below.
Table 32: Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis
Interest Rate Scenario Annualized Hypothetical Percentage Change in Net
Interest Income Gradual Change in
Prime Rate (bps)
Prime Rate
Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2020
Up 100 4.25 % 4.25 % 5.18 % 4.18 %
Up 50 3.75 3.75 3.94 3.24
No Change 3.25 3.25 — —
Down 25 (1) 3.00 3.00 (1.28) (1.82)
Down 50 (1) 2.75 2.75 (1.78) (2.09)
(1) The Down 25 and 50 rates are floored at one basis point and may not reflect Down 25 and 50 basis points for all rate indices.
Truist has established parameters related to interest rate sensitivity measures that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest
income under different interest rate scenarios that would result in an escalation to the Board. The following parameters and interest rate
scenarios are considered Truist’s primary measures of interest rate risk:
• Maximum decrease in net interest income of 7.5% for the next 12 months assuming a 25 basis point change in interest rates each
quarter for four quarters; and a
• Maximum decrease in net interest income of 10% for the next 12 months assuming an immediate 100 basis point parallel shock
change in interest rates. This interest rate shock analysis is designed to create an outer bound of acceptable interest rate risk.
Management considers how the interest rate risk position could be impacted by changes in balance sheet mix. Liquidity in the banking
industry has been very strong during the current economic cycle. Much of this liquidity increase has resulted in growth in noninterest-bearing
demand deposits. Consistent with the industry, Truist has seen a significant increase in this funding source. The behavior of these deposits is
one of the most important assumptions used in determining the interest rate risk position of Truist. A decrease in the amount of these
deposits in the future would reduce the asset sensitivity of Truist’s balance sheet because the Company may increase interest-bearing funds
to offset the loss of this advantageous funding source. Alternatively, the Company may reduce the size of its investment portfolio to offset the
loss of noninterest-bearing demand deposits to limit the impact on the balance sheet’s asset sensitivity.
The following table shows the results of Truist’s interest-rate sensitivity position assuming the loss of demand deposits and an associated
increase in managed rate deposits under various scenarios. For purposes of this analysis, Truist modeled the incremental beta of managed
rate deposits for the replacement of the demand deposits at 100%.
Table 33: Deposit Mix Sensitivity Analysis
Gradual Change in Rates
(bps)
Base Scenario at December
31, 2021 (1)
Results Assuming a Decrease in Noninterest-Bearing
Demand Deposits
$20 Billion $40 Billion
Up 100 5.18 % 4.33 % 3.49 %
Up 50 3.94 3.32 2.70
(1) The base scenario is equal to the annualized hypothetical percentage change in net interest income at December 31, 2021 as presented
in the preceding table.
Truist uses financial instruments including derivatives to manage interest rate risk related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs, and
mortgage banking operations, long-term debt, and other funding sources. Truist hedges a portion of its AFS securities to reduce mark-tomarket volatility within AOCI and also to increase its overall asset sensitivity position. Truist also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on
behalf of its clients and as part of associated hedging activities. As of December 31, 2021, Truist had derivative financial instruments
outstanding with notional amounts totaling $300.6 billion, with an associated net fair value of $1.8 billion. See “Note 19. Derivative Financial
Instruments” for additional disclosures.
Truist Financial Corporation 65
LIBOR Transition
LIBOR in its current form will no longer be available after 2021. For most tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR, the administrator of LIBOR extended
publication until June 30, 2023. Tenors used infrequently by Truist, including one week and two month U.S. dollar LIBOR and all non-U.S.
dollar LIBOR, ceased publication at December 31, 2021, based on the October 20, 2021 interagency Joint Statement on Managing the
LIBOR transition. To prepare for the transition to an alternative reference rate, management formed a cross-functional project team to
address the LIBOR transition. The project team performed an assessment to identify the potential risks related to the transition from LIBOR
to a new index or multiple indices and provides updates to Executive Leadership and the Board. As of December 2021, Truist had
outstanding LIBOR-based instruments that mature after June 30, 2023, including: loan and lease exposures totaling approximately $151
billion, notional derivative exposure totaling approximately $131 billion, long-term debt of $1.1 billion, and preferred stock of $1.5 billion.
These amounts are inclusive of remediated contracts, which contain adequate fallback language for the transition.
Contract fallback language for existing loans and leases has largely been reviewed and certain contracts will require amendments to support
the transition away from LIBOR. For impacted lines of business, the Company has started remediating these contracts to include
standardized fallback language. Current fallback language used for new, renewed, and modified contracts is generally consistent with ARRC
recommendations and includes use of “hardwired fallback” language, where appropriate.
The progress and approach to remediation will vary based on the type of contract and existing language used in the agreement. For
commercial lending and general consumer lending, a significant number of remaining LIBOR contracts will require client outreach and
remediation. Efforts to amend and remediate contracts, excluding mortgage and student loans, that mature post June 30, 2023 ($141 billion)
will be accelerated in 2022. Truist has determined that adjustable rate mortgage products ($4.3 billion) have consistent and adequate fallback
language to transition away from LIBOR in line with industry expectations; therefore, these contracts will not require remediation.
Remediation of student loans ($6.1 billion) will depend on guidance from the Department of Education and recent guidance from the CFPB to
allow transition to “comparable rates,” including SOFR or Prime. Derivatives will utilize recent New York legislation to support transition of
trades to follow the ISDA Protocol (where counterparties have not already adhered to the protocol). Truist will evaluate legislation being
considered in 2022 to further support the transition away from LIBOR. This legislation may provide additional administrative benefit for a
small portion of the commercial and consumer lending portfolios where contracts do not contain fallback language.
Training has been provided for impacted teammates and will continue during 2022. Truist will continue to provide timely notices and
information to impacted clients about the transition during 2022 and the first half of 2023. Truist continues to manage the impact of these
contracts and other financial instruments, systems implications, hedging strategies, and related operational and market risks on established
project plans for business and operational readiness to support the transition.
As of December 31, 2021, Truist ceased entering into new contracts with a LIBOR reference rate for all product offerings, except on a limited
basis, as permissible. Market risks associated with this change are dependent on the alternative reference rates available and market
conditions as of the transition. The Company is actively using SOFR as a reference rate and has originated approximately $18.3 billion of
loans, issued $5.0 billion of long-term debt, and has $44.9 billion in notional derivative exposure using this alternative reference rate as of
December 31, 2021. Truist expects SOFR to become a more commonly-used pricing benchmark across the industry and will continue to offer
additional SOFR based products during 2022. Additional alternative reference rates, such as Bloomberg Short Term Bank Yield will be
supported based on market demand. Other emerging credit sensitive rates will be evaluated as additional alternatives for LIBOR based on
market developments. For a further discussion of the various risks associated with the potential cessation of LIBOR and the transition to
alternative reference rates, refer to the section titled “Item1A. Risk Factors.”
Market risk from trading activities
As a financial intermediary, Truist provides its clients access to derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets, which generate market
risks. Trading market risk is managed using a comprehensive risk management approach, which includes measuring risk using VaR, stress
testing, and sensitivity analysis. Risk metrics are monitored against a suite of limits on a daily basis at both the trading desk level and at the
aggregate portfolio level, which is intended to ensure that exposures are in line with Truist’s risk appetite.
Truist is also subject to risk-based capital guidelines for market risk under the Market Risk Rule.
66 Truist Financial Corporation
Covered Trading Positions
Covered positions subject to the Market Risk Rule include trading assets and liabilities, specifically those held for the purpose of short-term
resale or with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements or to lock in arbitrage profits. Truist’s trading
portfolio of covered positions results primarily from market making and underwriting services for the Company’s clients, as well as associated
risk mitigating hedging activity. The trading portfolio, measured in terms of VaR, consists primarily of four sub-portfolios of covered positions:
(i) credit trading, (ii) fixed income securities, (iii) interest rate derivatives, and (iv) equity derivatives. As a market maker across different asset
classes, Truist’s trading portfolio also contains other sub-portfolios, including foreign exchange, loan trading, and commodity derivatives;
however, these portfolios do not generate material trading risk exposures.
Valuation policies and methodologies exist for all trading positions. Additionally, these positions are subject to independent price verification.
See “Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments,” “Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures,” and “Critical Accounting Policies” herein for discussion of
valuation policies and methodologies.
Securitizations
As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate market value of on-balance sheet securitization positions subject to the Market Risk Rule was $51
million, all of which were non-agency asset backed securities positions. Consistent with the Market Risk Rule requirements, the Company
performs pre-purchase due diligence on each securitization position to identify the characteristics including, but not limited to, deal structure
and the asset quality of the underlying assets, that materially affect valuation and performance. Securitization positions are subject to Truist’s
comprehensive risk management framework, which includes daily monitoring against a suite of limits. There were no off-balance sheet
securitization positions during the reporting period.
Correlation Trading Positions
The trading portfolio of covered positions did not contain any correlation trading positions as of December 31, 2021.
VaR-Based Measures
VaR measures the potential loss of a given position or portfolio of positions at a specified confidence level and time horizon. Truist utilizes a
historical VaR methodology to measure and aggregate risks across its covered trading positions. For risk management purposes, the VaR
calculation is based on a historical simulation approach and measures the potential trading losses using a one-day holding period at a onetail, 99% confidence level. For Market Risk Rule purposes, the Company calculates VaR using a 10-day holding period and a 99%
confidence level. Due to inherent limitations of the VaR methodology, such as the assumption that past market behavior is indicative of future
market performance, VaR is only one of several tools used to measure and manage market risk. Other tools used to actively manage market
risk include stress testing, scenario analysis, and stop loss limits.
The trading portfolio’s VaR profile is influenced by a variety of factors, including the size and composition of the portfolio, market volatility, and
the correlation between different positions. A portfolio of trading positions is typically less risky than the sum of the risk from each of the
individual sub-portfolios, because, under normal market conditions, risk within each category partially offsets the exposure to other risk
categories. The following table summarizes certain VaR-based measures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. During
2021, average one and ten day VaR measures declined from last year as heightened market volatility experienced during March 2020 aged
out of the 12-month VaR look-back window.
Table 34: VaR-based Measures
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2020
(Dollars in millions) 10-Day Holding Period 1-Day Holding Period 10-Day Holding Period 1-Day Holding Period
VaR-based Measures:
Maximum $ 68 $ 16 $ 65 $ 11
Average 14 4 27 6
Minimum 3 1 3 1
Period-end 13 5 28 7
VaR by Risk Class:
Interest Rate Risk 3 2
Credit Spread Risk 5 9
Equity Price Risk 1 2
Foreign Exchange Risk — —
Portfolio Diversification (5) (5)
Period-end 5 7
Truist Financial Corporation 67
Stressed VaR-based measures
Stressed VaR, another component of market risk capital, is calculated using the same internal models as used for the VaR-based measure.
Stressed VaR is calculated over a ten-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level and employs a historical simulation approach
based on a continuous twelve-month historical window selected to reflect a period of significant financial stress for the Company’s trading
portfolio. The following table summarizes Stressed VaR-based measures:
Table 35: Stressed VaR-based Measures - 10 Day Holding Period
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Maximum $ 118 $ 65
Average 59 33
Minimum 26 13
Period-end 65 28
Compared to the prior year, stressed VaR measures increased in 2021 primarily due to the normalization of market making inventory levels
this year compared to 2020 when inventory levels were lower due to the market volatility.
Specific Risk Measures
Specific risk is a measure of idiosyncratic risk that could result from risk factors other than broad market movements (e.g. default, event
risks). The Market Risk Rule provides fixed risk weights under a standardized measurement method while also allowing a model-based
approach, subject to regulatory approval. Truist utilizes the standardized measurement method to calculate the specific risk component of
market risk regulatory capital. As such, incremental risk capital requirements do not apply.
VaR Model Backtesting
In accordance with the Market Risk Rule, the Company evaluates the accuracy of its VaR model through daily backtesting by comparing
aggregate daily trading gains and losses (excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) from covered
positions with the corresponding daily VaR-based measures generated by the model. As illustrated in the following graph, there were no
Company-wide VaR backtesting exceptions during the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. The total number of Company-wide VaR
backtesting exceptions over the preceding twelve months is used to determine the multiplication factor for the VaR-based capital requirement
under the Market Risk Rule. The capital multiplication factor increases from a minimum of three to a maximum of four, depending on the
number of exceptions. All Company-wide VaR backtesting exceptions are thoroughly reviewed in the context of VaR model use and
performance. There was no change in the capital multiplication factor over the preceding twelve months.
68 Truist Financial Corporation
Model Risk Management
MRM is responsible for the independent model validation of all decision tools and models including trading market risk models. The validation
activities are conducted in accordance with MRM policy, which incorporates regulatory guidance related to the evaluation of model
conceptual soundness, ongoing monitoring, and outcomes analysis. As part of ongoing monitoring efforts, the performance of all trading risk
models are reviewed regularly to preemptively address emerging developments in financial markets, assess evolving modeling approaches,
and to identify potential model enhancement.
Stress Testing
The Company uses a comprehensive range of stress testing techniques to help monitor risks across trading desks and to augment standard
daily VaR and other risk limits reporting. The stress testing framework is designed to quantify the impact of extreme, but plausible, stress
scenarios that could lead to large unexpected losses. Stress tests include simulations for historical repeats and hypothetical risk factor
shocks. All trading positions within each applicable market risk category (interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign exchange rate risk, credit
spread risk, and commodity price risk) are included in the Company’s comprehensive stress testing framework. Management reviews stress
testing scenarios on an ongoing basis and makes updates, as necessary, which is intended to ensure that both current and emerging risks
are captured appropriately. Management also utilizes stress analyses to support the Company’s capital adequacy assessment standards.
See the “Capital” section of MD&A for additional discussion of capital adequacy.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from the default, inability or unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or
counterparty to meet the terms of any financial obligation to Truist or otherwise perform as agreed. Credit risk exists in all activities where
success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when Truist funds are extended, committed,
invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether on or off-balance sheet. Credit risk increases
when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other instruments the bank holds deteriorates.
Truist has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:
• limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;
• establishing a process for credit approval accountability;
• careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks;
• ongoing servicing and monitoring of individual loans and lending relationships;
• continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and
• periodically reevaluating the Company’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.
The following discussion describes the underwriting procedures and overall risk management of Truist’s lending function.
Underwriting Approach
The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk; therefore, proper loan underwriting is critical to Truist’s long-term financial
success. Truist’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that promote credit
relationships that conform to Truist’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to
evaluate new loans and loan renewals:
• Cash flow and debt service coverage - cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans must
either be clearly supported by a borrower's cash flow or, if not, must be justified by secondary repayment sources.
• Secondary sources of repayment - alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can
be easily accessed, and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.
• Value of any underlying collateral - loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and
secondary sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be
serviced by the borrower's normal cash flows.
• Overall creditworthiness of the client, taking into account the client's relationships, both past and current, with Truist and other
lenders - Truist’s success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing
their financial position and background.
• Level of equity invested in the transaction - in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior
to any loan advances.
Refer to the "Lending Activities" section in MD&A for a discussion of each loan and lease portfolio.
Truist Financial Corporation 69
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that (i) Truist will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to obtain adequate
funding (funding liquidity risk), or (ii) Truist cannot easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices
because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions (market liquidity risk). Refer to the "Liquidity” section in MD&A for additional
discussion.
Compliance Risk
Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from nonconformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. This risk exposes Truist to fines, civil monetary
penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can result in diminished reputation, reduced franchise or
enterprise value, limited business opportunities and lessened expansion potential.
Strategic Risk
Strategic risk is the risk of financial loss, diminished stakeholder confidence, or negative impact to human capital resulting from ineffective
strategy setting and execution, adverse business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the banking industry and operating
environment. Truist is committed to fulfilling its overall strategic objectives by selecting business strategies and operating businesses in a
manner consistent with achieving profitability/earnings growth and maintaining strong confidence and trust with its key stakeholder
constituencies.
Reputation Risk
Reputation risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, enterprise value, the Truist brand, and public confidence arising from
negative publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, regarding Truist’s business practices, products, services, transactions, or other
activities undertaken by Truist, its representatives, or its partners. A negative reputation may impair Truist’s relationship with clients,
teammates, communities, or shareholders, and it is often a residual risk that arises when other risks are not managed properly.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and
systems or from external events. It includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from defective transactions, litigation or claims made, or
the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets. An operational loss occurs when an event results in a loss or reserve originating
from operational risk.
Model Risk
Model risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs. Truist uses
models for many purposes, including the valuation of financial positions, estimation of credit losses, and the measurement of risk. Valuation
models are used to value certain financial instruments for which quoted prices may not be readily available. Valuation models are also used
as inputs for VaR, the estimation of VaR itself, regulatory capital, stress testing, and the ACL. Models are owned by the applicable BUs, who
are responsible for the development, implementation, and use of their models. Oversight of these functions is performed by the MRM, which
is a component of the RMO. Once models have been approved, model owners are responsible for the maintenance of an appropriate
operating environment and must monitor and evaluate the performance of the models on a recurring basis. Models are updated in response
to changes in portfolio composition, industry and economic conditions, technological capabilities and other developments.
MRM manages model risk in a holistic manner through a suite of model governance and model validation activities. The risk of each model is
assessed and classified into various risk tiers. Additionally, MRM maintains an enterprise-wide model inventory containing relevant model
information. Regarding model validation, MRM utilizes internal validation analysts and managers with skill sets in predictive modeling to
perform detailed reviews of model development, implementation, and conceptual soundness. On certain occasions, the MRM will also
engage external parties to assist with validation efforts. Once in a production environment, MRM assesses a model’s performance on a
periodic basis through ongoing monitoring reviews. MRM tracks issues that have been identified during model validation or through ongoing
monitoring, and engages with model owners to ensure their timely remediation. MRM gauges model risk utilizing a collection of key risk
indicators, which are periodically reported to relevant committees, including but not limited to, the Model Risk Management Committee as
well as the Board Risk Committee. MRM will also present model risk topics to the Board Risk Committee as necessary.
70 Truist Financial Corporation
Technology Risk
Technology risk is the business risk associated with the use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence, and adoption of information
technology across the Company. Truist has defined and adopted a technology risk framework that provides the foundation for technology risk
strategy, program, and oversight and defines key objectives, operating model components, risk domains, and capabilities to manage this risk.
Merger Integration Risk
The Truist Merger Program was designed to ensure successful integration following the Merger through strong governance practices and
controls, with processes, metrics and reporting exemplifying a strong risk culture. The core Truist Merger Program structure consists of key
stakeholders from each line of business. Integration activities and risk mitigation are monitored through established workgroups and Truist
Merger Program leadership, with oversight and escalation into the Merger Oversight Committee (as the primary committee), TMC, and Board
Technology Committee.
Cybersecurity Risk
The technology landscape is constantly evolving, and new and unforeseen threats and actions by others may disrupt operations or result in
losses beyond Truist’s risk control thresholds. Truist maintains a comprehensive risk-based information security / cybersecurity framework
implemented through people, processes, and technology whereby Truist actively monitors and evaluates threats, events, and the
performance of its business operations and continually adapts its risk mitigation activities accordingly.
Truist’s framework aligns with those of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the International Standards Organization 27000
series, the IT Governance Institute, and the Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology, as well as conforms with the
requirements and guidance from applicable regulatory authorities, including the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. In
addition, Truist’s framework, which includes internally and externally focused capabilities, drives the development and implementation of
Truist’s data security strategy that is designed to reduce risk while enabling Truist’s corporate business objectives.
Truist has built an organization with dedicated, skilled talent to operationalize Truist’s cybersecurity strategy. The cybersecurity strategy is
enabled by continuous enhancement of Truist’s multilayered defenses including advanced capabilities for early and rapid cyber threat
identification, detection, protection, response, and recovery. Truist participates in the federally recognized Financial Services Information
Sharing and Analysis Center as a key part of the Company’s cyber threat intelligence and response programs, as well as other industry
organizations and initiatives that promote industry best practices such as harmonized cybersecurity standards, cyber readiness, and secure
consumer financial data sharing.
To further mitigate the risks presented by an evolving cyber threat landscape, Truist provides data protection guidance to clients and
promotes data protection awareness and accountability through mandatory teammate training. Truist conducts scenario-driven test exercises
simulating impacts and consequences developed through analysis of real-world technology incidents as well as known and anticipated cyber
threats. These exercises are designed to assess the viability of Truist’s crisis response and management programs and provide the basis for
continuous improvement.
Truist’s cybersecurity risk program is overseen by Executive Leadership and the Board. Regular updates on the status of the cybersecurity
risk program, including information security risks and incidents, emerging threats, and control environment, are aggregated and escalated to
Executive Leadership and the Board. Additionally, Truist has a Cyber Incident Response Team that manages significant cyber-specific events
with escalation up to Executive Leadership and the Board. Truist’s framework requires annual exercises at a minimum to test Truist’s
preparedness. The Board devotes significant time and attention to its oversight of cyber security risk and approves related information
security policies. Although Truist has invested substantial resources to manage and reduce cybersecurity risk, it is not possible to completely
eliminate this risk. Truist obtains insurance that protects against certain losses, expenses, and damages associated with cybersecurity risk.
See Item 1A, "Risk Factors," for additional information regarding cybersecurity risk.
Liquidity
Liquidity represents the continuing ability to meet funding needs, including deposit withdrawals, repayment of borrowings and other liabilities,
and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cash equivalents, and AFS securities, other factors
affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity, growing core
deposits, loan repayment, and the ability to securitize or package loans for sale.
Truist Financial Corporation 71
Truist monitors the ability to meet client demand for funds under both normal and stressed market conditions. In considering its liquidity
position, management evaluates Truist’s funding mix based on client core funding, client rate-sensitive funding, and national markets funding.
In addition, management evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive funding sources that mature in one year or less. Management also measures
liquidity needs against 30 days of stressed cash outflows for Truist and Truist Bank. To ensure a strong liquidity position and compliance with
regulatory requirements, management maintains a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unencumbered securities.
Internal Liquidity Stress Testing
Liquidity stress testing is designed to ensure that Truist and Truist Bank have sufficient liquidity for a variety of institution-specific and marketwide adverse scenarios. Each liquidity stress test scenario applies defined assumptions to execute sources and uses of liquidity over varying
planning horizons. The types of expected liquidity uses during a stressed event may include deposit attrition, contractual maturities,
reductions in unsecured and secured funding, and increased draws on unfunded commitments. To mitigate liquidity outflows, Truist has
identified sources of liquidity; however, access to these sources of liquidity could be affected within a stressed environment.
Truist maintains a liquidity buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unencumbered securities that is sufficient to meet the projected net
stressed cash-flow needs and maintain compliance with regulatory requirements. The liquidity buffer consists of unencumbered highly liquid
assets and Truist’s liquidity buffer is substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as HQLA under the LCR Rule.
Contingency Funding Plan
Truist has a contingency funding plan designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet ongoing obligations and commitments,
particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. This plan is designed to examine and quantify the organization's liquidity under the various
internal liquidity stress scenarios and is periodically tested to assess the plan’s reliability. Additionally, the plan provides a framework for
management and other critical teammates to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The plan
addresses authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options, and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity
contraction.
LCR and HQLA
The LCR rule requires that Truist and Truist Bank maintain an amount of eligible HQLA that is sufficient to meet its estimated total net cash
outflows over a prospective 30 calendar-day period of stress. Eligible HQLA, for purposes of calculating the LCR, is the amount of
unencumbered HQLA that satisfy operational requirements of the LCR rule. Truist and Truist Bank are subject to the Category III reduced
LCR requirements. Truist held average weighted eligible HQLA of $86.7 billion and Truist’s average LCR was 114% for the three months
ended December 31, 2021.
Effective July 2021, Truist became subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which are designed to ensure that banking organizations
maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. At December 31, 2021, the
Company was compliant with this requirement.
Sources of Funds
Management believes current sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet Truist’s on- and off-balance sheet obligations. Truist funds its balance
sheet through diverse sources of funding including client deposits, secured and unsecured capital markets funding, and shareholders’ equity.
Truist Bank’s primary source of funding is client deposits. Continued access to client deposits is highly dependent on public confidence in the
stability of Truist Bank and its ability to return funds to clients when requested.
Truist Bank maintains a number of diverse funding sources to meet its liquidity requirements. These sources include unsecured borrowings
from the capital markets through the issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes, institutional CDs, overnight and term Federal funds
markets, and retail brokered CDs. Truist Bank also maintains access to secured borrowing sources including FHLB advances, repurchase
agreements, and the FRB discount window. The following table presents a summary of Truist Bank’s available secured borrowing capacity
and eligible cash at the FRB:
72 Truist Financial Corporation
Table 38: Liquidity Sources
(Dollars in millions) Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2020
Unused borrowing capacity:
FRB $ 52,170 $ 52,831
FHLB 49,244 52,274
Available investment securities (after haircuts) 116,600 93,623
Available secured borrowing capacity 218,014 198,728
Eligible cash at the FRB 14,714 13,437
Total $ 232,728 $ 212,165
At December 31, 2021, Truist Bank’s available secured borrowing capacity represented approximately 14.2 times the amount of wholesale
funding maturities in one-year or less.
Parent Company
The Parent Company serves as the primary source of capital for the operating subsidiaries. The Parent Company’s assets consist primarily
of cash on deposit with Truist Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, and notes receivable from subsidiaries. The
principal obligations of the Parent Company are payments on long-term debt. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are
dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of equity and
long-term debt. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend
payments to common and preferred shareholders, repurchases of common stock, and payments on long-term debt. See “Note 22. Parent
Company Financial Information” for additional information regarding dividends from subsidiaries and debt transactions.
Access to funding at the Parent Company is more sensitive to market disruptions. Therefore, Truist prudently manages cash levels at the
Parent Company to cover a minimum of one year of projected cash outflows which includes unfunded external commitments, debt service,
common and preferred dividends and scheduled debt maturities, without the benefit of any new cash inflows. Truist maintains a significant
buffer above the projected one year of cash outflows. In determining the buffer, Truist considers cash requirements for common and
preferred dividends, unfunded commitments to affiliates, serving as a source of strength to Truist Bank, and being able to withstand
sustained market disruptions that could limit access to the capital markets. At December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the Parent
Company had 35 months and 43 months, respectively, of cash on hand to satisfy projected cash outflows, and 19 months and 22 months,
respectively, when including the payment of common stock dividends.
Credit Ratings
Credit ratings are forward-looking opinions of rating agencies as to the Company’s ability to meet its financial commitments and repay its
securities and obligations in accordance with their terms of issuance. Credit ratings influence both borrowing costs and access to the capital
markets. The Company’s credit ratings are continuously monitored by the rating agencies and are subject to change at any time. As Truist
seeks to maintain high-quality credit ratings, management meets with the major rating agencies on a regular basis to provide financial and
business updates and to discuss current outlooks and trends. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors," for additional information regarding factors that
influence credit ratings and potential risks that could materialize in the event of downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings.
The following table presents the credit ratings and outlooks of Truist and Truist Bank as of December 31, 2021:
Table 36: Credit Ratings of Truist Financial Corporation and Truist Bank
Moody's S&P Fitch DBRS Morningstar
Truist Financial Corporation:
Issuer A3 A- / A-2 A+ / F1 AH / R-1L
Senior unsecured A3 A- A AH
Subordinated A3 BBB+ A- A
Preferred stock Baa2(hyb) BBB- BBB BBBH
Truist Bank:
Issuer A2 A / A-1 A+ / F1 AAL / R-1M
Senior unsecured A2 A A+ AAL
Deposits Aa3 / P-1 NA AA- / F1+ AAL
Subordinated (P) A2 A- A AH
Ratings outlook:
Credit trend Stable Positive Stable Positive
Truist Financial Corporation 73
Recent changes in the Company’s credit ratings and outlooks include:
• On May 7, 2021, Fitch Ratings affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised the ratings outlook to “stable” from
“negative” based on the view that the Company’s diverse business model and solid strategy execution will drive stable earnings
performance, and on increased confidence in a U.S. economic recovery.
• On May 24, 2021, S&P Global Ratings affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised its ratings outlook to “positive” from
“stable,” citing stabilization in U.S. economic trends and the easing of industry risk in the U.S. banking system, and noting that the
merger of equals provides better diversity and market position, and could generate higher earnings power, financial flexibility, and
technology, providing the Company with a sustainable competitive advantage.
• On June 10, 2021, DBRS Morningstar confirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised the trend for all ratings to “positive”
from “stable”, reflecting the Company’s substantial progress with the merger integration and the view that the impact of the economic
fallout from the coronavirus pandemic will continue to be manageable.
• On July 12, 2021, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Truist Bank’s long-term subordinated debt rating to A2 from A3, and
downgraded Truist Bank’s long-term bank deposit rating to Aa3 from Aa2, following revisions to Moody’s advanced loss given failure
analysis that were published in its updated Banks methodology on July 9, 2021.
• On December 7, 2021, Moody’s Investors Service released ESG Issuer Profile Scores (IPS) and Credit Impact Scores (CIS) to assist
in demonstrating the impact of ESG on credit ratings. IPS assess an issuer’s exposure to the risk categories in Moody’s ESG
classification system from a credit perspective. CIS indicate the extent to which ESG factors impacted the issuer’s credit ratings.
Consistent with most other banks, Truist was assigned an IPS of E-3, S-4, and G-2, and a CIS of CIS-2, the latter indicating that ESG
attributes had a neutral-to-low impact on Truist’s current ratings.
• On January 19, 2022, S&P Global Ratings published Truist’s assigned ESG Credit Indicators of E-2, S-2, and G-2, which were
consistent with the scores assigned to most other banks and which indicated that environmental, social and governance factors have
“no material influence” on the rating agency’s analysis of the Company.
Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet Truist’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. As of
December 31, 2021, the Company had $1.9 billion in obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding.
Many of the purchase obligations have terms that are not fixed and determinable and are included in the total amount of obligations based
upon the estimated timing and amount of payment. In addition, certain of the purchase agreements contain clauses that would allow Truist to
cancel the agreement with specified notice; however, that impact is not included in determining the total amount of obligations. See "Note 9.
Other Assets and Liabilities," "Note 11. Borrowings," and "Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies" for additional information regarding
outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.
Capital
The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. Truist’s principal goals related
to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support Truist’s risk profile consistent with the Board-approved risk appetite,
provide financial flexibility to support future growth and client needs, comply with relevant laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance,
achieve optimal credit ratings for Truist and its subsidiaries, remain a source of strength for its subsidiaries, and provide a competitive return
to shareholders. Risk-based capital ratios, which include CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Total capital are calculated based on regulatory
guidance related to the measurement of capital and risk-weighted assets.
Truist regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is required to periodically submit the Company’s capital plans and stress
testing results to the banking regulators. Management regularly monitors the capital position of Truist on both a consolidated and bank-level
basis. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that are in excess of internal capital targets, which are
above the regulatory “well capitalized” minimums. Management evaluates whether capital ratios calculated after the effect of alternative
capital actions are likely to remain above minimums specified by the FRB for the annual CCAR process. Breaches of minimum targets
prompt a review of the planned capital actions included in Truist’s capital plan.
Table 39: Capital Requirements
Minimum Capital
Well Capitalized Minimum Capital Plus
Truist Truist Bank Stress Capital Buffer (1)
CET1 4.5 % NA 6.5 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital 6.0 6.0 % 8.0 8.5
Total capital 8.0 10.0 10.0 10.5
Leverage ratio 4.0 NA 5.0 NA
Supplementary leverage ratio 3.0 NA NA NA
(1) Reflects a SCB of 2.5% applicable to Truist as of December 31, 2021. Truist’s SCB, received in the 2021 CCAR process, is effective
from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022.
74 Truist Financial Corporation
Payments of cash dividends and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition,
management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders'
equity). The active management of the subsidiaries' equity capital is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company
liquidity and is a key element in the management of Truist’s capital position.
Management intends to maintain capital at Truist Bank at levels that will result in classification as "well-capitalized" for regulatory purposes.
Secondarily, it is management's intent to maintain Truist Bank's capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are
generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity, and risk profile. If the capital levels of Truist Bank increase above these
guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company in the form of special dividend payments, subject to regulatory and
other operating considerations.
Management's capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on (i) organic growth, (ii) dividends, and (iii) strategic opportunities
and/or share repurchases depending on opportunities in the marketplace and Truist’s interest and ability to proceed with acquisitions.
Truist Bank's capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 40: Capital Ratios - Truist Bank
December 31, 2021 2020
CET1 to risk-weighted assets 10.5 % 11.0 %
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 10.5 11.0
Total capital to risk-weighted assets 12.0 13.0
Leverage ratio 8.0 8.7
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.9 7.5
Truist’s capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 41: Capital Ratios - Truist Financial Corporation
(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands) Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2020
Risk-based:
CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets 9.6 % 10.0 %
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 11.3 12.1
Total capital to risk-weighted assets 13.2 14.5
Leverage ratio 8.7 9.6
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.4 8.7
Non-GAAP capital measure (1):
Tangible common equity per common share $ 25.47 $ 26.78
Calculation of tangible common equity (1):
Total shareholders’ equity $ 69,271 $ 70,912
Less:
Preferred stock 6,673 8,048
Noncontrolling interests — 105
Goodwill and intangible assets, net of deferred taxes 28,772 26,629
Tangible common equity $ 33,826 $ 36,130
Risk-weighted assets $ 390,886 $ 379,153
Common shares outstanding at end of period 1,327,818 1,348,961
(1) Tangible common equity and related measures are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of intangible assets, net of deferred
taxes, and their related amortization. These measures are useful for evaluating the performance of a business consistently, whether
acquired or developed internally. Truist’s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and returns relative to
balance sheet risk. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other
companies.
Truist’s capital level at December 31, 2021 remains strong compared to the regulatory levels for well capitalized banks. Truist’s CET1 ratio
was 9.6% as of December 31, 2021. The decline compared to the 2020 CET1 ratio reflects capital deployed through the acquisitions of
Service Finance, LLC and Constellation Affiliated Partners, the repurchase of common stock, and loan growth in the fourth quarter of 2021
driving an increase in risk-weighted assets. Truist increased common dividends 7% to $0.48 per share starting in the third quarter of 2021.
During 2021, Truist paid $2.5 billion in common stock dividends or $1.86 per share, and repurchased $1.6 billion of common stock. Truist
also redeemed $1.4 billion of preferred stock to optimize the Company’s capital position. The dividend payout ratio for 2021 was 41%
compared to 58% for the prior year. The total payout ratio for 2021 was 68% compared to 58% for the prior year, reflecting the resumption of
share repurchases during the year. In early 2022, Truist declared common dividends of $0.48 per share for the first quarter of 2022, and
announced the acquisition of Kensington Vanguard National Land Services to expand IH’s title insurance operation.
Truist Financial Corporation 75
Reclassifications
In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the current presentation. Such
reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders' equity or net income. Refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" for
additional discussion regarding reclassifications.
Critical Accounting Policies
The accounting and reporting policies of Truist are in accordance with GAAP and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines
prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. The financial position and results of operations are affected by management's application of
accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and
amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in
the consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. Understanding Truist’s accounting
policies is fundamental to understanding the consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, Truist’s
significant accounting policies and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in "Note 1. Basis of Presentation."
The following is a summary of Truist’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions, and judgments.
These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a periodic basis.
ACL
Truist’s ACL represents management's best estimate of expected future credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolios and off-balance
sheet lending commitments at the balance sheet date. Estimates of expected future loan and lease losses are determined by using statistical
models and management’s judgement. The models are designed to forecast probability of default, exposure at default and loss given default
by correlating certain macroeconomic forecast data to historical experience. The models are generally applied at the portfolio level to pools of
loans with similar risk characteristics. The macroeconomic data used in the models is based on forecasted variables for the reasonable and
supportable period of two years. Beyond this forecast period the models gradually revert to long-term historical loss conditions over a one
year period. As a means of addressing uncertainty related to future economic conditions, the quantitative allowance includes an adjustment
that reflects model output calculated using a range of potential future economic conditions. Expected losses are estimated through
contractual maturity, giving appropriate consideration to expected prepayments unless the borrower has a right to renew that is not
cancellable or it is reasonably expected that the loan will be modified as a TDR.
A qualitative allowance which incorporates management’s judgement is also included in the estimation of expected future loan and lease
losses, including qualitative adjustments in circumstances where the model output is inconsistent with management’s expectations with
respect to expected credit losses. This allowance is used to adjust for limitations in modeled results related to the current economic
conditions, and considerations with respect to the impact of current and expected events or risks, the outcomes of which are uncertain and
may not be completely considered by quantitative models.
Management considers a range of macroeconomic forecast data in connection with the allowance estimation process. Under the range of
scenarios considered as of December 31, 2021, use of the Company’s pessimistic scenario would have resulted in an increase to the
modeled allowance results of approximately $2.1 billion. This estimate reflects the sensitivity of the modeled allowance estimate to
macroeconomic forecast data but does not consider other qualitative adjustments that could increase or decrease modeled loss estimates
calculated using this alternative economic scenario.
The Company individually evaluates expected credits losses related to loans and leases that do not share similar risk characteristics and
loans that have been classified as a TDR. For individually evaluated loans, the ALLL is determined through review of data specific to the
borrower and related collateral, if any, while for TDRs, default expectations and estimated prepayment speeds that are specific to each of the
restructured loan populations are incorporated in the determination of the ALLL.
The methodology used to determine an estimate for the RUFC is similar to that used to determine the funded component of the ALLL and is
measured over the period there is a contractual obligation to extend credit that is not unconditionally cancellable. The RUFC is adjusted for
factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at default. A detailed discussion of the
methodology used in determining the ACL is included in "Note 1. Basis of Presentation."
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The vast majority of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are based on either quoted market prices or market
prices for similar instruments. Refer to "Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures" for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial
instruments and "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional disclosures regarding business combinations.
76 Truist Financial Corporation
Securities
Truist generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determining the fair value of its AFS investment securities, whereas trading securities
are priced internally. Fair value measurements for investment securities are derived from market-based pricing matrices that were developed
using observable inputs that include benchmark yields, benchmark securities, reported trades, offers, bids, issuer spreads, and broker
quotes. Management performs procedures to evaluate the fair values provided by the third-party service provider. These procedures, which
are performed independent of the responsible business unit, include comparison of pricing information received from the third party pricing
service to other third-party pricing sources, review of additional information provided by the third-party pricing service and other third-party
sources for selected securities and back-testing to compare the price realized on security sales to the daily pricing information received from
the third-party pricing service. The Enterprise Valuation Committee, which provides oversight to Truist’s enterprise-wide IPV function, is
responsible for the comparison of pricing information received from the third-party pricing service or internally to other third-party pricing
sources, approving tolerance limits determined by IPV for price comparison exceptions, reviewing significant changes to pricing and valuation
policies and reviewing and approving the pricing decisions made on any illiquid and hard-to-price securities. When market observable data is
not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity or inactive markets for certain securities, the valuation of the security is
subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management to reflect unobservable input assumptions.
MSRs
Truist’s primary class of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risks relates to residential mortgages. Residential MSRs do not
trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are
not readily available. Accordingly, Truist estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using a stochastic OAS valuation model to project
residential MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers
portfolio characteristics, contractually-specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary
revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. Truist reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in
the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the residential MSR asset.
Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to industry surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience and, when
available, observable market data. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, residential MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation
hierarchy. The value of residential MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence
mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing
prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of residential
MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Truist typically hedges against market value changes in the residential MSRs.
Refer to "Note 8. Loan Servicing" for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management's assumptions would have on
the fair value of residential MSRs.
LHFS
Truist originates certain residential and commercial mortgage loans for sale to investors that are measured at fair value. The fair value is
primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as
components of Residential mortgage income and Commercial mortgage income, while the related origination costs are generally recognized
in Personnel expense when incurred. The changes in fair value are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding
and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the LHFS. Truist uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the economic
effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans. LHFS also includes certain loans, generally carried at LOCOM, where management
has committed to a formal plan of sale and the loans are available for immediate sale. Adjustments to reflect unrealized gains and losses
resulting from changes in fair value, up to the original carrying amount, and realized gains and losses upon ultimate sale are classified as
noninterest income. The fair value of these loans is estimated using observable market prices when available. When observable market
prices are not available, the Company uses judgment and estimates fair value using internal models that reflect assumptions consistent with
those that would be used by a market participant in estimating fair value. Refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" for further description of the
Company’s accounting for LHFS.
Truist Financial Corporation 77
Trading Loans
Truist elects to measure certain loans at fair value for financial reporting where fair value aligns with the underlying business purpose.
Specifically, loans included within this classification include trading loans that are (i) purchased in connection with the Company’s TRS
business, (ii) part of the loan sales and trading business within the C&CB segment, or (iii) backed by the SBA. Refer to "Note 16.
Commitments and Contingencies," and "Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments," for further discussion of the Company’s TRS business.
The loans purchased in connection with the Company’s TRS and sales and trading businesses are primarily commercial and corporate
leveraged loans valued based on quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active by a third party pricing
service. SBA loans are fully guaranteed by the U.S. government as to contractual principal and interest and there is sufficient observable
trading activity upon which to base the estimate of fair value.
Derivative Assets and Liabilities
Truist uses derivatives to manage various financial risks and in a dealer capacity to facilitate client transactions. Truist mitigates credit risk by
subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition,
certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to Truist when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The
fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices and internal pricing models that use market
observable data for interest rates, foreign exchange, equity, and credit. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to
mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that Truist does not expect to fund and includes
the value attributable to the net servicing fee. Refer to "Note 19. Derivative Financial Instruments" for further information on the Company’s
derivatives.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The acquisition method of accounting requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are recorded at their fair
values. This often involves estimates based on third party valuations or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other
valuation techniques, which are inherently subjective. The amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is based upon the estimated
economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. Business combinations also typically result in goodwill, which is subject to
ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair values of the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates. Refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" for a description of the impairment testing process.
At December 31, 2021, Truist’s reporting units with goodwill balances were CB&W, C&CB, and IH. Management reviews the goodwill of each
reporting unit for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events or circumstances indicate that it is more-likely-thannot that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. For its annual impairment review, Truist elected to perform a quantitative
test of each of its reporting units. The quantitative impairment test estimates the fair value of the reporting units using the income approach
and market based approaches, weighted 50% and 50%, respectively. The income approach utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis. The
market based approaches utilize comparable public company information, key valuation multiples, and considers a market control premium
associated with cost synergies and other cash flow benefits that arise from obtaining control over a reporting unit, and guideline transactions,
when applicable.
The inputs and assumptions specific to each reporting unit are incorporated in the valuations, including projections of future cash flows,
discount rates, applicable valuation multiples based on the comparable public company information, and guideline transaction information.
Truist also assesses the reasonableness of the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units by comparison to its market
capitalization over a reasonable period of time, including consideration of historic bank control premiums and the current market.
Multi-year financial forecasts are developed for each reporting unit by considering several inputs and assumptions such as net interest
margin, expected credit losses, noninterest income, noninterest expense, and required capital. Of these inputs, the projection of net interest
margin is the most significant to the financial projections of the CB&W and C&CB reporting units. The long-term growth rate used in
determining the terminal value of each reporting unit was 3% as of October 1, 2021, based on management's assessment of the minimum
expected terminal growth rate of each reporting unit. Discount rates are estimated based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model, which considers
the risk-free interest rate, market risk premium, beta, and unsystematic risk adjustments specific to a particular reporting unit. The discount
rates are also calibrated based on risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. The discount rates utilized for the CB&W,
C&CB, and IH reporting units as of October 1, 2021 were 11%, 10%, and 10%, respectively.
Based on the Company’s annual impairment analysis of goodwill as of October 1, it was determined for the CB&W, C&CB, and IH reporting
units that the respective reporting unit's fair value was in excess of its respective carrying value as of October 1, 2021, therefore goodwill is
considered not impaired for the CB&W, C&CB, and IH reporting units. None of the reporting units of the Company had a fair value that
exceeded the respective carrying value by less than 10%.
78 Truist Financial Corporation
The Company also performs sensitivity analyses around these assumptions in order to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions, and
the resulting estimated fair values. While the Company’s sensitivity analyses did not indicate risk of impairment as of October 1. 2021, future
potential changes in these assumptions may impact the estimated fair value of a reporting unit and cause the fair value of the reporting unit
to be below its carrying value. Additionally, a reporting unit's carrying value could change based on market conditions, asset growth, or the
risk profile of those reporting units, which could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value.
The Company monitored events and circumstances during the fourth quarter of 2021, concluding that it was not more-likely-than-not that the
fair value of one or more of its reporting units is below its respective carrying amount as of December 31, 2021.
Income Taxes
Truist is subject to income tax laws of the U.S., its states, and the municipalities in which the Company conducts business. In estimating the
net amount due to or to be received from tax jurisdictions either currently or in the future, the Company assesses the appropriate tax
treatment of transactions and filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent, and other pertinent information. The
income tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities.
Significant judgment is required in determining the tax accruals and in evaluating the Company’s tax positions, including evaluating uncertain
tax positions. Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws and new
judicial guidance, the status of examinations by the tax authorities, and newly enacted statutory and regulatory guidance that could impact
the relative merits and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur, impact tax expense and can materially affect operating
results. Truist reviews tax positions quarterly and adjusts accrued taxes as new information becomes available.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years. Such assets arise due to temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from NOL and tax credit carryforwards. The
Company regularly evaluates the ability to realize DTAs, recognizing a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is
more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the DTA will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, the
Company considers the level of taxable income in prior years to the extent that carrybacks are permitted under current tax laws, as well as
estimates of future pre-tax and taxable income and tax planning strategies that would, if necessary, be implemented. Truist currently
maintains a valuation allowance for certain state carryforwards. For additional income tax information, refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation"
and "Note 14. Income Taxes."
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations
Truist offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to teammates. Calculation of the obligations and related expenses under
these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions, which are subject to management judgment and may differ
significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by
reference to an AA Above Median corporate bond yield curve and the individual characteristics of the plans such as projected cash flow
patterns and payment durations.
Management also considered the sensitivity that changes in the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension
expense. For the Company’s qualified plans, a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in additional pension expense of
approximately $23 million for 2022, while a decrease of 100 basis points in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of
approximately $166 million in pension expense for 2022. Refer to "Note 15. Benefit Plans" for disclosures related to the benefit plans.
Truist Financial Corporation 79