                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Business News: TD Ameritrade Wins Fight Over Order Handling ................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---BusinessNews:TDAmeritradeWinsFightOverOrderHandling          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Business News: TD Ameritrade Wins Fight Over Order Handling
          By Alexander Osipovich                                                  
          516 words                                                               
          24 April 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A federal appeals court sided with TD Ameritrade in a legal battle over its practice of routing investors' stock
          orders to high-speed trading firms in exchange for payments.            
          The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on Friday rejected a proposed class-action lawsuit from
          investors who accused the brokerage of securities fraud. The suit claimed TD Ameritrade had failed to abide
          by its duty to seek the best execution for customer stock trades.       
          The decision by a three-judge panel reversed a 2018 ruling from a federal judge in Nebraska who had
          allowed the suit to go forward.                                         
          It came as the practice at the heart of the lawsuit -- called payment for order flow -- came under renewed
          scrutiny in a series of recent congressional hearings devoted to the wild, Reddit-fueled rally in GameStop
          Corp. stock earlier this year.                                          
          In Friday's opinion, the judges didn't weigh in on the substance of the plaintiffs' fraud allegations. Instead,
          they found it would be too difficult to determine which investors had been harmed by TD Ameritrade's
          order-routing practices.                                                
          Such a determination would require numerous individualized inquiries studying each trade over a period of
          several years, the judges said, rejecting an effort by the plaintiffs to use a giant data-crunching computer
          program to pinpoint who had been harmed.                                
                                                                                  
          "We conclude that despite advances in technology, individual evidence and inquiry is still required to
          determine economic loss for each class member," the judges wrote.       
          A spokeswoman for Charles Schwab Corp., which completed its acquisition of TD Ameritrade last year, said
          the firm was pleased with the court's decision. "High-quality trade executions and transparency are a
          cornerstone of our commitment to putting clients first, and our combined firm has a strong track record that
          consistently reflects that commitment," she said.                       
          A lawyer for the plaintiffs didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
          Better Markets, a financial-reform group that had filed a brief in support of the plaintiffs, voiced
          disappointment with the ruling. "The anti-investor decision will help perpetuate a system of legalized bribery in
          our stock markets at the expense of millions of everyday investors," Stephen Hall, legal director and
          securities specialist of Better Markets, said.                          
          Payment for order flow, a decades-old practice, is widespread in the brokerage industry. It helps make it
          possible for brokers such as E*Trade, TD Ameritrade and Robinhood Markets Inc. to offer zero-commission
          trading.                                                                
                                                                                  
          Critics say payment for order flow is a conflict of interest for brokers because it encourages them to maximize
          the amount of money they collect from high-speed trading firms, rather than ensuring that investors get the
          best possible price on their trades.                                    
          Brokers say investors get slightly better prices on stock trades when their orders are routed to electronic
          trading firms than they would if the order were sent to public stock exchanges. Trading giants such as Citadel
          Securities LLC and Virtu Financial Inc. handle the majority of individual investors' orders.
          Document J000000020210424eh4o0002l                                      
                                                                                  
          