                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Shifts Strategy as It Chases Rivals --- Investors need to watch how moves are executed ...................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupShiftsStrategyasItChasesRivals---Investorsneedtowatchhowmovesareexecuted
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Citigroup Shifts Strategy as It Chases Rivals --- Investors need to watch how moves are executed
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          788 words                                                               
          9 June 2021                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Under new management, Citigroup is still aiming to close its performance gap to peers. But how it goes about
          that may be changing.                                                   
          One of the bank's first big moves has been to shrink its global retail footprint, moving to exit consumer
          banking franchises in 13 countries in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. These units weren't necessarily part
          of the problem as Citigroup was striving to meet its target of a 12% return on tangible common equity, a
          measure of profit as a percentage of the bank's equity capital, before the pandemic. The yearslong drive to
          boost this key metric tracked by investors succeeded in bringing Citigroup closer to rivals like Bank of
          America and JPMorgan Chase, which boasted equity returns in the mid-to-high teens pre-pandemic.
          The businesses being exited were allocated just $7 billion of tangible common equity on average last year, or
          less than 5% of the bank's equity base. This meant they had potential for high returns, or at least weren't
          likely to be major drags on capital efficiency as the bank strove to meet its targets.
          Speaking last Friday at a Bernstein conference, Chief Executive Jane Fraser, who officially took the reins in
          March, described the international retail units as "good return businesses." But they also would have required
          a lot of investment in infrastructure and controls to continue to digitize them and get them to a larger scale.
          That is an area where Citigroup is already spending a lot of time and money, following a special consent
          order from U.S. regulators last year that cited deficiencies in risk management, data and internal controls.
          Ms. Fraser noted that the bank's efforts to close return gaps with peers must focus not only on what
          businesses it will give priority to, but how it operates them. She said the bank would rather "monetize" those
          retail assets and redeploy the resources, either as part of capital return to shareholders or toward
          higher-return activities.                                               
          Though the bank did meet its return goal in 2019, and enjoyed outsize stock-price gains that year, a
          combination of the pandemic and the consent order last year saw its share performance drop off versus
          rivals. Citigroup is hovering around its price level from the beginning of 2020, while S&P 500 banks overall
          are now about 13% above that mark. Citigroup's return on tangible common equity dipped to under 7% last
          year, from 12.1% in 2019. It now trades at just over one-times tangible book value, compared with over
          two-times for Bank of America and JPMorgan, according to FactSet.       
          Coming out of the pandemic and under new leadership, now is a good time for the bank to undertake moves
          with a long-term payoff. One aim is that many retail customers in the soon-to-be-exited markets will stay with
          the bank in its regional hubs for wealth management. Global wealth is a high-return business the bank wants
          to make a core focus, though competition is intense as many other global banks have the same idea.
          Within retail banking, Ms. Fraser said that the exits "will also enable us to have more focus on the home
          market" in the U.S., through both financial resources and human talent. Ms. Fraser pointed to her experience
          seeing a boost in the bank's Mexico retail banking performance after she oversaw the exit of other Latin
          America retail markets. She said she didn't believe "branches are dead yet" in U.S. retail banking and noted
          the potential for digital banking partnerships, like with retailers such as Home Depot.
          U.S. retail will likely be a key part of closing the long-term return gap, as U.S. retail deposits are some of the
          cheapest and stickiest funding in the world. Autonomous Research's John McDonald has estimated
          Citigroup's relatively higher funding costs could explain as much as half of the gap between its core returns
          on tangible common equity and those of its closest peers at the end of last year. Citigroup's retail deposits
          were about half the size of its total loan book at the end of last year, versus over 90% at JPMorgan and Bank
          of America, according to Autonomous.                                    
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The bank may also get a lift from the U.S. economic recovery in its vast credit-card business, and that could
          help boost its share price. But investors should stay focused on how the bank is using this turbulent time to
          reshape some of its core economics.                                     
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020210609eh690000o                                      
                                                                                  
          