 Item 1: Business 

We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through the Bank, we have over 150 years of servicing the financial needs of our customers. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment financing, inventory finance, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance products and services, and other financial products and services. At December 31, 2021, our 1,092 full-service branches and private client group offices are primarily located in Ohio, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant. 

On June 9, 2021, Huntington closed the acquisition of TCF Financial Corporation in an all-stock transaction valued at $7.2 billion. TCF was a financial holding company headquartered in Detroit, Michigan with operations across the Midwest. The acquisition brought increased scale and market density, as well as added new markets and capabilities. Historical periods prior to June 9, 2021 reflect results of legacy Huntington operations. Subsequent to closing, results reflect all post-acquisition activity. For further information, refer to Note 3 &#8220; Acquisition of TCF Financial Corporation &#8221; of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks but distinguished by local delivery and customer service. 

A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to: 

&#8226; Use a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. 

&#8226; Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. 

&#8226; Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us. 

Following is a description of our four business segments and the Treasury / Other function: 

&#8226; Commercial Banking: Through a relationship banking model, the Commercial Banking segment provides a comprehensive set of product offerings and capabilities to middle market, large corporate, specialized industries and government/public sector customers located within our geographic footprint, as well as nationally. The segment is divided into five business units: Regional Commercial Banking, Specialty Banking, Asset Finance, Treasury Management and Capital Markets. 

Regional Commercial Banking primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to middle market businesses, government and public sector entities, and commercial real estate developers/REITs. Most middle market and government customers are located within our footprint, while our commercial real estate team serves customers nationally. Within commercial real estate, Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to-moderate income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization. 

2021 Form 10-K 7 

Table of Contents 

Specialty Banking offers banking solutions to targeted industries across the country. Industries include healthcare, technology and telecommunications, franchise finance, sponsor finance, and global services. 

Asset Finance provides equipment financing, asset-based lending, inventory financing, structured lending and municipal financing solutions to small, medium and large commercial and municipal customers across a diversified range of industries on a national basis. 

Capital Markets delivers capital raising solutions, sales and trading, and corporate risk management products for Commercial customers. Our Institutional Banking business lines serve corporate and public sector customers with access to public markets and sophisticated financing needs. 

Treasury Management offers a robust suite of payments, working capital and liquidity solutions to help businesses effectively manage their payments and investment activity. 

&#8226; Consumer and Business Banking: The Consumer and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, CDs, investments, consumer loans, credit cards, and small business loans. Other financial services available to customers include mortgages, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Huntington serves customers through our network of channels, including branches, online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and ATMs. 

We have a &#8220;Fair Play&#8221; banking philosophy: providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer friendly products and advocacy. Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses, helping us acquire new customers and deepen relationships with current customers. Our Fair Play banking suite of products includes 24-Hour Grace&#174;, Money Scout&#8480;, $50 Safety Zone&#8480;, Early Pay and Standby Cash&#8480;. 

Business Banking is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with annual revenues up to $20 million. Beyond conventional lending solutions, Huntington offers SBA lending, practice finance and treasury management capabilities. We are the #1 SBA lender in the nation in units as of federal fiscal year end September 30, 2021. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business and look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs. 

Consumer Payments and Lending provides consumer and small business credit and debit cards primarily to our deposit customers as well as unsecured personal loans, personal lines, other direct secured loans. The products are distributed through both branch and online channels. The product suite is aimed at meeting our customers&#8217; borrowing and transacting needs. The team continues to explore ways to innovate and continue to meet the evolving and rapidly changing payment needs of customers. 

Home Lending, an operating unit of Consumer and Business Banking, originates consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through the Consumer and Business Banking and Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group segments, as well as through commissioned loan originators. Home Lending earns interest on portfolio loans and loans held-for-sale, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans. Home Lending supports the origination of mortgage loans across all segments. 

&#8226; Vehicle Finance: Our products and services include providing financing to consumers for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles, and marine craft at franchised and other select dealerships, and providing financing to franchised dealerships for the acquisition of new and used inventory. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained. 

8 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

The Vehicle Finance team services automobile dealerships, their owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships has allowed us to expand into select markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships in 27 states while building a strong reputation. Huntington also provides financing for the purchase by consumers of recreational vehicles and marine craft on an indirect basis through a series of dealerships with a 34 state footprint, including coastal states. 

&#8226; Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group: Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group is closely aligned with our regional banking markets. A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets. 

The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth &#38; Investment Management, and Retirement Plan Services. The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services. The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services. This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate businesses. The Huntington Private Client Group also provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services. 

&#8226; Treasury / Other: The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 

The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 - &#8220; Segment Reporting &#8221; of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the &#8220; Business Segment Discussion &#8221; of our MD&#38;A. 

ESG 

ESG Oversight 

With oversight from our Board of Directors, we and our colleagues are committed to implementing strong ESG practices by living out our Purpose of making people&#8217;s lives better, helping businesses thrive, and strengthening the communities we serve. The following represents how ESG is governed and integrated throughout the Company: 

##TABLE_START Board Nominating and ESG Committee 

Board Risk Oversight Committee 

Executive Leadership Team 

Risk Management Committee 

ELT Sponsor 

ESG Working Group 

ESG Strategy Team 

Climate Risk Management Working Group 

##TABLE_END

ESG Working Group 

Huntington&#8217;s ESG Working Group is primarily responsible for driving the overarching ESG strategy for the Company and making strategy recommendations to the Board; reporting ESG strategy, goals, and progress to the Board (typically on a quarterly basis); and publishing our various ESG disclosures, including the annual ESG Report. The ESG Working Group is comprised of a core, cross-functional group with representatives from our Environmental Strategy &#38; Sustainability, Investor Relations, Legal, Corporate Communications, and Corporate Governance functions. To keep abreast of matters throughout the year, this group typically meets on a weekly basis. 

2021 Form 10-K 9 

Table of Contents 

ESG Strategy Team 

The ESG Strategy Team is responsible for advancing the ESG strategy and facilitating implementation of the strategy at the segment- and business unit-level; ensuring consistent understanding of ESG strategy throughout the Company; and assisting with ESG goal setting, reporting, and monitoring. The Team also works to identify ESG-related innovation and advancement opportunities aligned with strategic planning for the enterprise. This larger group includes executive leaders across business segments and support units and meets regularly throughout the year. 

Climate Risk Management Working Group 

Our Climate Risk Management Working Group, led by our Climate Risk Director, has the more narrowed focus of creating and monitoring Huntington&#8217;s Climate Risk Framework, performing climate risk scenario testing, and establishing our financed emissions methodology. 

Economic 

Our economic impact begins with our commitment to delivering sustainable, long-term shareholder value through financial performance, while maintaining an aggregate moderate-to-low, through-the-cycle risk appetite and a well-capitalized position. We align our corporate strategy to our purpose of helping others and build upon our market-leading, purpose-driven bank through focused efforts on the environmental, social and governance issues most important to our business and our stakeholders. 

Following the acquisition of TCF, in June 2021, we committed $40 billion toward a new Strategic Community Plan to strengthen small businesses and foster economic justice through our footprint over the next five years. The Strategic Community Plan builds on the goals of our previous community plans, with expanded commitments focusing on increasing lending and services to address economic, social, environmental, and racial equity areas of need as follows: 

&#8226; Huntington committed to providing $24 billion in affordable housing financing and consumer lending. 

&#8226; Huntington expanded its Small Business lending programs into its new footprint and committed $10 billion to the programs. 

&#8226; Huntington committed $6.5 billion in loans and investments to establish programs and services that foster equity in areas such as affordable housing, small business financing, and community services. 

&#8226; Embedded in the areas of need above is a $16 billion commitment for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion initiatives, with allocation of funds to minority borrowers and communities to advance systemic change. 

Environmental 

Our approach to environmental sustainability is guided by our Environmental Policy Statement, which outlines our pledge to protect the environment, address climate change, and manage our environmental risks. We demonstrate our commitment and transparency through our disclosures to CDP and our reporting to the TCFD framework. 

We have made progress on our goals to reduce our operational (Scope 1 and Scope 2) emissions, reduce our landfill waste, paper printing, and water consumption. We have also committed to shifting 50% of our electricity usage to renewable sources by 2035. In November of 2021, we announced our first-ever Climate Risk Director and Environmental Strategy &#38; Sustainability Director providing an increased focus on climate risk and environmental related efforts. 

Human Capital (Social) 

Huntington aspires to be a Category of One financial services institution: an organization unique in the combination of its culture and performance. Huntington had 18,442 average full-time equivalent colleagues during 2021, all of whom are encouraged to live out a shared purpose of making people&#8217;s lives better, helping businesses thrive, and strengthening the communities we serve. We believe purpose driven leadership facilitates progress in achieving a diverse and inclusive workforce and in driving performance. 

10 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

We engage with our colleagues to gain valuable feedback on a wide range of subjects related to the experience of working at Huntington, with a strategic focus on culture, trust and engagement. We value the feedback colleagues choose to share and use the information to drive our talent management strategy, which focuses on four key areas and a commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion: 

&#8226; Engagement 

&#8226; Development 

&#8226; Retention, and 

&#8226; Attraction of top talent 

Engagement 

At Huntington, we have taken steps to ensure our values, beliefs, and behaviors align with those of current and potential colleagues. We believe we have highly engaged colleagues committed to looking out for each other and our customers with a balanced focus on &#8220;what we do&#8221; and &#8220;how we do it.&#8221; This synergy has proven to positively impact colleague performance and satisfaction. 2021 marked the eighth consecutive year we conducted a company-wide engagement survey to measure our colleagues&#8217; experience across a variety of areas, with a strategic focus on culture, trust, and engagement &#8211; and the results, which included responses of our newly integrated TCF colleagues, were reaffirming. In 2021, 83%, 85% and 81% responded favorably on culture, trust and engagement respectively. 79% of colleagues responded they would recommend Huntington as a great place to work. In addition to the annual company-wide engagement survey, we further engaged our colleagues by launching three broad pulse surveys. These surveys were leveraged to inform of colleague sentiment on key and timely topics, such as the cultural integration of TCF, the health and safety response to COVID-19, and the transition to remote work. 

At Huntington, living our shared Purpose extends beyond our daily work. We believe that building connections between colleagues, their families and our communities creates a meaningful, fulfilling and enjoyable colleague experience. During 2021, Huntington colleagues continued to successfully navigate through the on-going pandemic challenges, safely providing over 28,000 volunteer hours to organizations across our footprint. 

Development 

We have created specialized programs to help our colleagues grow and develop. These programs include an online library which allows colleagues to take ownership of their development via direct access to role-based content. The content is divided into three key areas of development: learning and growth, maximizing performance, and protecting the company. During 2021, all our colleagues had experienced training within one or more of these areas with an average of 30.7 training hours per average full-time equivalent colleague. Additionally, we expanded learning opportunities across our footprint offering all colleagues the ability to obtain post-secondary education with reimbursement of tuition. 

Fostering an inclusive work environment is a responsibility shared by all colleagues. To ensure all Huntington colleagues are able to identify the value of, and exhibit, behaviors that drive diversity, equity, and inclusion, we offer year-round training. In 2021, our colleagues collectively completed 1.3 hours per average full-time equivalent colleague of diversity, equity and inclusion training, with additional opportunities to participate in Inclusion Council and Business Resource Group events. 

Retention 

Huntington offers competitive rewards programs that further strengthen our employment value proposition and encourages colleague retention. Our compensation structure includes benefit plans and programs focused on multiple facets of well-being, including physical, mental, and financial wellness. Effective January 1, 2022 we increased the minimum hourly pay rate to $19. We also offer Workplace Flex to help employees achieve work/life harmony with flexible work arrangements, parental leave, and other health, wellness and financial benefits and services that assist employees and their families. Our Workplace Flex includes flextime, staggered hours, compressed workweek, part-time schedule or working remote. 

2021 Form 10-K 11 

Table of Contents 

Huntington is committed to pay equity so that gender, race, and ethnicity are not determining factors in salaries, bonuses, and stock-based awards. We continue to identify and implement effective practices to promote pay equity, including pay analyses, additional hiring practices that protect pay equity, and training managers on explicit and implicit bias in compensation and promotion decisions. Huntington seeks to maintain approximately 100% pay equity. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes to support the interests and needs of our colleagues, as well as the communities in which we operate. This includes mobilizing work access for roles that can be performed remotely and implementing additional safety measures for colleagues while continuing critical on-site duties. Further, we implemented colleague relief benefits, such as paid emergency leave and emergency childcare time off so that our colleagues can have peace of mind concerning events that may require time away from work. 

Collectively, these strategies create a colleague experience that entices colleagues to stay and fulfill their dreams with Huntington. 

Attraction of top talent 

We are dedicated to attracting top talent with an emphasis on experience and behaviors that align with our Purpose and our core values of &#8216;Can Do, Forward Thinking, and Service Heart&#8217;. 

The diversity of our colleagues is a key component of our success as an organization as it allows us to have a workforce that is representative of the communities we serve. We define diversity as women and any race category other than white. We proactively seek out a diverse candidate pool during the recruitment process across all levels and include a declaration in our employee handbooks about our commitment to fair and equitable treatment for all colleagues. To keep current on colleague diversity, Huntington offers an opportunity annually for all colleagues to self-identify with respect to gender, ethnicity and race, disability and veteran&#8217;s status. During 2021, we offered select student internships to serve as a pipeline for entry-level talent with 73% of these internships fulfilled by diverse students. Additionally, we are focused on identifying, supporting and promoting qualified diverse candidates in leadership roles, where as of December 31, 2021, our combined middle, senior and executive management levels are 45% diverse. As of December 31, 2021, our total workforce was 68% diverse. 

We understand that to support our diverse culture, we must also have inclusion, which is a corporate strategic objective. Huntington executes a strategy of inclusion in multiple ways. First, our Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer ensures Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion perspectives are an integral part of executive decisions made at Huntington. This is achieved by measuring and socializing progress on diversity across our footprint and providing diversity and inclusion programs to our colleagues. In addition, we have Inclusion Councils and Business Resource Groups to support our commitment to engage, develop, retain and attract top diverse talent. Inclusion Councils are voluntary, colleague driven regional councils that focus on an inclusive, respectful and supportive environment for all colleagues. The Business Resource Groups are voluntary, colleague-driven groups organized around a shared interest or common diversity dimension. Both are important components to our inclusion strategy and deliver content throughout the year. 

Governance 

Our Board of Directors and ELT are committed to executing on our long-term vision. Our Board members are accomplished leaders from diverse backgrounds, bringing the perspectives, skills, and experience necessary to use independent judgment that will effectively challenge and drive continued success. Our Board members approve the strategy, risk appetite, and ethical standards for the entire organization, and our ELT ensures our business and enterprise functions operate with high legal, ethical, and moral standards through clearly stated policies and procedures. Additionally, our leaders set the tone and oversee compliance with our standards and direct the company&#8217;s financial reporting and internal controls. 

At the end of 2021, our Board consisted of 17 directors, comprised of our Chairman/President/CEO as well as our Huntington National Bank Chairman, and 15 independent directors, including our Independent Lead Director. Our key risk and governance committees require at least three directors who are independent and are chaired by an independent director with the knowledge and expertise to lead the committee. As of December 31, 2021, both our ELT and Board were 47% diverse. 

12 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

Competition 

We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, equipment and automobile financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, brokerage firms, and non-bank lenders both within and outside of our primary market areas. Financial Technology Companies, or FinTechs, are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers. 

We compete for loans primarily on the basis of value and service by building customer relationships through addressing our customers&#8217; entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets. 

We compete for deposits similarly on the basis of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We employ customer friendly practices, such as a $50 Safety Zone sm , which prevents customers from being charged an overdraft fee if they overdraw by $50 or less, 24-Hour Grace &#174; account feature for both commercial and consumer accounts, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their account without being charged overdraft fees, as well as Early Pay, which allows customers with direct deposit availability to their paycheck up to two days early. Customers can qualify for Standby Cash sm based on their checking deposit history, not their credit score, which provides up to $1,000 short-term line of credit free with automatic payments, or a 1% monthly interest charge without automatic payments. Huntington also has created a feature called Money Scout sm , which is a tool that analyzes a customer&#8217;s spending habits and moves money that is not being used into that customer&#8217;s savings account. These measures fall under our approach of &#8220;Fair Play Banking.&#8221; 

The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2021, in the top 10 MSAs in which we compete: 

##TABLE_START MSA Rank Deposits 

(in millions) 

Market Share Columbus, OH 1 $ 33,392 34 % Detroit, MI 4 19,727 10 Cleveland, OH 2 14,193 14 Chicago, IL 12 9,920 2 Minneapolis-St. Paul, MN 5 6,545 3 Grand Rapids, MI 2 5,890 19 Akron, OH 1 5,397 27 Indianapolis, IN 5 5,017 7 Cincinnati, OH 4 4,847 3 Pittsburgh, PA 9 4,044 2 Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2021 survey. ##TABLE_END

Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. 

FinTechs continue to emerge in key areas of banking. In addition, larger established technology platform companies continue to evaluate, and in some cases, create businesses focused on banking products. We are closely monitoring activity in the marketplace to ensure that our products and services are technologically competitive. Further, we continue to invest in and evolve our innovation program to develop, incubate, and launch new products and services driving ongoing differentiated value for our customers. Our overall strategy involves an active corporate development program that seeks to identify partnership and possible investment opportunities in technology-driven companies that can augment our distribution and product capabilities. 

2021 Form 10-K 13 

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Matters 

Regulatory Environment 

The banking industry is highly regulated. We are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by various federal and state regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, CFPB, FDIC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies. The statutory and regulatory framework that governs us is generally intended to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole. 

Banking statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Huntington and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve adopted the EPS Tailoring Rule pursuant to the Economic Growth Act, which adjusted the thresholds at which certain enhanced prudential standards apply to U.S. BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Also in October 2019, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC adopted the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule, which similarly adjusted the thresholds at which certain other capital and liquidity standards apply to U.S. BHCs and banks with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Under the Tailoring Rules, these BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank, are placed into one of four risk-based categories based on the banking organization&#8217;s size, status as a global systemically important bank (or not), cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. The extent to which enhanced prudential standards and certain other capital and liquidity standards apply to these BHCs and banks depends on the banking organization&#8217;s category. Under the Tailoring Rules, Huntington and the Bank each qualify as a Category IV banking organization subject to the least restrictive of the requirements applicable to firms with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. 

As a result of the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules, Huntington and the Bank are subject to less restrictive requirements with respect to certain enhanced prudential standards and capital and liquidity requirements than in past years, but our business remains subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The U.S. banking agencies may issue additional rules to tailor the application of certain other regulatory requirements to BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. 

We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC, as well as the rules of Nasdaq that apply to companies with securities listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. 

The following discussion describes certain elements of the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to us. This discussion is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to Huntington, the Bank, and Huntington&#8217;s other subsidiaries. 

Huntington as a Bank Holding Company 

Huntington is registered as a BHC with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act and qualifies for and has elected to become a FHC under the GLBA. As a FHC, Huntington is permitted to engage in, and be affiliated with companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC. BHCs are generally restricted to engaging in the business of banking, managing or controlling banks, and certain other activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. FHCs may also engage in activities that are considered to be financial in nature, as well as those incidental or complementary to financial activities, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies. Huntington and the Bank must each remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; in order for Huntington to maintain its status as a FHC. In addition, the Bank must receive a CRA rating of at least &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; at its most recent examination for Huntington to engage in the full range of activities permissible for FHCs. 

14 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

Huntington is subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, which serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization. The primary regulators of our non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Federal Reserve exercising a supervisory role. Such non-bank subsidiaries include, for example, broker-dealers and investment advisers both registered with the SEC. 

The Bank as a National Bank 

The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States. As a national bank, the activities of the Bank are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations. The Bank is subject to comprehensive primary supervision, regulation, and examination by the OCC. As a member of the DIF, the Bank is also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC. 

Supervision, Examination and Enforcement 

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of BHCs and banks. In addition, BHCs and banks are subject to periodic reporting and filing requirements. 

The Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC have broad supervisory and enforcement authority with regard to BHCs and banks, including the power to conduct examinations and investigations, impose nonpublic supervisory agreements, issue cease and desist orders, impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance, and appoint a conservator or receiver. In addition, Huntington, the Bank, and other Huntington subsidiaries are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the CFPB, which is the primary administrator of most federal consumer financial statutes and Huntington&#8217;s primary consumer financial regulator. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions may not be made public. 

Bank regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of a banking organization&#8217;s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things, prohibit unsafe or unsound practices, require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, and terminate deposit insurance. 

Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Company, its subsidiaries, and their respective officers, directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above, and other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC may terminate a bank&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the bank&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated an applicable rule, regulation, order, or condition enacted or imposed by the bank&#8217;s regulatory agency. 

Huntington is subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s LFI Rating System, to align its supervisory rating system, which places a greater emphasis on capital and liquidity, including related planning and risk management practices as compared to the supervisory rating system applicable to smaller BHCs. These ratings will remain confidential. 

Bank Acquisitions by Huntington 

BHCs, such as Huntington, must obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition that results in the BHC owning or controlling 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank or another BHC. 

Acquisitions of Ownership of the Company 

Acquisitions of Huntington&#8217;s voting stock above certain thresholds are subject to prior regulatory notice or approval under federal banking laws, including the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, a person or entity generally must provide prior notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring the power to vote 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Investors should be aware of these requirements when acquiring shares in our stock. 

2021 Form 10-K 15 

Table of Contents 

Interstate Banking 

Under the Riegle-Neal Act, a BHC may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the BHC not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the BHC&#8217;s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. A national bank, such as the Bank, with the approval of the OCC may open a branch in any state if the law of that state would permit a state bank chartered in that state to establish the branch. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

Huntington and the Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the U.S. Basel III capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve, for Huntington, and by the OCC, for the Bank. These rules implement the Basel III international regulatory capital standards in the United States, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the Federal Reserve and OCC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. 

Under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, Huntington&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions&#8217; risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Huntington and the Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio , equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders&#8217; equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio , equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock, and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio , equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Leverage Ratio , equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets (net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions). 

Huntington and the Bank have elected to temporarily delay certain effects of CECL on regulatory capital for two years, followed by a three-year transition period beginning January 1, 2022 pursuant to a rule that allows BHCs and banks to delay for two years 100% of the day-one impact of adopting CECL and 25% of the cumulative change in the reported allowance for credit losses since adopting CECL. The cumulative impact of the two-year delay will be phased-in over the three-year transition period. 

The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios are reflected in the table below in this section. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the U.S. Basel III capital rules. For purposes of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation Y, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be an FHC, BHCs, such as Huntington, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater. If the Federal Reserve were to apply the same or a very similar well-capitalized standard to BHCs as that applicable to the Bank, Huntington&#8217;s capital ratios as of December 31, 2021, would exceed such revised well-capitalized standard. The Federal Reserve may require BHCs, including Huntington, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC&#8217;s particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. 

16 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our operations or financial condition. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Huntington&#8217;s or the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications. 

In addition to meeting the minimum capital requirements, under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, Huntington and the Bank must also maintain the required stress capital buffer and Capital Conservation Buffer, respectively, to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management. The Capital Conservation Buffer is 2.5% and is calculated as a ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and it effectively increases the required minimum risk-based capital ratios. The Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is not impacted by the Capital Conservation Buffer, and a banking institution may be considered well-capitalized while remaining out of compliance with the Capital Conservation Buffer. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule that, among other things, replaced the Capital Conservation Buffer with stress buffer requirements for certain large BHCs, including Huntington. Please refer to the Stress Buffer Requirements section below for further details. 

The following table presents the minimum regulatory capital ratios, minimum ratio plus capital conservation buffer, and well-capitalized minimums compared with Huntington&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2021, calculated using the regulatory capital methodology applicable during 2021. 

##TABLE_START Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratio Minimum Ratio + Capital Conservation Buffer (1) Well-Capitalized 

Minimums (2) 

At December 31, 2021 Actual Ratios: CET 1 risk-based capital ratio Consolidated 4.50 % 7.00 % N/A 9.33 % Bank 4.50 7.00 6.50 % 10.15 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio Consolidated 6.00 8.50 6.00 10.99 Bank 6.00 8.50 8.00 11.06 Total risk-based capital ratio Consolidated 8.00 10.50 10.00 13.14 Bank 8.00 10.50 10.00 12.58 Tier 1 leverage ratio Consolidated 4.00 N/A N/A 8.56 Bank 4.00 N/A 5.00 8.60 ##TABLE_END

(1) Reflects a stress capital buffer of 2.5% for Huntington and the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% for the Bank. 

(2) Reflects the well-capitalized standard applicable to Huntington under Federal Reserve Regulation Y and the well-capitalized standard applicable to the Bank. 

Huntington has the ability to provide additional capital to the Bank to maintain the Bank&#8217;s risk-based capital ratios at levels which would be considered well-capitalized. 

As of December 31, 2021, Huntington&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s regulatory capital ratios were above the well-capitalized standards and met the stress capital buffer and the Capital Conservation Buffer, respectively. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Under the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule, Huntington, as a Category IV banking organization with less than $50 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, is exempt from the LCR and net stable funding ratio requirements but will continue to be subject to internal liquidity stress tests and standards. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, as modified by the Economic Growth Act, BHCs with consolidated assets of more than $100 billion, such as Huntington, are currently subject to certain enhanced prudential standards. As a result, Huntington is subject to more stringent standards, including liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management standards, than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. 

2021 Form 10-K 17 

Table of Contents 

A rule to implement one additional enhanced prudential standard&#8212;early remediation requirements&#8212;is still under consideration by the Federal Reserve. In June 2018, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule that established single counterparty credit limits. The single counterparty credit limits do not apply to BHCs like Huntington that do not have at least $250 billion of total consolidated assets. 

As discussed in the Regulatory Environment section above, under the EPS Tailoring Rule, Huntington, as a Category IV banking organization, is subject to the least restrictive enhanced prudential standards applicable to firms with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. As compared to enhanced prudential standards that were applicable to Huntington, under the EPS Tailoring Rule, Huntington is no longer subject to company-run stress testing requirements and is subject to supervisory stress tests every other year (as opposed to annually), less frequent internal liquidity stress tests, and reduced liquidity risk management requirements. Future rules to implement the Economic Growth Act may further change the enhanced prudential standards applicable to Huntington. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing 

Huntington is required to develop, maintain, and submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan every year, which is subject to supervisory review in connection with the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process. Huntington is required to include within its capital plan an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over the nine-quarter planning horizon, a detailed description of the process for assessing capital adequacy, its capital policy, and a discussion of any expected changes to its business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy. Under the stress buffer requirements final rule adopted in March 2020, the CCAR process is used to determine a BHC&#8217;s stress capital buffer requirement. Please refer to the Stress Buffer Requirements section below for further details. 

The Federal Reserve expects BHCs subject to CCAR, such as Huntington, to have sufficient capital to withstand a highly adverse operating environment and to be able to continue operations, maintain ready access to funding, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, and serve as credit intermediaries. In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates the planned capital actions of these BHCs, including planned capital distributions such as dividend payments or stock repurchases. This involves a quantitative assessment of capital based on supervisory-run stress tests that assess the ability to maintain capital levels above certain minimum ratios, after taking all capital actions included in a BHC&#8217;s capital plan, under baseline and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon. As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates whether BHCs have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial market stress and whether they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks. We are generally prohibited from making a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, we will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios. Under the stress buffer requirements final rule adopted in March 2020, BHCs, including Huntington, may increase their capital distributions in excess of the amount included in their capital plan without seeking prior approval from the Federal Reserve as long as the BHC otherwise complies with the automatic restrictions on distributions under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital rules. 

While the Federal Reserve is no longer allowed to object to the capital plan of a large and non-complex BHC, such as Huntington, on a qualitative, as opposed to quantitative, basis, the Federal Reserve may evaluate the strength of Huntington&#8217;s qualitative capital planning process through the regular supervisory process and targeted horizontal reviews of particular aspects of capital planning. In addition, under the stress buffer requirements final rule adopted in March 2020, the Federal Reserve may no longer object to capital plans of BHCs, including Huntington, on a quantitative basis. Please refer to the Stress Buffer Requirements section below for further details. 

Stress Buffer Requirements 

In March 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to integrate its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements. The final rule applies to certain BHCs, including Huntington, and introduces a stress capital buffer and related changes to the capital planning and stress testing processes. 

18 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

For risk-based capital requirements, Huntington is required to calculate a SCB equal to the greater of (i) the difference between its starting and minimum projected CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of Huntington&#8217;s planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. As of December 31, 2021, Huntington&#8217;s SCB is 2.5%. 

The final rule also makes related changes to the capital planning and stress testing process. Among other changes, the revised capital plan rule eliminates the assumption that Huntington&#8217;s balance sheet assets would increase over the planning horizon. In addition, provided that Huntington is otherwise in compliance with automatic restrictions on distributions under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital rules, Huntington will no longer be required to seek prior approval to make capital distributions in excess of those included in its capital plan. 

Restrictions on Dividends 

Huntington is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Since our consolidated net income consists largely of net income of Huntington&#8217;s subsidiaries, our ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing shares, depends upon our receipt of dividends from these subsidiaries. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which the Bank can declare and pay dividends to Huntington, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to Huntington. No assurances can be given that the Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to Huntington. 

Huntington&#8217;s ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders is similarly limited by federal banking law and Federal Reserve regulations and policy. As discussed in the Capital Planning section above, a BHC may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. 

Huntington must maintain the applicable stress capital buffer and the Bank must maintain the CET1 Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5% to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions, including dividends. For more information on the stress buffer requirements and the Capital Conservation Buffer, see the Stress Capital Buffer Requirements and the Regulatory Capital Requirements sections above, respectively. 

Federal Reserve policy provides that a BHC generally should not pay dividends unless (1) the BHC&#8217;s net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) is sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition of the BHC and its subsidiaries, and (3) the BHC will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. Accordingly, a BHC should not pay cash dividends that can only be funded in ways that weaken the BHC&#8217;s financial health, such as by borrowing. A BHC should inform the Federal Reserve reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the BHC&#8217;s capital structure. BHCs should also consult with the Federal Reserve before increasing dividends or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Additionally, the Federal Reserve could prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by a BHC if it determines that payment of the dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. 

In response to the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, certain large BHCs, including Huntington, were not permitted to make share repurchases, subject to certain limited exceptions, during the third and fourth quarters of 2020, but were permitted to make dividend payments subject to limits based on the amount of dividends paid in the second quarter and the firm&#8217;s average net income over the preceding four quarters. For the first and second quarters of 2021, provided that a BHC did not increase its common stock dividends higher than the level paid in the second quarter of 2020, BHCs, including Huntington, were permitted to pay common dividends and make share repurchases that, in the aggregate, did not exceed an amount equal to the average of the firm&#8217;s net income over the four preceding calendar quarters. BHCs could also make additional share repurchases up to the amount of share issuances related to expensed employee compensation. These temporary restrictions were lifted after the second quarter of 2021, and these BHCs, including Huntington, are currently subject to the normal capital distribution restrictions of the stress capital buffer framework. 

2021 Form 10-K 19 

Table of Contents 

Volcker Rule 

Under the Volcker Rule, we are prohibited from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for our own account and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds (covered funds). The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations, and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of covered funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of covered funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance and reporting obligations on banking entities, such as Huntington. We have put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and have either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid covered funds. 

As of October 2019, the five federal agencies with rulemaking authority with respect to the Volcker Rule finalized amendments to the proprietary trading provisions of the Volcker Rule. These amendments tailor the Volcker Rule&#8217;s compliance requirements to the amount of a firm&#8217;s trading activity, revise the definition of trading account, clarify certain key provisions in the Volcker Rule, and modify the information companies are required to provide the federal agencies. These amendments to the Volcker Rule are not material to our investing and trading activities. 

In June 2020, the five federal agencies finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s restrictions on ownership interests in and relationships with covered funds. Among other things, these amendments permit banking entities to have relationships with and offer additional financial services to additional types of funds and investment vehicles. These amended requirements are not material to Huntington&#8217;s investing and trading activities. 

Resolution Planning 

In past years, Huntington was required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan for the orderly resolution of Huntington and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other applicable insolvency laws in a rapid and orderly fashion in the event of future material financial distress or failure. In October 2019, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC adopted amendments to their resolution planning rule, and as a result of these amendments, Huntington is no longer required to submit a resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. 

The Bank is required to periodically file a resolution plan with the FDIC. In April 2019, the FDIC released an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking with respect to the FDIC&#8217;s bank resolution plan requirements that requested comments on how to better tailor bank resolution plans to a firm&#8217;s size, complexity, and risk profile, and delayed bank resolution plan submissions to the rulemaking process. The FDIC issued a policy statement in June 2021 announcing that it will resume requiring bank level resolution plans for large banks, including the Bank, and bank-level resolution plans will have more streamlined content requirements. The Bank will be required to submit a bank-level resolution plan every three years, with the next submission date in December 2022. 

The public versions of the resolution plans previously submitted by Huntington and the Bank are available on the FDIC&#8217;s website and, in the case of Huntington&#8217;s resolution plans, also on the Federal Reserve&#8217;s website. 

Source of Strength 

Huntington is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank and, under appropriate conditions, to commit resources to support the Bank. This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it or when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of Huntington or our shareholders or creditors. The Federal Reserve may require a BHC to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the BHC with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the BHC fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the BHC&#8217;s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank. 

Under these requirements, Huntington may in the future be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should it experience financial distress. Capital loans by Huntington to the Bank would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of the Bank. In the event of Huntington&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by Huntington to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of the Bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

20 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

FDIC as Receiver or Conservator of Huntington 

Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, the FDIC may be appointed as the conservator or receiver of the institution. Under the Orderly Liquidation Authority, upon the insolvency of a BHC, such as Huntington, the FDIC may be appointed as conservator or receiver of the BHC, if certain findings are made by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the President. Acting as a conservator or receiver, the FDIC would have broad powers to transfer any assets or liabilities of the institution without the approval of the institution&#8217;s creditors. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, including the Bank, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver would have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If the Bank were to fail, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, would have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including Huntington, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Transactions between a Bank and its Affiliates 

Federal banking laws and regulations impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including between a bank and its holding company and companies that the BHC may be deemed to control for these purposes. Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm&#8217;s-length terms and cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the Bank&#8217;s regulatory capital. Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the BHC may be required to provide it. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the coverage and scope of these regulations, including by applying them to the credit exposure arising under derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions. Federal banking laws also place similar restrictions on loans and other extensions of credit by FDIC-insured banks, such as the Bank, and their subsidiaries to their directors, executive officers, and principal shareholders. 

Lending Standards and Guidance 

The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted uniform regulations prescribing standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. Under these regulations, all insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, must adopt and maintain written policies establishing appropriate limits and standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens or interests in real estate or are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate. These policies must establish loan portfolio diversification standards, prudent underwriting standards (including loan-to-value limits) that are clear and measurable, loan administration procedures, and documentation, approval and reporting requirements. The real estate lending policies must reflect consideration of the federal bank regulatory agencies&#8217; Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies. 

Heightened Governance and Risk Management Standards 

The OCC has published guidelines to set expectations for the governance and risk management practices of certain large financial institutions, including the Bank. The guidelines require covered institutions to establish and adhere to a written governance framework in order to manage and control their risk-taking activities. In addition, the guidelines provide standards for the institutions&#8217; boards of directors to oversee the risk governance framework. As discussed in the &#8220; Risk Management and Capital &#8221; section of the MD&#38;A, the Bank currently has a written governance framework and associated controls. 

2021 Form 10-K 21 

Table of Contents 

Anti-Money Laundering 

The Bank Secrecy Act and the Patriot Act contain anti-money laundering and financial transparency provisions intended to detect and prevent the use of the U.S. financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing activities. The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, requires depository institutions and their holding companies to undertake activities including maintaining an AML program, verifying the identity of customers, verifying the identity of certain beneficial owners for legal entity customers, monitoring for and reporting suspicious transactions, reporting on cash transactions exceeding specified thresholds, and responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. The Bank is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act and, therefore, is required to provide its employees with AML training, designate an AML compliance officer, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. The Bank has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML requirements. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on AML compliance, and we will continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our AML compliance programs. The federal banking agencies are required, when reviewing bank and BHC acquisition or merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the AML activities of the applicant. 

The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, enacted on January 1, 2021 as part of the National Defense Authorization Act, does not directly impose new requirements on banks, but requires the U.S. Treasury to issue National Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Priorities, and conduct studies and issue regulations that may, over the next few years, significantly alter some of the due diligence, recordkeeping and reporting requirements that the Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act impose on banks. The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 also contains provisions that promote increased information-sharing and use of technology, and increases penalties for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act and includes whistleblower incentives, both of which could increase the prospect of regulatory enforcement. 

OFAC Regulation 

OFAC is responsible for administering economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, and others, as defined by various Executive Orders and in various legislation. OFAC-administered sanctions take many different forms. For example, sanctions may include: (1) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (2) a blocking of assets in which the government or &#8220;specially designated nationals&#8221; of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons. OFAC also publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring, or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Blocked assets, for example property and bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Data Privacy 

Federal and state law contains extensive consumer privacy protection provisions. The GLBA requires financial institutions to periodically disclose their privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other federal and state laws and regulations impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. These security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations as applicable. Federal law also makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means. 

22 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

Data privacy and data protection are areas of increasing state legislative focus. For example, in June of 2018, the Governor of California signed into law the CCPA. The CCPA, which became effective on January 1, 2020, applies to for-profit businesses that conduct business in California and meet certain revenue or data collection thresholds. The CCPA gives consumers the right to request disclosure of information collected about them, and whether that information has been sold or shared with others, the right to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions), the right to opt out of the sale of the consumer&#8217;s personal information, and the right not to be discriminated against for exercising these rights. The CCPA contains several exemptions, including that many, but not all, requirements of the CCPA are inapplicable to information that is collected, processed, sold, or disclosed pursuant to the GLBA. California voters also recently passed the California Privacy Rights Act, which will take effect on January 1, 2023, and significantly modifies the CCPA, including imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding California consumers&#8217; rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring us to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. In California, the CCPA may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with our understanding. Numerous other states have also enacted or are in the process of enacting state-level privacy, data protection and/or data security laws and regulations. The federal government may also pass data privacy or data protection legislation. 

Like other lenders, the Bank and other of our subsidiaries use credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the FCRA, and the FCRA also regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on us and our subsidiaries. 

FDIC Insurance 

The DIF provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, up to a standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $250,000 per depositor and is funded through assessments on insured depository institutions, based on the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The Bank accepts customer deposits that are insured by the DIF and, therefore, must pay insurance premiums. The FDIC may increase the Bank&#8217;s insurance premiums based on various factors, including the FDIC&#8217;s assessment of its risk profile. 

The FDIC also requires large insured depository institutions, including the Bank, to maintain enhanced deposit account recordkeeping and related information technology system capabilities to facilitate prompt payment of insured deposits if such an institution were to fail. 

As of September 30, 2021, the DIF reserve ratio stood at 1.27%. The FDIC, as required under the FDIA, established a plan on September 15, 2020, to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed 1.35% within eight years. The FDIC&#8217;s restoration plan projects the reserve ratio to exceed 1.35% without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate, subject to ongoing monitoring over the next eight years. The FDIC could increase the deposit insurance assessments for certain insured depository institutions, including the Bank, if the DIF reserve ratio is not restored as projected. 

Compensation 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies. The scope and content of compensation regulation in the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect that these regulations and resulting market practices will continue to evolve over a number of years. 

2021 Form 10-K 23 

Table of Contents 

The federal bank regulatory agencies have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations, such as Huntington and the Bank, do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC to issue regulations or guidelines requiring covered financial institutions, including Huntington and the Bank, to prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. A proposed rule relating to such incentive-based payment arrangements was issued by the SEC in 2016. Also pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in 2015, the SEC proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. Huntington continues to evaluate the proposed rules, both of which are subject to further rulemaking procedures. 

Cybersecurity 

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. 

The CISA is intended to improve cybersecurity in the United States by enhanced sharing of information about security threats among the U.S. government and private sector entities, including financial institutions. The CISA also authorizes companies to monitor their own systems notwithstanding any other provision of law and allows companies to carry out defensive measures on their own systems from cyber-attacks. The law includes liability protections for companies that share cyber threat information with third parties so long as such sharing activity is conducted in accordance with CISA. 

In October 2016, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued an ANPR regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including us and the Bank. The proposed rules would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management, management of internal and external dependencies, and incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. The Federal Reserve announced in May 2019 that it would revisit the ANPR in the future. 

In addition, in November 2021, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC finalized a rule that, among other things, requires a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a &#8220;computer-security incident&#8221; that the banking organization believes in good faith could materially disrupt, degrade or impair its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and soundness practices. The relevant federal bank regulatory agency, the OCC in the Bank&#8217;s case, examines each bank and assigns it a public CRA rating. A bank&#8217;s record of fair lending compliance is part of the resulting CRA examination report. 

The CRA requires the relevant federal bank regulatory agency to consider a bank&#8217;s CRA assessment when considering the bank&#8217;s application to conduct certain mergers or acquisitions or to open or relocate a branch office. The Federal Reserve also must consider the CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a BHC in connection with any acquisition or merger application filed by the BHC. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay or result in the denial of an approval or application by Huntington or the Bank. The Bank received a CRA rating of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; in its most recent examination. 

In May 2020, the OCC finalized amendments to its CRA rules, which would have applied to national banks, including the Bank, but in December 2021, the OCC rescinded those amendments and reinstated the CRA rules that have historically applied to national banks. 

24 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

Table of Contents 

The OCC has also issued a joint statement with the other federal banking agencies, the FDIC and Federal Reserve, stating that they are committed to working together jointly to modernize the CRA rules. 

Debit Interchange Fees 

We are subject to a statutory requirement that interchange fees for electronic debit transactions that are paid to or charged by payment card issuers, including the Bank, be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer. Interchange fees for electronic debit transactions are limited to 21 cents plus 0.05% of the transaction, plus an additional one cent per transaction fraud adjustment. These fees impose requirements regarding routing and exclusivity of electronic debit transactions, and generally require that debit cards be usable in at least two unaffiliated networks. 

Consumer Protection Regulation and Supervision 

We are subject to supervision and regulation by the CFPB with respect to federal consumer protection laws. We are also subject to certain state consumer protection laws, and under the Dodd-Frank Act, state attorneys general and other state officials are empowered to enforce certain federal consumer protection laws and regulations. State authorities have increased their focus on and enforcement of consumer protection rules. These federal and state consumer protection laws apply to a broad range of our activities and to various aspects of our business and include laws relating to interest rates, fair lending, disclosures of credit terms and estimated transaction costs to consumer borrowers, debt collection practices, the use of and the provision of information to consumer reporting agencies, and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale, or provision of consumer financial products and services. 

The CFPB has promulgated many mortgage-related final rules since it was established under the Dodd-Frank Act, including rules related to the ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, HMDA requirements, and appraisal and escrow standards for higher priced mortgages. The mortgage-related final rules issued by the CFPB have materially restructured the origination, servicing, and securitization of residential mortgages in the United States. These rules have impacted, and will continue to impact, the business practices of mortgage lenders, including the Company. 

In January 2021, the OCC released a final rule that would require certain OCC-supervised banks to provide access to services, capital, and credit based on their risk assessment of individual customers, rather than broad-based decisions affecting whole categories or classes of customers, which includes requiring banks to make each financial service they offer available to all persons in the geographic market served by them on proportionally equal terms. The rule was scheduled to take effect on April 1, 2021, but the OCC has delayed the effective date indefinitely. However, the OCC announced that the next confirmed Comptroller of the Currency will review the final rule, and its future remains uncertain. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. The reports and other information, including any related amendments, filed by us with, or furnished by us to, the SEC are also available free of charge at our Internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.huntington.com. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the Nasdaq National Market at 33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York 10004. 

2021 Form 10-K 25 

Table of Contents 

