 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

Other than as set forth below, there has been no material change in the Corporation&#8217;s risk factors as previously disclosed in the Corporation's 2022 Annual Report in response to Part I, Item 1A. of such report. Such risk factors are incorporated herein by reference. 

Below we amend the following risk factors discussed in Part I, &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors - Liquidity Risk&#8221; in the Corporation's 2022 Annual Report: 

&#8226; Comerica must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity to meet regulatory expectations, support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities. 

Comerica&#8217;s liquidity and ability to fund and run its business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility, a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general, or deposit competition based on interest rates, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or adversely affect Comerica's ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. 

Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Comerica&#8217;s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in, or negative news about, Comerica or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect Comerica's ability to access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to alternative investments; counterparty availability; interest rate fluctuations; general economic conditions; and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing Comerica's funding transactions. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Comerica has little or no control. There can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. 

As Comerica experienced following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank, the failure of other financial institutions may cause deposit outflows as customers spread deposits among several different banks so as to maximize their amount of FDIC insurance, move deposits to banks deemed "too big to fail" or remove deposits from the U.S. financial system entirely. Comerica has a high percentage of uninsured deposits and relies on its deposit base for liquidity. If Comerica is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access 

funding sources on favorable terms, or if Comerica suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, Comerica&#8217;s liquidity, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 

Further, Comerica's customers may be adversely impacted by such conditions, which could have a negative impact on Comerica's business, financial condition and results of operations. 

&#8226; The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Comerica. 

Comerica's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Comerica has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led, and may further lead, to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Comerica may be impacted if the collateral held by it cannot be monetized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to Comerica. Further, volatility in the banking industry following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank may lead to greater reliance on third parties that provide money market or deposit sweep services. In addition, many of these transactions could expose Comerica to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect, possibly materially, Comerica. 

&#8226; Reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect Comerica and/or the holders of its securities. 

Rating agencies regularly evaluate Comerica, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including Comerica's financial strength as well as factors not entirely within its control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. For instance, in April 2023, Moody's downgraded the Corporation and Bank's credit ratings by one notch to Baa1 from A3 and changed the Corporation and Bank's outlooks to Negative related to uncertainty in the banking industry following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank and the subsequent impacts. Since the recent banking industry disruption, Moody's has lowered the macro profile of the U.S. banking system to "Strong +" from "Very Strong -", reflecting general concern around the banking industry as a whole. 

There can be no assurance that Comerica will maintain its current ratings or that Comerica's credit ratings will not be downgraded again in the future. The impact of the recent downgrade to Comerica's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could adversely affect Comerica's profitability, borrowing costs, or ability to access the capital markets or otherwise have a negative effect on Comerica's results of operations or financial condition. If future reductions placed Comerica's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings below investment grade, it could also create obligations or liabilities under the terms of existing arrangements that could increase Comerica's costs under such arrangements. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Comerica or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. 

