 Risk Factors (Item 1A) 

The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Registrant&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2019:

The COVID-19 

pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for our business. 

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)

as a global pandemic. The COVID-19 

pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, lowered equity market valuations, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, and increased unemployment levels. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities, including those in major markets in which the Bancorp is located or does business.

As a result, the demand for the Bancorp&#8217;s products and services has been, and will continue to be, significantly impacted. Furthermore, the pandemic could influence the recognition of credit losses in the Bancorp&#8217;s loan and lease portfolios and increase its allowance for credit losses as both businesses and consumers are negatively impacted by the economic downturn. In addition, governmental actions are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment, which could adversely affect the Bancorp&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. The business operations of subsidiaries of the Bancorp, such as Fifth Third Bank, National Association, may also be disrupted if significant portions of their workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic, travel restrictions, technology limitations and/or disruptions. Furthermore, the business operations of subsidiaries of the Bancorp have been, and may again in the future be, disrupted due to vendors and third-party service providers being unable to work or provide services effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic. 

In response to the pandemic, Fifth Third Bank, National Association, has also suspended residential property foreclosure sales, evictions, and involuntary automobile repossessions, and is offering fee waivers, payment deferrals, and other expanded assistance for credit card, automobile, mortgage, small business and personal lending customers. These programs, as well as certain accommodations made to commercial customers, are expected to negatively impact revenue and other results of operations of the Bancorp in the near term and, if not effective in mitigating the effect of COVID-19

on Bancorp customers, may adversely affect the Bancorp&#8217;s business and results of operations more substantially over a longer period of time.

The extent to which the COVID-19

pandemic impacts the Bancorp&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as its regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. Moreover, the effects of the COVID-19

pandemic may heighten many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K

and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q

or Current Report on Form 8-K

including, but not limited to, risks of credit deterioration, interest rate changes, rating agency actions, governmental actions, market volatility, theft, fraud, security breaches and technology interruptions.

Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. 

Fifth Third&#8217;s ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries&#8217; credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities of Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third&#8217;s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. 

Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. 

On April 28, 2020, Fitch Ratings Inc. (&#8220;Fitch&#8221;) revised Fifth Third Bancorp&#8217;s Rating Outlook on its Long- and Short-Term Issuer Default Ratings to &#8220;Negative&#8221; from &#8220;Stable&#8221; as part of an ongoing horizontal review of all U.S. banks the agency is conducting as a result of concerns about significant operating environment challenges due to the disruption to economic activity and financial markets from the coronavirus pandemic. As of the date of this filing, we are under review by Fitch and Fitch has not changed our ratings. Accordingly, our Fitch ratings are subject to change at any time. 

Other rating agencies may also take actions to downgrade their ratings of the securities issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries. There can be no assurances that Fifth Third or its subsidiaries will retain any specific rating from any specific rating agency. 

