 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 

Market risk is the risk of loss in a financial instrument arising from adverse changes in market prices and rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and equity prices. The Company's market risk arises primarily from interest rate risk inherent in its lending, investing, and deposit taking activities. To that end, management actively monitors and manages the Company's interest rate risk exposure. The Company generally manages its interest rate sensitivity by evaluating re-pricing opportunities on its earning assets to those on its funding liabilities. 

Management uses various asset/liability strategies to manage the re-pricing characteristics of the Company's assets and liabilities, all of which are designed to ensure that exposure to interest rate fluctuations is limited to within the Company's guidelines of acceptable levels of risk-taking. Hedging strategies, including the terms and pricing of loans and deposits and management of the deployment of its securities, are used to reduce mismatches in interest rate re-pricing opportunities of portfolio assets and their funding sources. Derivatives in a hedging relationship are also used to minimize the Company's exposure to changes in benchmark interest rates and volatility of net interest income and EVE to interest rate fluctuations, with their impact reflected in the model results discussed below. 

Interest rate risk is addressed by ALCO, which includes members of executive management, finance, and operations. ALCO monitors interest rate risk by analyzing the potential impact on the net EVE and net interest income from potential changes in interest rates and considers the impact of alternative strategies or changes in balance sheet structure. The Company manages its balance sheet in part to keep the potential impact on EVE and net interest income within acceptable ranges despite changes in interest rates. 

The Company's exposure to interest rate risk is reviewed at least quarterly by ALCO. Interest rate risk exposure is measured using interest rate sensitivity analysis to determine its change in both EVE and net interest income in the event of hypothetical changes in interest rates. If potential changes to EVE and net interest income resulting from hypothetical interest rate changes are not within the limits established by the BOD or, ALCO determines that interest rate exposures should be reduced, ALCO will either take hedging actions or adjust the asset and liability mix to bring interest rate risk within BOD-approved limits or in line with ALCO's proposed reduction. ALCO may also decide the best course of action for a limit breach is to accept the breach and present justification to the BOD. If the BOD does not agree to accept the limit breach, it will direct ALCO to remediate the breach. The Company's net interest income and EVE exposure limits are approved by the BOD on an annual basis, or more often if market conditions warrant. During the year ended December 31, 2023, there have been no changes to the Company's exposure limits. 

Net Interest Income Simulation. To measure interest rate risk at December 31, 2023, the Company used a simulation model to project changes in net interest income that result from forecasted changes in interest rates. This analysis calculates the difference between a baseline net interest income forecast using current yield curves, compared to forecasted net income resulting from an immediate parallel shift in rates upward or downward, along with other scenarios directed by ALCO. The income simulation model includes various assumptions regarding re-pricing relationships for each of the Company's products. Many of the Company's assets are variable rate loans, which are assumed to re-price at the next rate re-set period and, proportional to the change in market rates, depending on their contracted index, including the impact of caps or floors. Some loans and investments contain contractual prepayment features (embedded options) and, accordingly, the simulation model incorporates prepayment assumptions. The Company's non-term deposit products re-price with a certain beta to underlying market rate changes. The Company regularly conducts sensitivity analysis for this assumption to determine the impact on the interest rate risk position. These betas are derived separately by deposit product and are based on both observed and projected market rate and balance trends. Current deposit beta assumptions range between 20% to 90%, depending on product, with an average interest bearing deposit beta of 59%. 

This analysis indicates the impact of changes in net interest income for the given set of rate changes and assumptions. It assumes loan and deposit balances remain static and do not change over the course of the year. It does not account for all factors that could impact the Company's results, including changes by management to mitigate interest rate changes or secondary factors, such as changes to the Company's credit risk profile as interest rates change. The results also will be impacted by seasonality in the balance sheet. Furthermore, loan prepayment rate estimates and spread relationships change regularly. Interest rate changes create changes in actual loan prepayment speeds that will differ from the market estimates incorporated in this analysis. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and as a result, actual results may differ from simulated results due to factors such as timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes as well as changes in market conditions, customer behavior and management strategies, and changes that vary significantly from the modeled assumptions may have a significant effect on the Company's actual net interest income. 

This simulation model assesses the changes in net interest income that would occur in response to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease (shock) in market interest rates. A Down 200 scenario in this simulation model is also being presented as of December 31, 2023 as current projections of future market rates include consideration of rate decreases in the current high rate environment. The Company will continue to evaluate the scenarios that are presented as interest rates change and will update these scenario disclosures as appropriate. 

Sensitivity of Net Interest Income 

##TABLE_START Down 200 Down 100 Up 100 Up 200 (change in basis points from Base) Parallel Shift Scenario (7.1) % (3.4) % 3.2 % 6.4 % Interest Rate Ramp Scenario (3.1) (1.5) 1.5 3.0 ##TABLE_END

At December 31, 2023, our net interest income exposure for the next twelve months related to these hypothetical changes in market interest rates was within our current guidelines. 

Economic Value of Equity. The Company measures the impact of market interest rate changes on the NPV of estimated cash flows from its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items, defined as EVE, using a simulation model. The Company's simulation model focuses on parallel interest rate shocks and takes into account assumptions related to loan prepayment trends that are sourced using a combination of third-party prepayment models and internal historical experience, terminal maturity for non-maturity deposits, decay attrition, and pricing sensitivity derived from the Company's data and other internally-developed analysis and models. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually and are adjusted periodically to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company's balance sheet composition. As simulated model results are based on a number of assumptions outlined above, including forecasted market conditions, actual amounts may differ significantly from the projections set forth below should market conditions vary from the underlying assumptions. The Company's EVE model assumptions have not changed from the assumptions used in its December 31, 2022 simulation. 

This simulation model assesses the changes in the market value of interest rate sensitive financial instruments that would occur in response to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease (shock) in market interest rates. The Company will continue to evaluate the scenarios that are presented as interest rates change and will update these scenario disclosures as appropriate. 

The following table shows the Company's projected change in EVE for this set of rate shocks at December 31, 2023: 

Economic Value of Equity &#160; 

##TABLE_START Interest Rate Scenario Down 200 Down 100 Up 100 Up 200 (change in basis points from Base) % Change 15.3 % 8.1 % (7.2) % (13.2) % ##TABLE_END

At December 31, 2023, the Company's EVE exposure related to these hypothetical changes in market interest rates was within the Company's current guidelines. 

Derivative Contracts. In the normal course of business, the Company uses derivative instruments to meet the needs of its customers and manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For additional discussion on how derivatives in a hedging relationship (fair value hedges) are used to manage the Company's interest rate risk, see "Note 14. Derivatives and Hedging Activities" in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

