                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A.I. Copies Your Voice, Then Calls Up Your Bank................................................................................................... 2
          Merrill Lynch Penalized ............................................................................................................................................ 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A.I.CopiesYourVoice,ThenCallsUpYourBank                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          A.I. Copies Your Voice, Then Calls Up Your Bank                         
          By Emily Flitter and Stacy Cowley                                       
          1,467 words                                                             
          1 September 2023                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          This spring, Clive Kabatznik, an investor in Florida, called his local Bank of America representative to discuss
          a big money transfer he was planning to make. Then he called again.     
          Except the second phone call wasn't from Mr. Kabatznik. Rather, a software program had artificially
          generated his voice and tried to trick the banker into moving the money elsewhere.
          Mr. Kabatznik and his banker were the targets of a cutting-edge scam attempt that has grabbed the attention
          of cybersecurity experts: the use of artificial intelligence to generate voice deepfakes, or vocal renditions
          that mimic real people's voices.                                        
          The problem is still new enough that there is no comprehensive accounting of how often it happens. But one
          expert whose company, Pindrop, monitors the audio traffic for many of the largest U.S. banks said he had
          seen a jump in its prevalence this year -- and in the sophistication of scammers' voice fraud attempts. Another
          large voice authentication vendor, Nuance, saw its first successful deepfake attack on a financial services
          client late last year.                                                  
          In Mr. Kabatznik's case, the fraud was detectable. But the speed of technological development, the falling
          costs of generative artificial intelligence programs and the wide availability of recordings of people's voices on
          the internet have created the perfect conditions for voice-related A.I. scams.
          Customer data like bank account details that have been stolen by hackers -- and are widely available on
          underground markets -- help scammers pull off these attacks. They become even easier with wealthy clients,
          whose public appearances, including speeches, are often widely available on the internet. Finding audio
          samples for everyday customers can also be as easy as conducting an online search -- say, on social media
          apps like TikTok and Instagram -- for the name of someone whose bank account information the scammers
          already have.                                                           
          ''There's a lot of audio content out there,'' said Vijay Balasubramaniyan, the chief executive and a founder of
          Pindrop, which reviews automatic voice-verification systems for eight of the 10 largest U.S. lenders.
          Over the past decade, Pindrop has reviewed recordings of more than five billion calls coming into call centers
          run by the financial companies it serves. The centers handle products like bank accounts, credit cards and
          other services offered by big retail banks. All of the call centers receive calls from fraudsters, typically ranging
          from 1,000 to 10,000 a year. It's common for 20 calls to come in from fraudsters each week, Mr.
          Balasubramaniyan said.                                                  
          So far, fake voices created by computer programs account for only ''a handful'' of these calls, he said -- and
          they've begun to happen only within the past year.                      
          Most of the fake voice attacks that Pindrop has seen have come into credit card service call centers, where
          human representatives deal with customers needing help with their cards.
                                                                                  
          Mr. Balasubramaniyan played a reporter an anonymized recording of one such call that took place in March.
          Although a very rudimentary example -- the voice in this case sounds robotic, more like an e-reader than a
          person -- the call illustrates how scams could occur as A.I. makes it easier to imitate human voices.
          A banker can be heard greeting the customer. Then the voice, similar to an automated one, says, ''My card
          was declined.''                                                         
          ''May I ask whom I have the pleasure of speaking with?'' the banker replies.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ''My card was declined,'' the voice says again.                         
          The banker asks for the customer's name again. A silence ensues, during which the faint sound of keystrokes
          can be heard. According to Mr. Balasubramaniyan, the number of keystrokes correspond to the number of
          letters in the customer's name. The fraudster is typing words into a program that then reads them.
          In this instance, the caller's synthetic speech led the employee to transfer the call to a different department
          and flag it as potentially fraudulent, Mr. Balasubramaniyan said.       
                                                                                  
          Calls like the one he shared, which use type-to-text technology, are some of the easiest attacks to defend
          against: Call centers can use screening software to pick up technical clues that speech is
          machine-generated.                                                      
          ''Synthetic speech leaves artifacts behind, and a lot of anti-spoofing algorithms key off those artifacts,'' said
          Peter Soufleris, the chief executive of IngenID, a voice biometrics technology vendor.
          But, as with many security measures, it's an arms race between attackers and defenders -- and one that has
          recently evolved. A scammer can now simply speak into a microphone or type in a prompt and have that
          speech very quickly translated into the target's voice.                 
                                                                                  
          Mr. Balasubramaniyan noted that one generative A.I. system, Microsoft's VALL-E, could create a voice
          deepfake that said whatever a user wished using just three seconds of sampled audio.
          On ''60 Minutes'' in May, Rachel Tobac, a security consultant, used software to so convincingly clone the
          voice of Sharyn Alfonsi, one of the program's correspondents, that she fooled a ''60 Minutes'' employee into
          giving her Ms. Alfonsi's passport number.                               
          The attack took only five minutes to put together, said Ms. Tobac, the chief executive of SocialProof Security.
          The tool she used became available for purchase in January.             
          While scary deepfake demos are a staple of security conferences, real-life attacks are still extremely rare,
          said Brett Beranek, the general manager of security and biometrics at Nuance, a voice technology vendor
          that Microsoft acquired in 2021. The only successful breach of a Nuance customer, in October, took the
          attacker more than a dozen attempts to pull off.                        
          Mr. Beranek's biggest concern is not attacks on call centers or automated systems, like the voice biometrics
          systems that many banks have deployed. He worries about the scams where a caller reaches an individual
          directly.                                                               
                                                                                  
          ''I had a conversation just earlier this week with one of our customers,'' he said. ''They were saying, hey,
          Brett, it's great that we have our contact center secured -- but what if somebody just calls our C.E.O. directly
          on their cellphone and pretends to be somebody else?''                  
          That's what happened in Mr. Kabatznik's case. According to the banker's description, he appeared to be
          trying to get her to transfer money to a new location, but the voice was repetitive, talking over her and using
          garbled phrases. The banker hung up.                                    
          ''It was like I was talking to her, but it made no sense,'' Mr. Kabatznik said she had told him. (A Bank of
          America spokesman declined to make the banker available for an interview.)
          After two more calls like that came through in quick succession, the banker reported the matter to Bank of
          America's security team, Mr. Kabatznik said. Concerned about the security of Mr. Kabatznik's account, she
          stopped responding to his calls and emails -- even the ones that were coming from the real Mr. Kabatznik. It
          took about 10 days for the two of them to re-establish a connection, when Mr. Kabatznik arranged to visit her
          at her office.                                                          
          ''We regularly train our team to identify and recognize scams and help our clients avoid them,'' said William
          Halldin, a Bank of America spokesman. He said he could not comment on specific customers or their
          experiences.                                                            
          Though the attacks are getting more sophisticated, they stem from a basic cybersecurity threat that has
          been around for decades: a data breach that reveals the personal information of bank customers. From 2020
          to 2022, bits of personal data on more than 300 million people fell into the hands of hackers, leading to $8.8
          billion in losses, according to the Federal Trade Commission.           
          Once they've harvested a batch of numbers, hackers sift through the information and match it to real people.
          Those who steal the information are almost never the same people who end up with it. Instead, the thieves
          put it up for sale. Specialists can use any one of a handful of easily accessible programs to spoof target
          customers' phone numbers -- which is what likely happened in Mr. Kabatznik's case.
          Page 3 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Recordings of his voice are easy to find. On the internet there are videos of him speaking at a conference and
          participating in a fund-raiser.                                         
          ''I think it's pretty scary,'' Mr. Kabatznik said. ''The problem is, I don't know what you do about it. Do you just
          go underground and disappear?''                                         
          Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.                                      
                                                                                  
          Audio produced by Tally Abecassis.                                      
          Vijay Balasubramaniyan leads Pindrop, a voice-verification tech company. He said voice deepfakes so far
          account for only ''a handful'' of fraudulent calls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS FOR THE NEW
          YORK TIMES) (B5) This article appeared in print on page B1, B5.         
          Document NYTF000020230901ej9100032                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MerrillLynchPenalized                                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Merrill Lynch Penalized                                                 
          By Mengqi Sun                                                           
          267 words                                                               
          12 July 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Broker-dealer Merrill Lynch has agreed to pay a total of $12 million in fines to regulators for failing to file
          about 1,500 suspicious-activity reports over more than a decade.        
          Under U.S. anti-money-laundering rules, broker-dealers like Merrill Lynch are required to file
          suspicious-activity reports to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network on transactions above $5,000 when
          they might signal criminal activities, such as tax evasion, to assist U.S. government agencies in detecting and
          preventing money laundering.                                            
          Merrill Lynch's parent company, which was implementing the broker-dealer's anti-money-laundering
          program following Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill during the 2008-09 financial crisis, used a $25,000
          threshold, instead of the $5,000 one, for reporting SARs between 2009 and late 2019, the Securities and
          Exchange Commission said Tuesday.                                       
          Merrill agreed to pay $6 million to settle the SEC charges.             
          In a parallel enforcement action, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry's
          self-regulator, fined Merrill an additional $6 million for longstanding anti-money-laundering program failures,
          the regulator said Tuesday. Finra alleged Merrill failed to apply the right threshold for SARs reporting for more
          than 10 years and failed to file nearly 1,500 SARs to regulators.       
          "Following an internal review, we reported this matter to regulators and have enhanced our process and
          training regarding these filings," a spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch said in an email.
          Broker-dealers' compliance with filing SARs has been one of the top priorities for examinations by the SEC
          and Finra in recent years.                                              
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230712ej7c0001t                                      
          