                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Want This 6% CD? You Need $5 Million.................................................................................................................. 2
          A.I. Revolution Is Coming. Just When Is Hard to Say. ............................................................................................. 3
                                                                                  
          One Equity Is Probed On Investor Contacts ............................................................................................................ 6
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WantThis6%CD?YouNeed$5Million                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Want This 6% CD? You Need $5 Million                                    
          By Rachel Louise Ensign                                                 
          447 words                                                               
          29 September 2023                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase has got a deal for you -- if you have an extra $5 million lying around.
          The New York bank, the largest in the U.S., is offering customers of its private bank division a 6% rate on a
          six-month certificate of deposit if they put $5 million or more into the product.
          JPMorgan isn't exactly hurting for deposits. But like other banks, its overall deposits have declined since the
          Federal Reserve started raising interest rates in early 2022. Special rate offers are a bid to keep wealthy
          customers happy -- and maybe earn more of their business.               
          Mass-market customers shouldn't expect the same. JPMorgan is paying 5% to retail banking customers who
          put in $100,000 or more for the same period, according to its website. Customers who put in less than
          $100,000 can earn 4%.                                                   
          The bank's basic interest-bearing checking and savings accounts still pay just 0.01%.
                                                                                  
          Funds have to come from outside of JPMorgan to qualify for the 6% rate, the bank said. Other banks are
          advertising six-month CDs paying 5% or more.                            
          The 6% offer has some drawbacks. CDs don't have the same tax advantages that other products like
          Treasurys can provide. If the Fed starts cutting rates, it may be hard for customers to find a CD with the same
          yield once the product matures.                                         
          For years following the 2008-09 financial crisis, JPMorgan and other megabanks raked in deposits despite
          paying almost no interest on CDs and other products. Customers resigned themselves to earning nothing in
          exchange for access to big banks' technology and ubiquitous branch networks. After all, rates were pretty
          low everywhere.                                                         
          The deposit glut only intensified after the economic stimulus measures during the pandemic. JPMorgan
          added about $900 billion in deposits in 2020 and 2021.                  
                                                                                  
          The Fed's steep rate increases changed that picture. By the start of this year, wealthy customers in particular
          were moving their extra cash into Treasurys and money-market funds for higher rates.
          Over the past year, deposits in JPMorgan's asset- and wealth management unit have fallen 22%, far more
          than overall deposits. Wealth deposits are also down by double digits at competitors Bank of America and
          Wells Fargo.                                                            
          Banks are generally paying between 4% and 5% on new wealth-management deposits compared with
          around 2.5% to land regular customers' deposits, said Adam Stockton, a managing director at Curinos, a firm
          that tracks data including deposit rates. He said a 6% rate is very rare.
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's CD has a maximum deposit of $100 million. The offer ends Saturday.
          Document J000000020230929ej9t0006a                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A.I.RevolutionIsComing.JustWhenIsHardtoSay.                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          A.I. Revolution Is Coming. Just When Is Hard to Say.                    
          By Steve Lohr                                                           
          1,365 words                                                             
          4 September 2023                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          From steam power to the internet, there has always been a lag between technology invention and adoption
          across industries and the economy.                                      
          Lori Beer, the global chief information officer of JPMorgan Chase, talks about the latest artificial intelligence
          with the enthusiasm of a convert. She refers to A.I. chatbots like ChatGPT, with its ability to produce
          everything from poetry to computer programs, as ''transformative'' and a ''paradigm shift.''
          But it's not coming soon to the nation's largest bank. JPMorgan has blocked access to ChatGPT from its
          computers and told its 300,000 workers not to put any bank information into the chatbot or other generative
          A.I. tools.                                                             
          For now, Ms. Beer said, there are too many risks of leaking confidential data, questions about how the data is
          used and about the accuracy of the A.I.-generated answers. The bank has created a walled-off, private
          network to allow a few hundred data scientists and engineers to experiment with the technology. They are
          exploring uses like automating and improving tech support and software development.
          Across corporate America, the perspective is much the same. Generative A.I., the software engine behind
          ChatGPT, is seen as an exciting new wave of technology. But companies in every industry are mainly trying
          out the technology and thinking through the economics. Widespread use of it at many companies could be
          years away.                                                             
          Generative A.I., according to forecasts, could sharply boost productivity and add trillions of dollars to the
          global economy. Yet the lesson of history, from steam power to the internet, is that there is a lengthy lag
          between the arrival of major new technology and its broad adoption -- which is what transforms industries
          and helps fuel the economy.                                             
          Take the internet. In the 1990s, there were confident predictions that the internet and the web would disrupt
          the retailing, advertising and media industries. Those predictions proved to be true, but that was more than a
          decade later, well after the dot-com bubble had burst.                  
          Over that time, the technology improved and costs dropped, so bottlenecks fell away. Broadband internet
          connections eventually became commonplace. Easy-to-use payment systems were developed. Audio and
          video streaming technology became far better.                           
          Fueling the development were a flood of money and a surge of entrepreneurial trial and error.
                                                                                  
          ''We're going to see a similar gold rush this time,'' said Vijay Sankaran, chief technology officer of Johnson
          Controls, a large supplier of building equipment, software and services. ''We'll see a lot of learning.''
          The investment frenzy is well underway. In the first half of 2023, funding for generative A.I. start-ups reached
          $15.3 billion, nearly three times the total for all of last year, according to PitchBook, which tracks start-up
          investments.                                                            
          Corporate technology managers are sampling generative A.I. software from a host of suppliers and watching
          to see how the industry shakes out.                                     
                                                                                  
          In November, when ChatGPT was made available to the public, it was a ''Netscape moment'' for generative
          A.I., said Rob Thomas, IBM's chief commercial officer, referring to Netscape's introduction of the browser in
          1994. ''That brought the internet alive,'' Mr. Thomas said. But it was just a beginning, opening a door to new
          business opportunities that took years to exploit.                      
          Page 3 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In a recent report, the McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, included a timeline
          for the widespread adoption of generative A.I. applications. It assumed steady improvement in currently
          known technology, but not future breakthroughs. Its forecast for mainstream adoption was neither short nor
          precise, a range of eight to 27 years.                                  
          The broad range is explained by plugging in different assumptions about economic cycles, government
          regulation, corporate cultures and management decisions.                
          ''We're not modeling the laws of physics here; we're modeling economics and societies, and people and
          companies,'' said Michael Chui, a partner at the McKinsey Global Institute. ''What happens is largely the
          result of human choices.''                                              
          Technology diffuses across the economy through people, who bring their skills to new industries. A few
          months ago, Davis Liang left an A.I. group at Meta to join Abridge, a health care start-up that records and
          summarizes patient visits for physicians. Its generative A.I. software can save doctors from hours of typing up
          patient notes and billing reports.                                      
          Mr. Liang, a 29-year-old computer scientist, has been an author on scientific papers and helped build
          so-called large language models that animate generative A.I.            
                                                                                  
          His skills are in demand these days. Mr. Liang declined to say, but people with his experience and
          background at generative A.I. start-ups are typically paid a base salary of more than $200,000, and stock
          grants can potentially take the total compensation far higher.          
          The main appeal of Abridge, Mr. Liang said, was applying the ''superpowerful tool'' of A.I. in health care and
          ''improving the working lives of physicians.'' He was recruited by Zachary Lipton, a former research scientist
          in Amazon's A.I. group, who is an assistant professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Mr. Lipton joined Abridge
          early this year as chief scientific officer.                            
          ''We're not working on ads or something like that,'' Mr. Lipton said. ''There is a level of fulfillment when you're
          getting thank-you letters from physicians every day.''                  
          Significant new technologies are flywheels for follow-on innovation, spawning start-ups that build applications
          to make the underlying technology useful and accessible. In its early years, the personal computer was seen
          as a hobbyist's plaything. But the creation of the spreadsheet program -- the ''killer app'' of its day -- made the
          PC an essential tool in business.                                       
          Sarah Nagy led a data science team at Citadel, a giant investment firm, in 2020 when she first tinkered with
          GPT-3. It was more than two years before OpenAI released ChatGPT. But the power of the fundamental
          technology was apparent in 2020.                                        
          Ms. Nagy was particularly impressed by the software's ability to generate computer code from text
          commands. That, she figured, could help democratize data analysis inside companies, making it broadly
          accessible to businesspeople instead of an elite group.                 
                                                                                  
          In 2021, Ms. Nagy founded Seek AI to pursue that goal. The New York start-up now has about two dozen
          customers in the technology, retail and finance industries, mostly working on pilot projects.
          Using Seek AI's software, a retail manager, for example, could type in questions about product sales, ad
          campaigns and online versus in-store performance to guide marketing strategy and spending. The software
          then transforms the words into a computer-coded query, searches the company's storehouse of data, and
          returns answers in text or retrieves the relevant data.                 
          Businesspeople, Ms. Nagy said, can get answers almost instantly or within a day instead of a couple of
          weeks, if they have to make a request for something that requires the attention of a member of a data science
          team.                                                                   
          ''At the end of the day, we're trying to reduce the time it takes to get an answer or useful data,'' Ms. Nagy
          said.                                                                   
          Saving time and streamlining work inside companies are the prime early targets for generative A.I. in most
          businesses. New products and services will come later.                  
                                                                                  
          This year, JPMorgan trademarked IndexGPT as a possible name for a generative A.I.-driven investment
          advisory product.                                                       
          ''That's something we will look at and continue to assess over time,'' said Ms. Beer, the bank's tech leader.
          ''But it's not close to launching yet.''                                
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Sarah Nagy left the investment firm Citadel to found the artificial intelligence start-up Seek . ''We're trying to
          reduce the time it takes to get an answer or useful data,'' she said. Davis Liang, right, left the A.I. group at
          Meta to join Abridge, a health care start-up that is trying to help doctors with their paperwork.
          (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVELYN FREJA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; GELOY CONCEPCION FOR THE
          NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) This article appeared in print on page B1, B3.     
          Document NYTF000020230904ej9400047                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          OneEquityIsProbedOnInvestorContacts                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          One Equity Is Probed On Investor Contacts                               
          By Laura Cooper and Dave Michaels                                       
          343 words                                                               
          19 July 2023                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether private-equity firm One Equity Partners'
          communications with investors about its past and future performance violated rules.
          One Equity, which was once JPMorgan Chase's buyout arm, has recently been in settlement talks with the
          SEC, people familiar with the matter said. Regulators have sought a fine of as much as $5 million, although
          One Equity hasn't agreed to that amount and the penalty could be lower, one of the people said.
          The SEC's multiyear investigation has looked at communications Dick Cashin, the firm's president, had with
          investors about fund performance and whether he conveyed confidential information other parties could have
          traded on. Regulators didn't find insider trading or misuse of the firm's information, the person said.
          Cashin didn't respond to requests for comment.                          
          "OEP has been fully cooperating with an SEC inquiry," the firm said. "We believe that the resolution of this
          matter will not materially impact ongoing operations or any of the funds. We continue to work diligently to
          ensure that best-in-class compliance policies and procedures are adhered to by all employees." An SEC
          spokesman declined to comment.                                          
          The SEC tightly regulates how investment advisers and money managers handle material nonpublic
          information and advertise their past and future performance. Firms generally need to follow policies they have
          established when they promote or advertise their performance to investors.
                                                                                  
          Even when regulators don't find substantive wrongdoing such as insider trading or mismarking investments,
          they can fault financial firms for lesser offenses such as faulty compliance programs or poor adherence to
          those policies.                                                         
          The SEC has previously investigated how other investment advisers safeguard material nonpublic
          information. That can be a concern for private-equity managers with employees on the boards of companies
          they own.                                                               
          New York-based One Equity focuses on midmarket investments in the technology, healthcare and industrial
          sectors in North America and Europe. It has about $10 billion in assets under management.
          Document J000000020230719ej7j0001n                                      
                                                                                  
          