                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Regional Banks Get Downgrade And Stocks Edge Down --- Reaction suggests sector remains at risk to problems
          that stirred spring panic ............................................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          RegionalBanksGetDowngradeAndStocksEdgeDown---Reactionsuggestssectorremainsatrisktoproblemsthatstirredspringpanic
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Regional Banks Get Downgrade And Stocks Edge Down --- Reaction suggests sector remains at risk
          to problems that stirred spring panic                                   
          By Gina Heeb and Josh Mitchell                                          
          899 words                                                               
          9 August 2023                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Moody's Investors Service downgraded 10 regional banks, sending bank shares down and renewing
          concerns about the health of the sector amid higher interest rates and recent failures.
          The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index and the SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF both slipped about 1%.
          The Moody's downgrades late Monday hit the regional powerhouse M&T Bank as well as a number of smaller
          banks. Webster Financial, BOK Financial and Old National Bancorp were among the other banks that
          Moody's downgraded. Shares of all of those banks traded lower.          
          The reaction suggests the sector remains vulnerable to the problems that stirred a panic this spring after the
          failures of several midsize lenders: devalued bonds, jittery investors, deposit withdrawals and higher costs.
          "There has been more funding pressure, more deposit pressure in the U.S. banking system than we have
          seen in a long time," Jill Cetina, Moody's associate managing director and one of the writers on the research
          report, told The Wall Street Journal.                                   
                                                                                  
          At the same time, markets broadly are on edge about the possibility of a pullback. Stocks have managed to
          zoom higher for much of the year, despite a persistent fear about how the Federal Reserve's higher-for-longer
          interest rates will play out across the economy.                        
          The banking sector has been under particular scrutiny ever since Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and
          First Republic Bank collapsed earlier this year. The banks were caught flat-footed byhigher interest rates,
          which have forced lenders to pay more for deposits and weakened the value of their securities and loans.
          Deposits at many regional banks have stabilized after a hairy first quarter, but investors are still worried.
          Bank stocks broadly are down for the year, with the KBW Nasdaq off by 13%. The S&P 500 is up 17% even
          with last week's decline.                                               
          All of the Moody's cuts were by a single notch, and all the banks remain investment-grade. "Big picture, we
          think that U.S. banks are still very strong," Cetina said.              
          Moody's said it would review its ratings on several other larger banks, including U.S. Bancorp, Truist Financial,
          Bank of New York Mellon and State Street.                               
                                                                                  
          The firm assigned a negative outlook to PNC Financial Services Group, Citizens Financial Group and Fifth
          Third Bancorp, among others.                                            
          Bank shares were down across the board. Stocks were broadly lower, with the major indexes down.
                                                                                  
          Shares of megabanks also fell. Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo all traded
          lower.                                                                  
          The Federal Reserve's campaign to lift interest rates to combat inflation "continues to have a material impact
          on the U.S. banking system's funding and its economic capital," Moody's said in its report.
          Higher rates have continued to reduce the value of bonds and other assets owned by regional banks, leaving
          the lenders with "sizable unrealized losses" and vulnerable to share-price drops if investors get spooked,
          Moody's said.                                                           
                                                                                  
          Customers have been shifting cash into accounts that pay higher interest, driving up costs for lenders and
          eroding profitability.                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "There remains a significant risk that systemwide deposits will resume their decline in coming quarters,"
          Moody's said.                                                           
          The biggest banks have been relatively immune from this year's bank crisis. JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and
          Bank of America all reported higher profits in the second quarter, boosted by their ability to charge more on
          loans.                                                                  
          And while even the largest banks are paying more in interest to keep yield-hungry customers from yanking
          their deposits, the extra expense can be hard on smaller banks that often don't have big fee-based
          businesses to lean on.                                                  
          "Everybody's kind of feeling that pressure," Terry Dolan, chief financial officer at U.S. Bancorp, said in an
          interview with The Wall Street Journal last month. "The smaller the bank, you're probably going to have a bit
          more."                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Chris Marinac, director of research at Janney Montgomery Scott, said second-quarter results showed the
          sector remains sound and that the slump in bank stocks Tuesday reflected a "knee-jerk reaction" to the
          downgrades.                                                             
          "There's not fabulous profitability, but they can still make money," he said. "Moody's has now shouted an
          alarm bell that really isn't anything new."                             
          M&T declined to comment. BOK Financial said the downgrade was driven by factors that influence the
          broader industry, rather than just the Oklahoma-based bank specifically. The bank said it is "positioned well to
          compete and grow" and that it didn't expect the downgrade to have a "material impact."
          Moody's also pointed to the prospect that a recession in early 2024 could erode demand for loans and lead to
          loan defaults.                                                          
                                                                                  
          Banks could be hit by problems in commercial real estate, the firm said, including higher interest rates, vacant
          offices due to the shift toward remote work, and reduced availability of credit.
          Shares of European banks also dropped Tuesday after the Italian government announced a windfall tax on
          local lenders.                                                          
          If it is passed, local banks would place a one-off levy of 40% on income from higher interest rates.
                                                                                  
          The Italian bank giant Intesa Sanpaolo shed nearly 9%, its worst session in more than a year. UniCredit fell
          6%.                                                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020230809ej890001s                                      
          