 Item 1. Business 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Organization 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC USA Inc. ("HSBC USA") is incorporated under the laws of the State of Maryland and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. ("HSBC North America"), which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc ("HSBC" and, together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Group"). HSBC USA's principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries. In this Form 10-K, HSBC USA and its subsidiaries are referred to as "HUSI," "we," "us" and "our." 

HSBC Group 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC Group aims to be the leading international bank helping personal, wealth and corporate clients thrive through its deep heritage and is a leading provider of transactional banking products and services with a geographical network which provides clients and investors access to what it believes are the most attractive growth opportunities. HSBC Group seeks growth where the opportunities best align with its strengths, focused on enabling and supporting business and trade between the developed world and the faster growing, higher returning markets of the world, particularly in Asia and the Middle East. In 2020, HSBC Group announced that the more challenging economic environment would require strategic changes in order to increase returns and create capacity for future growth. These strategic changes include materially reshaping underperforming areas of HSBC Group, particularly in Global Banking and Markets, in Europe, and in the United States. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview - 2021 Events." 

HSBC North America Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC North America is the holding company for HSBC Group's operations in the United States. The principal subsidiaries of HSBC North America at December 31, 2021 were HSBC USA, HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. ("HMUS"), a holding company for certain subsidiaries primarily associated with global banking and markets businesses, and HSBC Technology &#38; Services (USA) Inc. ("HTSU"), a provider of information technology and centralized operational and support services including risk management, compliance, operations, finance, tax, legal, human resources, corporate affairs and other services shared among the subsidiaries of HSBC North America and the HSBC Group. HSBC USA's principal U.S. banking subsidiary is HSBC Bank USA, National Association (together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Bank USA"). Under the oversight of HSBC North America, HUSI works with its affiliates to maximize opportunities and efficiencies in HSBC Group's operations in the United States. These affiliates do so by providing each other with, among other things, alternative sources of liquidity to fund operations and expertise in specialized corporate functions and services through the pooling of resources within HTSU to provide shared, allocated support functions to all of HSBC North America's subsidiaries. In addition, clients of HSBC Bank USA and other affiliates are investors in debt issued by HSBC USA and/or HSBC Bank USA, providing significant sources of liquidity to both entities. HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. ("HSI"), a registered broker dealer and a subsidiary of HMUS, generally leads or participates as underwriter of all HUSI domestic issuances of term debt. While neither HSBC USA nor HSBC Bank USA has received advantaged pricing, the underwriting fees and commissions paid to HSI historically have benefited the HSBC Group. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

HSBC USA Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

In support of HSBC Group's strategy, our U.S. operations are focused on the core activities of our global businesses and a Corporate Center, as discussed below, and the positioning of our activities towards international connectivity strategies, including what we believe are our unique capabilities to serve clients in the North American trade corridor. 

&#8226; Our Wealth and Personal Banking ("WPB") business provides a range of banking and wealth products and services to individuals and entities, including high net worth and ultra-high net worth individuals and their families, focusing on internationally-minded customers in large metropolitan centers on the West and East coasts. 

&#8226; Our Commercial Banking ("CMB") business serves corporate and business banking clients, focused on selected large cities with strong international trade ties. 

&#8226; Our Global Banking and Markets ("GBM") business serves top-tier multinational clients across the Americas and globally. 

&#8226; Our Corporate Center ("CC") comprises certain centralized activities and functions in order to better reflect the way we manage our businesses. 

HSBC Bank USA, HSBC USA's principal U.S. banking subsidiary, is a national banking association. Through HSBC Bank USA, we offer our customers a wide range of commercial and consumer banking products and related financial services. HSBC Bank USA is also an international dealer in derivative instruments denominated in U.S. dollars and other currencies, focusing on structuring transactions to meet clients' needs. 

HSBC USA also owns a nationally chartered limited purpose bank subsidiary, HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), National Association ("HTCD"), the primary activities of which are providing personal trust services. The impact of HTCD's operations on HSBC USA's consolidated balance sheets and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was not material. 

At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 1.49 million customers, including customers associated with the 90 branches that we decided to sell as discussed further below, and some of whom are customers of more than one of our businesses. Customers in the States of California and New York accounted for 35 percent and 32 percent, respectively, of our total outstanding commercial real estate loans and residential mortgage loans, excluding loans held for sale. 

We report financial information to our ultimate parent, HSBC, in accordance with HSBC Group accounting and reporting policies, which apply International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). As a result, our segment results are prepared and presented using financial information prepared on the basis of HSBC Group's accounting and reporting policies ("Group Reporting Basis"). We continue, however, to monitor capital adequacy and report to regulatory agencies in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). For additional financial information relating to our business and operating segments, as well as a summary of the significant differences between U.S. GAAP and the Group Reporting Basis as they impact our results, see Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Wealth and Personal Banking Our WPB business segment provides a range of banking and wealth products and services to individuals and entities through our branches, on-line channels as well as dedicated relationship managers, centralized teams and representative offices. Banking and certain exempt securities services are provided through HSBC Bank USA, brokerage and investment advisory services and annuities are provided through our affiliate HSI and additional insurance products are offered through the bank's subsidiary, HSBC Insurance Agency (USA) Inc. These services include asset-driven services, such as credit and lending; liability-driven services, such as deposit taking; and account services and fee- or commission-driven services, such as investment advisory and securities brokerage; as well as the sale of certain third-party insurance solutions. WPB is focused on growing its wealth and banking business in key urban centers with strong international connectivity across the United States, including New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Miami and Washington DC. 

In May 2021, we announced that we will exit our mass market retail banking business, including our Personal and Advance propositions as well as retail business banking, and focus on the banking and wealth management needs of globally-connected affluent and high net worth customers through our Premier, Jade or Private Banking services. In conjunction with the execution of this strategy, we have entered into definitive sale agreements with third parties to sell 90 of our retail branches along with substantially all residential mortgage, unsecured and retail business banking loans and all deposits in our branch network not associated with our Premier, Jade and Private Banking customers. We completed these sales in February 2022. We will rebrand approximately 20-25 of our retail branches into international wealth centers to serve our Premier and Jade customers and the remaining branches not sold or rebranded will be closed. 

Following completion of these transactions, WPB will focus on serving high net worth and ultra-high net worth individuals and entities with a focus on multi-generational families, business executives and entrepreneurs who require sophisticated solutions to help meet their most complex needs domestically and abroad, with many customers sourced in collaboration with our other 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

business lines. WPB works with these customers to provide tailored, coordinated and innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while seeking to optimize returns by offering a wide range of products and services, including banking, liquidity management, investment services, custody, tailored lending, trust and fiduciary services, insurance, family wealth and philanthropy advisory services. 

Commercial Banking The goal of our CMB business segment is to be the banking partner of choice for international businesses building on our rich heritage, international capabilities and customer relationships to enable global connectivity. CMB strives to execute this vision and strategy by focusing on key markets with high concentrations of international connectivity. Our CMB segment serves the markets through three client groups, notably Large Corporate, Middle Market and Business Banking. Supporting our three client groups is our International Subsidiary Banking team, which provides solutions to international subsidiaries operating in the United States. We also have a specialized Commercial Real Estate group, which focuses on selective business opportunities in markets where we have strong portfolio expertise. This structure allows us to align our resources in order to efficiently deliver suitable products and services based on our clients' needs and abilities. Global Liquidity and Cash Management ("GLCM"), Global Trade and Receivables Finance ("GTRF"), Lending and Transaction Management, Global Banking and Markets and Securities Services are key product groups that CMB partners with to deliver the global connections and related products and services required by customers. Whether it is through commercial centers, the retail branch network, or via HSBC net , our online banking channel , CMB provides customers with the products and services needed to grow their businesses internationally and delivers those products and services through its relationship managers who operate within a robust, customer focused compliance and risk culture, and collaborate across HSBC Group to capture a larger percentage of a relationship. 

Global Banking and Markets Our GBM business supports HSBC's global strategy by leveraging the HSBC Group's advantages and scale, strength in developed and emerging markets and product expertise in order to focus on delivering international products to U.S. clients and local products to international clients, with New York as the hub for the Americas business, which includes Canada and Latin America. GBM provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients. GBM clients are served by sector-focused teams that bring together relationship managers and product specialists to develop financial solutions that meet individual client needs. With a focus on providing client connectivity between the emerging markets and developed markets, GBM aims to develop a comprehensive understanding of each client's financial requirements with a long-term relationship management approach. In addition to GBM clients, GBM also provides financial solutions to WPB and CMB clients where those clients have needs that require the product set that GBM has available. 

Our GBM business is comprised of three distinct operating segments: 

&#8226; Global Banking ("GB") provides banking and financing advice and solutions for sovereign, corporate and institutional clients, including loans, working capital, GTRF product offerings, GLCM product and service offerings, leveraged and acquisition finance, project and infrastructure finance, asset finance, mergers and acquisitions advisory, as well as capital raising in the debt and equity capital markets. 

&#8226; Markets and Securities Services ("MSS") provides 24-hour coverage and knowledge of world-wide local markets, including services in credit and rates, foreign exchange, precious metals trading, equities and securities services. MSS includes revenues for certain products and services sold to GB clients that are not reflected in the GB segment. 

&#8226; Global Banking and Markets Other ("GBM Other") includes activities performed on behalf of other HSBC affiliates, allocated Markets Treasury and certain corporate funding charges not assigned to products. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we implemented a change to our internal management reporting to align with changes to the governance structure and how we assess performance of our GBM business, which is now being reported as three separate operating segments: GB, MSS and GBM Other. As a result, we have aligned our segment reporting to reflect this change for all periods presented. 

Corporate Center Our CC segment includes our legacy structured credit products, certain corporate function costs, certain debt issued for which fair value option accounting was elected and related derivatives, certain affiliate transactions, tax credit investments and adjustments to the fair value of HSBC shares held for stock plans. Beginning in 2020, CC also includes certain costs incurred relating to the delivery of our restructuring plan primarily consisting of lease impairment and other related costs, as well as severance costs allocated to us from HTSU and other HSBC affiliates. 

Our Markets Treasury function is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of our Asset and Liability Management Committee. Markets Treasury also manages our structural interest rate position within a limit structure. The majority of the liquidity is invested in interest bearing deposits with Federal Reserve banks and U.S. Government and other high quality securities. Markets Treasury is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to manage interest rate risk. Derivative activity comprises predominantly the use of interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow hedging relationships. Credit risk in Markets Treasury is predominantly limited to short-term exposure created by exposure to banks as well as high quality sovereigns or agencies which constitute the majority of their liquidity portfolio. Markets Treasury manages interest rate 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

risk and liquidity and funding risk. Markets Treasury income statement and balance sheet results are allocated to each of the global businesses based upon tangible equity levels and levels of any surplus liabilities. 

Funding 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We fund our operations using a diversified deposit base, supplemented by issuing short-term and long-term unsecured debt, secured financing repurchase agreements utilizing High Quality Liquid Assets ("HQLA"), accessing the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, issuing preferred equity, and, as necessary, receiving capital contributions from our parent, HSBC North America. Emphasis is placed on maintaining stable deposit balances. In 2021, our primary source of funds continued to be deposits, augmented by issuances of commercial paper, securities sold under repurchase agreements and term debt. 

Numerous factors, both internal and external, may impact our access to, and the costs associated with, both retail and wholesale sources of funding. These factors may include our debt ratings, overall economic conditions, overall capital markets volatility, the counterparty credit limits of investors to the HSBC Group, and our management of the credit risks inherent in our business and customer base. 

A detailed description of our sources and availability of funding are set forth in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&#38;A"). 

The cash generated by these funding sources is primarily used to service our debt obligations, originate new loans, purchase investment securities, pay preferred dividends and, as available and appropriate, common dividends to our parent. 

Human Capital 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

At December 31, 2021, we had 3,463 employees. We rely heavily on Human Resource ("HR") services provided by an affiliate, HTSU, which supports our HR related activities including HR Operations, Performance and Reward, Learning and Talent Development, Resourcing and Onboarding, and Employee Relations while working with our business segments and support functions to help achieve our business objectives. 

By focusing on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion and engagement, as well as building our peoples' skills and capabilities for now and for the future, we aim to create an environment where our people can fulfill their potential. We use confidential surveys to assess progress and make changes in response to issues raised in the surveys. We want to have an open culture where our people feel connected, supported to speak up and where our leaders encourage feedback. Where we make organizational changes, we support our people throughout the change and in particular, where there are job losses. 

How we listen to our employees We capture our employees' views and engage in dialogue with employees based on their feedback on a range of topics, such as our strategy, culture, behavior, well-being and working environment, through our employee survey, Snapshot. Results are presented to the US Executive Committee, as well as the Group Executive Committee and relevant management committees. 

We continue to closely monitor the outbreak of the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic. The well-being of our customers and our employees is important to us, and we will continue to take efforts to ensure their safety and support them through this difficult time. 

When things go wrong HSBC Confidential is a global whistleblowing platform that enables our people, past and present, to raise concerns in confidence. HSBC does not condone or tolerate any acts of retaliation against those who raise concerns. 

Whistleblowing concerns are investigated thoroughly and independently. Remedial action, taken where appropriate, includes disciplinary action, dismissal, and adjustments to variable pay and performance ratings. 

We rely on our employees to deliver fair outcomes for our customers and make sure we act with integrity in the financial markets. A high standard of personal conduct is critical to our ability to live up to this commitment and ensure a healthy working environment. We manage misconduct by taking action, as appropriate, up to and including dismissal. We report cases on a regular basis to management committees. Bullying and harassment of any type are not tolerated and we have strict processes to manage this behavior. 

Remuneration Our pay and performance strategy aims to reward competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance in an effort to attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance or experience with HUSI, while performing their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The quality and commitment of our employees is fundamental to our success and, accordingly, we aim to attract, retain and motivate them. As trust and relationships are vital in our business, our goal is to recruit those who are committed to a long-term career with us. 

Certain employees participate in HSBC's Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Restricted Share Plan. See Note 21, "Share-Based Plans," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further detail. 

Diversity and inclusion We are committed to a company-wide approach to diversity and inclusion. We want to embrace our employees' diverse ideas, styles and perspectives to reflect and understand our customers, communities, suppliers and investors. 

HSBC's Global Principles outline that our employees must treat each other with dignity and respect, creating an inclusive culture to support equal opportunities. We do not tolerate discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimization. Our US Executive Committee members are responsible for our inclusion and culture agenda. 

In July 2020, we announced plans to improve diversity and inclusion. The leadership team agreed to a set of six pillars through which we believe we can make meaningful progress toward advancing inclusion for all under-represented and diverse groups. These six pillars comprise the following objectives: 

&#8226; Accountability &#8211; To build upon the foundation of our efforts in diversity and inclusion and to expand beyond that to reach our customers and communities that we serve. 

&#8226; Recruiting and Retention &#8211; To increase the pipeline of diverse candidates, focusing on the ethnicities with the lowest representation. 

&#8226; Representation &#8211; To improve representation across diversity groups, particularly at the more senior levels. 

&#8226; Advancing the Conversation &#8211; To encourage and actively facilitate dialogue about inclusion and equality. 

&#8226; Strategic Giving and Community Engagement &#8211; To target strategic giving to support equality-focused and diverse organizations and initiatives. 

&#8226; Who we do Business with &#8211; To accelerate our commitment to improving representation of minority-owned companies among our vendors. 

A key component of this plan is the US Head of Inclusion and Culture, a role which reports directly to the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and is focused on expanding our diversity and inclusion efforts. This role will help us make quicker progress in advancing opportunities for our employees, expanding our customer demographic and investing in the communities that need our help the most. 

In 2021, we continued our focus on increasing the representation of women in senior leadership roles. We are currently tracking to meet our contribution to the global goal for women in senior leadership positions of 35 percent by 2025. 

We review our pay practices internally and with independent third parties and make adjustments if pay differences are identified that are not due to objective, tangible reasons such as performance or skills and experience. We have a gender pay gap that is driven by the composition of our workforce. There continues to be more men than women in senior, high-paid roles and more women in junior roles. We are committed to reducing our gender pay gap as we deliver on our goal to increase the number of women in senior roles. 

We are committed to increasing the representation and inclusion of Black talent. Globally an objective has been set to increase the number of Black colleagues in senior leadership roles by 2025. The US is using our six pillar strategy, particularly recruiting, retention and development initiatives to contribute to achieving that objective. 

Our employees also are encouraged to participate in a number of Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"). These ERGs are voluntary, company-endorsed employee groups dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment within the context of our mission, values, goals, business parameters and objectives. Resource groups typically form around a specific dimension of diversity such as age, gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, etc. The purpose of an ERG is to provide a support network for employees to foster the professional growth, development and education of its members. In addition, ERGs not only support organizational diversity and inclusion efforts, but identify and lobby for initiatives that will improve the sense of belonging for its members. ERGs are invaluable in providing the organization with feedback from employees to decision-makers, and serving as touch points for engaging all employees in diversity efforts. 

Employment of people with a disability We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in this commitment. The recruitment, training, career development and promotion of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. We continually look for ways to support employees with disabilities. In 2021 we approved the use of Zoom Closed Captioning, which through the use of Communication Access Real-Time Transcriber generates closed captions in real time to support colleagues with hearing disabilities. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Learning and skills development We understand that to have a skilled and capable workforce for today and the future, we must invest in our employees at all stages of their careers. We measure our success through our retention, engagement scores, internal mobility and from external awards. 

We provide training through HSBC University, our online learning portal and global network of training centers, which we launched in 2017. HSBC University assists our employees in developing technical and role-based skills, as well as personal skills. We put a strong emphasis on leadership skills to foster a culture of curiosity, innovation, collaboration and performance. Our training has a strong foundation in good conduct, with topics including managing non-financial risk, data privacy, cybersecurity, anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-bribery and corruption, insider risk, competition law, raising concerns, workplace harassment and well-being. We also introduced a range of self-directed resources and workshops to improve team cohesion and performance. 

We target a 98 percent completion rate for mandatory training on our values, strategy and approach to risk management. This helps keep our people aware of the risks we face so they can make better decisions to grow our business in a safe way. 

Building for the future Developing our future leaders is critical to our long-term success. The Executive Committee dedicates time to articulate the current and future capabilities required to deliver the business strategy, and identify successors for our most critical roles. Successors then undergo robust assessment and participate in our executive development programs, which have been designed and delivered in collaboration with some of the world's best business schools. Potential successors for senior roles also benefit from coaching and mentoring, and are moved into roles that will build their skills and capabilities. 

Developing core skills Our suite of manager training and skills development was redesigned to focus on the skills that we believe are most important in the current environment - leading and supporting teams though change. Our managers are the critical link to supporting individuals and teams. 

Risk management remains central to development at HSBC and is part of our mandatory training for all colleagues. For colleagues in roles at higher risk of exposure to financial wrongdoing, we provide more in depth training on financial risks such as money laundering, sanctions, bribery and corruption. We also have programs and resources to address specific areas of risk, such as those relating to the management of third party suppliers. 

Our cyber hub brings together training, insights, events and campaigns to provide a one-stop shop on how to combat cyber-crime. We are also supporting leaders and model developers with training that helps them understand and apply our principles on the ethical use of big data and artificial intelligence. 

Embedding inclusion Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is reflected in our learning and talent programs. We continued to bolster existing online learning to help leaders address any behavioral biases. We pay specific attention on how we select and promote candidates for roles and how colleagues can readily access opportunities. 

Adapting through COVID-19 Restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a halt to classroom learning and rapid expansion of our virtual learning. We prioritized supporting the transition to remote working and helping colleagues manage their well-being. 

We converted or re-built hundreds of our technical, professional and personal classroom programs to be delivered by instructors online. This included supporting new joiners to HSBC with an immersive virtual induction program and virtual internships. 

Health and safety We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for everyone. We strive to ensure best health and safety management practices are adopted across HUSI or standards that reflect HSBC core values. 

Putting our commitment into practice, we continue to deliver a range of programs to help us understand and manage effectively the risks we face and improve the buildings in which we operate: 

&#8226; COVID-19 safe workplaces were implemented based on expert medical advice and designed to protect our employees, contractors and customers from the risks of COVID-19. This included enhanced cleaning, training and awareness, signage, social distancing measures, public hygiene and track and trace measures. 

&#8226; We enhanced our existing working from home policy with more awareness and best practices to be adopted during these unprecedented times. 

&#8226; Our employees completed an improved health and safety training and awareness program ensuring roles and responsibilities were clear and understood. 

&#8226; All of our buildings had an annual safety inspection (subject to local COVID-19 restrictions) to ensure we were meeting our standards, and continuously improving our safety performance. 

&#8226; Our suite of management information dashboards were further enhanced, including a COVID-19 and a permit to work dashboard for high risk activities throughout the year. 

Supporting our employees through organizational change To ensure we have the right roles in the right locations, our businesses regularly re-evaluate their structures. We strive to support colleagues closely through all organizational change, 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

which will include those who will be affected by our business update. Our focus is to prioritize retention of our permanent employees through mechanisms such as redeployment. Redundancies were necessary in 2021, and we sought to treat people fairly and responsibly. Where appropriate, we provided suitable notice periods. We use objective and appropriate selection criteria for redundancies. We prohibit selection on grounds linked to personal characteristics, for example gender, race, age or having raised past concerns. Additionally, we provided employees access to counselling via employee assistance programs and career transition. 

Regulation and Competition 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Regulation We are subject to, among other things, an extensive statutory and regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks. U.S. regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for safety and soundness of banks, and the protection of the interests of depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole rather than the protection of security holders and creditors. 

Bank Holding Company Supervision As a bank holding company ("BHC"), we are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHC Act"), and to inspection, examination and supervision by our primary regulator, the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"). We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

In addition, the FRB requires certain large non-U.S. banks with significant operations in the United States, such as HSBC, to establish a single intermediate holding company ("IHC") to hold all of their U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The HSBC Group operates in the United States through such an IHC structure (i.e., HSBC North America). 

Financial Holding Company Regulation HSBC USA and its parent BHC qualified as financial holding companies pursuant to the amendments to the BHC Act effected by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 ("GLB Act"). Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities than bank holding companies ("BHCs"). Under regulations implemented by the FRB, if any financial holding company, or any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company, ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the FRB may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, the FRB may require divestiture of the holding company's depository institutions or its affiliates engaged in broader financial activities in reliance on the GLB Act if the deficiencies persist. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the "CRA"), as amended, the FRB must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for BHCs that are not financial holding companies. 

Under the FRB supervisory rating system, IHCs and large BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including HSBC North America and HSBC USA, receive separate ratings from the FRB for (i) capital planning and positions, (ii) liquidity risk management and positions, and (iii) governance and controls. A covered BHC that receives a deficient rating for any of the three components is not considered to be "well managed." 

We are generally prohibited under the BHC Act from acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of more than five percent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially all the assets of, or exercising control over, any U.S. bank, BHC or many other types of depository institutions and/or their holding companies without the prior approval of the FRB and, potentially, other U.S. banking regulatory agencies. 

The GLB Act and the regulations issued thereunder contain a number of other provisions that affect our operations and those of our subsidiary banks, including regulations and restrictions on the activities we may conduct and the types of businesses and entities we may acquire. Furthermore, other provisions contain detailed requirements relating to the financial privacy of consumers. In addition, the so-called 'push-out' provisions of the GLB Act removed the blanket exemption from registration for securities and brokerage activities conducted in banks (including HSBC Bank USA) under the Exchange Act. Applicable regulations allow banks to continue to avoid registration as a broker or dealer only if they conduct securities activities that fall within a set of defined exemptions. 

Consumer Regulation &#160; Our consumer businesses operate in a highly regulated environment. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act" or "Dodd-Frank") created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), which has a broad range of powers to administer and enforce a federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, including the authority to regulate credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services and providers of those products and services. The CFPB has the authority to issue regulations to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with consumer financial products or services and to ensure features 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

of any consumer financial products or services are fully, accurately and effectively disclosed to consumers. The CFPB also has authority to examine large banks, including HSBC Bank USA, and their affiliates for compliance with those regulations. Our consumer lending businesses are also subject to additional laws relating to consumer protection including, without limitation, fair lending, fair debt collection practices, mortgage loan origination and servicing obligations, bankruptcy, military service member protections, use of credit reports, privacy matters, and disclosure of credit terms and correction of billing errors. Local, state and national regulatory and enforcement agencies continue efforts to address perceived problems within the mortgage lending and credit card industries through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders' operations in consumer lending markets. There continues to be a significant amount of legislative and regulatory activity, nationally, locally and at the state level, designed to limit certain lending practices while mandating certain servicing procedures. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws, as well as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act affect the ability of banks, including HSBC Bank USA, to collect outstanding balances. 

Supervision of Bank Subsidiaries Our subsidiary national banks, HSBC Bank USA and HTCD, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). These subsidiary banks are subject to additional regulation and supervision by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), the FRB and the CFPB. HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to banking laws and regulations that place various restrictions and requirements on their activities, investments, operations and administration, including the establishment and maintenance of branch offices, capital and reserve requirements, deposits and borrowings, investment and lending activities, payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, overall compliance and risk management and numerous other matters. In 2020, the FRB reduced reserve requirements to zero percent. 

HSBC Bank USA is subject to the CRA, which imposes affirmative, ongoing obligations on depository institutions to meet the credit needs of their local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. In 2020, the OCC adopted significant amendments to its CRA regulations that would have required compliance on January 1, 2023. However, on December 14, 2021, the OCC issued a final rule to rescind the 2020 CRA rule and replace it with a rule based on the rules adopted jointly by the federal banking agencies in 1995. The final rule became effective on January 1, 2022. 

Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks. Dividends payable by HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a "recent earnings" test and an "undivided profits" test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year's net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank's undivided profits account. HSBC Bank USA is also required to maintain appropriate amounts of capital against its assets as discussed further in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Federal banking laws and regulations apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a "well capitalized" insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In 2020, the FDIC issued a final rule to revise and update its brokered deposit regulations, which took effect April 1, 2021. The full compliance date of the rule was January 1, 2022. The final rule has the potential to create additional uncertainty regarding the types of deposits that must be considered brokered. We are evaluating the final rule and its potential impact on our results and operations. 

The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of HSBC Bank USA may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the FRB in addition to those generally applicable to HSBC Bank USA under OCC rules. These branches are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate. 

Under longstanding FRB policy, which Dodd-Frank codified as a statutory requirement, HSBC USA is expected to act as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. 

Affiliate Transaction Restrictions HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to significant restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other "covered transactions" with HSBC USA or other affiliates. Covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, derivatives and certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from, or taking the credit risk by, a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Dodd-Frank expanded these affiliate transaction restrictions to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative, securities lending/borrowing or repurchase transaction with an affiliate. The FRB has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions. A bank's transactions with its non-bank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm's length terms. Certain Edge Act subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA are limited in the amount of funds they can provide to other affiliates including their parent. Amounts above their level of invested capital generally must be secured with U.S. government securities. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Unless an exemption applies, or a specific waiver is granted by the FRB, covered transactions by a bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10 percent of the bank's capital and surplus, and all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate are limited to 20 percent of a bank's capital and surplus. Loans and extensions of credit to affiliates by a bank generally are to be secured in specified amounts with specific types of collateral. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements As a financial services holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital rules issued by U.S. banking regulators including Basel III (the "Basel III rule"). A bank or BHC's failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory actions and possibly additional discretionary actions by its regulators. Generally, BHC regulatory capital compliance is performed at a consolidated level within the United States at HSBC North America, our parent, and also separately for HSBC Bank USA. However, we do present HSBC USA's capital ratios in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in our MD&#38;A, as well as, together with HSBC Bank USA's, in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our ultimate parent, HSBC, is also subject to regulatory capital requirements under United Kingdom ("U.K.") law. 

Basel III Overview The Basel III rule establishes minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for banks and BHCs. HSBC North America, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA each calculate their risk-based capital requirements for credit risk under the Standardized Approach in the Basel III rule. To be categorized as "well capitalized" under the Basel III rule, a banking institution must maintain capital equal to or in excess of the ratios reflected in the table included in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and must not be subject to a directive, order or written agreement to meet and maintain specific capital levels. The federal bank regulatory agencies may, however, set higher capital requirements for an individual bank or BHC when particular circumstances warrant. Under the Basel III rule, all banking organizations are subject to a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4 percent. Additionally, certain banking organizations are subject to a supplementary leverage ratio ("SLR") of 3 percent (calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to total leverage exposure, which includes balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet items). 

Tailoring Rules In 2019, the FRB and the other federal banking agencies jointly finalized rules to implement the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards for large BHCs and foreign banking organizations (the "Tailoring Rules"). The Tailoring Rules assign each BHC and IHC with $50 billion or more in total U.S. assets into one of five classifications (Categories I through IV, and 'other firms') based on their relative size and complexity and assessed on asset size, cross-jurisdictional activity, reliance on short-term wholesale funding, nonbank asset size, and off-balance sheet exposures. As of December 31, 2021, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA were subject to Category III standards. 

As of January 1, 2022, HSBC North America met the criteria to be re-classified as a Category IV firm and the enhanced prudential standards applicable to HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are expected to change commensurate with their risk profile. The following table provides a comparison of the enhanced prudential standards for Category III and Category IV firms to illustrate the expected impact on HSBC North America's change in category: 

##TABLE_START Category III (Current) Category IV (Expected) Stress Testing &#8226; Company-run stress testing every other year 

&#8226; Annual supervisory stress testing 

&#8226; Annual capital plan submission 

&#8226; No company-run stress testing requirement 

&#8226; Supervisory stress testing every other year 

&#8226; Annual capital plan submission 

Capital &#8226; Countercyclical buffer (when in effect) 

&#8226; SLR 

&#8226; No countercyclical buffer requirement 

&#8226; No SLR requirement 

Liquidity &#8226; Liquidity stress testing (monthly) 

&#8226; Reduced daily liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") and net stable funding ratio ("NSFR") regulatory requirements of 85 percent 

&#8226; Liquidity stress testing (quarterly) 

&#8226; Reduced daily LCR and NSFR regulatory requirements of 70 percent 

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits ("SCCL") &#8226; IHC must comply with SCCL 

&#8226; Combined US operations must meet home country SCCL consistent with Basel framework 

&#8226; No SCCL requirement at IHC-level 

&#8226; Combined US operations must meet home country SCCL consistent with Basel framework 

Resolution Plan Requirements &#8226; Resolution plan required on a three-year cycle, alternating between full and targeted plan 

&#8226; Resolution plan required on a three-year cycle, with a reduced plan 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The column labeled "expected" in the table above summarizes the enhanced prudential standards that generally apply to Category IV banking organizations. However, the FRB has broad authority under its regulations implementing the enhanced prudential standards to extend mandatory compliance with Category III level requirements or to impose additional prudential requirements on HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA. 

As a result of this classification change, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA expect to no longer be subject to the SLR or the countercyclical capital buffer. We continue to review the composition of our capital structure and capital buffers in light of these developments. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that provides the option to transition in the regulatory capital impacts of the new current expected credit loss accounting standard over a five-year period. In 2020, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA elected the five-year transition option and, as a result, our capital ratios are being reported in accordance with the transition rules in the final rule. Accordingly, during 2020 and 2021, we excluded from regulatory capital the change in retained earnings resulting from adoption of the new accounting standard on January 1, 2020 as well as 25 percent of the change in the allowance for credit losses recognized between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. Beginning January 1, 2022, the excluded impacts will be phased into regulatory capital over a three-year transition period and will be fully reflected at January 1, 2025. 

Also in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB issued final rules that permitted IHCs, such as HSBC North America, and depository institutions, such as HSBC Bank USA, to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the denominator of their SLR. The rules were designed to allow banking institutions to expand their balance sheets to accommodate increased customer deposits while continuing to provide credit to companies and households. These changes took effect in 2020 and expired on April 1, 2021. 

HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA are required to maintain minimum capital ratios as follows: 

##TABLE_START Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio Tier 1 Capital Ratio Total Capital Ratio Tier 1 Leverage Ratio Regulatory minimum ratio 4.5 % 6.0 % 8.0 % 4.0 % Plus: Capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.5 % &#8212; Regulatory minimum ratio plus capital conservation buffer 7.0 % 8.5 % 10.5 % 4.0 % ##TABLE_END

Until HSBC North America's re-classification as a Category IV firm takes effect, HSBC Bank USA is subject to the 3 percent SLR and the countercyclical buffer (when in effect) in addition to the capital conservation buffer. Currently, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA hold capital in excess of these regulatory minimums plus a fixed 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. If our risk-based capital ratios were to fall to levels within the capital conservation buffer, we would become subject to increasing restrictions on our capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing The FRB requires certain U.S. top-tier BHCs and IHCs, including HSBC North America, to comply with the FRB's capital plan rule and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") program, as well as the supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB, and company-run stress tests as required under the Dodd-Frank Act (collectively, "DFAST"). The company-run stress tests are forward looking exercises to assess the impact of hypothetical macroeconomic baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB (and internally developed scenarios for the company-run exercises) on the financial condition and capital adequacy of a CCAR firm over a nine quarter planning horizon. As a result of its re-classification as a Category IV firm, HSBC North America expects to no longer be subject to company-run stress testing and related disclosure requirements. Category IV firms are subject to supervisory stress testing on an every-other-year basis, although they may opt into such testing in an "off year" in order to recalibrate their stress capital buffer ("SCB") based on their most recent supervisory stress test. The FRB continues to supervise Category IV firms on an ongoing basis, including evaluation of the capital adequacy and capital planning processes during off-cycle years. HSBC Bank USA is not subject to the OCC's DFAST requirements, which require national banks with $250 billion or more in total assets to conduct company-run stress tests. 

As part of the CCAR process, the FRB undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of CCAR firms, including HSBC North America, based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the FRB that describes the company's planned capital actions during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the FRB under different hypothetical macroeconomic scenarios, including a supervisory baseline scenario and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB. 

In 2020, the FRB modified the static capital conservation buffer to incorporate an institution-specific SCB which is floored at 2.5 percent and took effect on October 1, 2020. The SCB equals (i) a CCAR firm's projected decline in common equity tier 1 under the annual CCAR supervisory severely adverse stress testing scenario plus (ii) one year of planned common stock 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

dividends. In August 2021, the FRB announced a new SCB for participating CCAR firms based on 2021 CCAR stress tests, which took effect October 1, 2021. 

HSBC North America continues to review the composition of its capital structures and capital buffers in light of the final rule. The SCB applies only to HSBC North America; HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA remain subject to a static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. 

HSBC North America submitted its 2021 CCAR capital plan and its 2021 annual company-run DFAST results in April 2021. In July 2021, HSBC North America publicly disclosed its 2021 annual DFAST results. In June 2021, the FRB publicly disclosed its own DFAST and CCAR results and informed HSBC North America that it did not object to HSBC North America's capital plan of the planned capital distributions included in its 2021 CCAR submission. The FRB previously announced that it intended to terminate restrictions on capital distributions put in place in connection with additional stress tests that the FRB conducted to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, these additional restrictions on distributions were lifted on June 30, 2021. Under these additional restrictions, CCAR firms were allowed to make certain capital distributions in the first two quarters of 2021, provided that the distributions generally did not exceed net income. 

Liquidity Risk Management The Basel Committee has adopted two required liquidity metrics: the liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR"), designed to be a short-term measure to ensure banks have sufficient HQLA to cover net stressed cash outflows over the next 30 days, and the NSFR, which is a longer term measure with a 12-month time horizon to ensure a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. 

Certain U.S. banking organizations are subject to the U.S. LCR rule and are required to report their LCRs to U.S. regulators on a daily basis. Under the Tailoring Rules, an 85 percent LCR requirement applies to Category III firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding under $75 billion and their depository institution subsidiaries. As a result, under the U.S. LCR rule, a LCR of 100 percent or higher reflects an unencumbered HQLA balance that is equal to or exceeds 85 percent of a Category III firm's liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. 

In 2020, U.S. regulators issued a final rule to implement the NSFR in the United States, applicable to certain large banking organizations, including HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA, which took effect on July 1, 2021. Consistent with the Tailoring Rules, an 85 percent NSFR requirement applies to Category III firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding under $75 billion and their depository institution subsidiaries. As a result, under the U.S. NSFR rule, a NSFR of 100 percent or more reflects an available stable funding balance from liabilities and capital over the next 12 months that is equal to or exceeds 85 percent of a Category III firm's required amount of funding for assets and off-balance sheet exposures. As a result of HSBC North America's re-classification as a Category IV firm, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA expect to be subject to a further reduced U.S. LCR and NSFR requirement of 70 percent so long as HSBC North America's weighted short-term wholesale funding equals or exceeds $50 billion. 

As a Category III firm, HSBC North America was subject to liquidity stress testing on a monthly basis and related liquidity buffer and liquidity risk management requirements. As a Category IV firm, HSBC North America remains subject to liquidity risk management and liquidity buffer requirements, but expects to be subject to liquidity stress testing on a quarterly, rather than monthly basis. 

TLAC The U.S. IHCs of non-U.S. global systemically important banks ("G-SIBs"), including HSBC North America, must maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity ("TLAC"), which includes minimum levels of Tier 1 capital and long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria, and a related TLAC buffer. In 2020, the FRB issued a final rule that aligns the calculation of the TLAC buffer for U.S. IHCs of non-U.S. G-SIBs with the calculation methodology used by U.S. G-SIBs beginning which took effect on April 1, 2021. The TLAC rules also include 'clean holding company requirements' that impose limitations on the types of financial transactions that HSBC North America may engage in. HSBC North America maintains long-term debt to support compliance with the TLAC rules and will continue to assess if additional long-term debt is needed to remain compliant in future periods. 

U.S. Resolution Planning Large international banks, such as HSBC (generally with regard to its U.S. operations), and large insured depository institutions, such as HSBC Bank USA, are required to file resolution plans identifying, among other things, material subsidiaries and core business lines and describing what strategy would be followed to resolve the institution in the event of significant financial distress, including identifying how insured bank subsidiaries would be adequately protected from risk created by other affiliates. The failure to cure deficiencies in a resolution plan would enable the FRB and the FDIC, acting jointly, to impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on growth, activities or operations and, if such failure persists, require the divestiture of assets or operations. 

Under the FRB and FDIC rule implementing the resolution planning requirements for depository institution holding companies (the "SIFI Plan") in the Dodd-Frank Act (the "SIFI Plan Rule"), HSBC is required to file a SIFI Plan every three years, alternating between a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan, which would generally be limited to core areas such as capital and liquidity, as well as identifying material changes in other areas of the plan since its last submission. HSBC 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

submitted its latest SIFI Plan, which was a targeted plan, in December 2021. As a result of HSBC North America's re-classification as a Category IV firm, HSBC would be required to submit a reduced SIFI Plan every three years. Reduced plans generally include only changes to the firm's plan since its previous filing. The SIFI Plan Rule did not revise the resolution plan requirements applicable to HSBC Bank USA, which are administered solely by the FDIC. 

In 2019, the FDIC requested comment on an advance notice of proposed rulemaking that would alter the FDIC's separate resolution plan requirements for insured depository institutions (the "IDI Plan") with total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion ("Covered IDIs"), including HSBC Bank USA. The proposal delayed the requirement for HSBC Bank USA (as well as other Covered IDIs) to file its next IDI Plan until a future date to be specified by the FDIC. Consequently, HSBC Bank USA has not been required to file an IDI Plan since 2018. On January 19, 2021, the FDIC announced it will resume requiring IDI Plan submissions for banks with $100 billion or more in assets and will provide at least 12 months advance notice to firms required to submit IDI Plans. The FRB has separately established a framework for recovery plans, although HSBC is not currently required to submit a recovery plan to U.S. regulators unless specifically requested to do so. 

Non-U.S. Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements HSBC North America and HSBC USA also continue to support HSBC's implementation of the Basel III framework, as adopted by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority. We supply data regarding credit risk, operational risk and market risk to support HSBC's regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset calculations and information relevant to HSBC's compliance with applicable liquidity requirements. 

General Our capital resources are summarized under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in MD&#38;A. Capital amounts and ratios for HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA are summarized in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements" of the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, bank regulators propose amendments to or issue interpretations of risk-based or leverage capital guidelines. Such proposals or interpretations could, upon implementation, affect reported capital ratios and net risk-weighted assets. 

Deposit Insurance Deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC's regulations. The standard deposit insurance amount is $250,000 per depositor for each account category. HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to risk based assessments from the FDIC. Such assessments determine the deposit insurance costs paid by HSBC Bank USA and HTCD to the FDIC. While the assessments are generally payable quarterly, the FDIC also has the authority to impose special assessments to prevent the Deposit Insurance Fund from declining to an unacceptable level. 

Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering We are subject to a framework of federal laws designed to combat money laundering and financing of terrorism, mainly the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as related regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and federal banking regulators (collectively, "AML laws"). AML laws require financial institutions (including insured U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-based branches and agencies of foreign banks, U.S. broker-dealers and various other entities) to implement an AML compliance program that is reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Programs must include, among other things, policies and procedures to verify their customers&#8217; identities, verify the identities of beneficial owners of legal entity customers, conduct customer due diligence and enhanced due diligence on certain customers and monitor for and report on suspicious activity. We are examined for compliance with AML laws by our federal banking regulators. 

Cybersecurity Regulatory Developments In 2016, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a joint advance notice of proposed rulemaking to solicit feedback on their development of comprehensive cyber risk management standards for large banking organizations and certain of their service providers. 

In November 2021, these agencies issued a final rule mandating that a banking organization notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours of identifying a "computer-security incident" that has or is reasonably likely to disrupt or degrade its (i) ability to carry out banking operations, activities, or processes, or deliver banking products and services to a material portion of its customer base; (ii) business lines, including associated operations, services, functions, and support, that upon failure would result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value; or (iii) operations, including associated services, functions, and support, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. The rule takes effect April 1, 2022, with banking organizations required to comply with the notice requirements beginning May 1, 2022. We continue to evaluate the potential effects of this rule on our operations. 

Cybersecurity remains an area of significant regulatory focus, and state regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity to continue, and are continually monitoring developments in the states. 

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits The FRB limits credit exposures to single counterparties for large BHCs and IHCs, including HSBC North America. As a Category III firm, HSBC North America, together with its subsidiaries, was prohibited 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

from having net credit exposure to a single unaffiliated counterparty in excess of 25 percent of HSBC North America's Tier 1 capital. As a result of its re-classification as a Category IV firm, HSBC North America expects to no longer be directly subject to these single counterparty credit limits. Independent of HSBC North America's reclassification to a Category IV firm, HSBC North America, together with its subsidiaries, could become subject to a separate limit on its exposures to certain unaffiliated systemically important counterparties if its parent, HSBC, cannot certify its compliance with a large exposure regime in the U.K. that is consistent with the Basel large exposure framework. 

Derivatives Regulation Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter ("OTC") derivatives markets, including credit default, equity, foreign exchange and interest rate swaps. Implementation of Title VII is the responsibility of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") (for swaps based on non-securities underliers or broad-based security indices), the SEC (for swaps based on individual securities and narrow-based security indices, known as "security- based swaps") and, to a lesser extent, U.S. banking regulators (for certain rules applicable to banks). The CFTC has implemented the most significant provisions of Title VII applicable to swaps. In particular, certain swap dealers, including HSBC Bank USA, have provisionally registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and become members of the National Futures Association, subjecting them to an extensive array of corporate governance requirements, business conduct standards, reporting requirements, mandatory clearing and trading of certain swaps and other regulatory standards affecting their derivatives businesses. These requirements have increased the costs associated with HSBC Bank USA's derivatives businesses. 

Also, HSBC Bank USA engages in equity and credit derivatives businesses that are subject to the SEC's jurisdiction to regulate security-based swaps under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act. The SEC has finalized the key rules governing the application of Title VII requirements to security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. The registration requirements and other rules applicable to security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants generally came into effect in November 2021 and as of that date HSBC Bank USA is conditionally registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. 

In addition, as a provisionally registered swap dealer and a conditionally registered security-based swap dealer that is a national bank, HSBC Bank USA is subject to the rules jointly finalized by the U.S. banking regulators which established margin requirements (the "Margin Rules") for non-cleared swaps and security-based swaps (together, "swaps") for swap dealers, security-based swap dealers, major swap participants and major security-based swap participants regulated by the agencies ("Swap Entities"). Subject to certain exceptions, the Margin Rules require HSBC Bank USA to collect and post initial and variation margin for swaps entered into with other Swap Entities and certain financial end users that exceed a minimum threshold of transactional activity, and for financial end users that do not meet the minimum transactional activity threshold, to collect and post variation margin (but not initial margin). 

The Margin Rules also limit the types of assets that are eligible to satisfy initial and variation margin requirements, require initial margin to be segregated at a third-party custodian, impose requirements on internal models used to calculate initial margin requirements and contain specific provisions for cross-border and inter-affiliate transactions. The Margin Rules follow a phased implementation schedule, with additional counterparties becoming subject to initial margin requirements in September 2022 depending on the transactional volume of the parties and their affiliates. The Margin Rules, as well as parallel margin rules from the CFTC, the SEC, and certain non-U.S. regulators, have increased the costs and liquidity burden associated with trading swaps. 

The " Volcker Rule " The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities' investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain conditions. A banking entity with significant U.S. trading operations, such as HSBC North America, is required to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 

Competition The GLB Act eliminated many of the regulatory restrictions on providing financial services in the United States. The GLB Act allows for financial institutions and other providers of financial products to enter into combinations that permit a single organization to offer a complete line of financial products and services. In addition, the Volcker Rule places restrictions on bank-affiliated financial companies' trading activities and private equity and hedge fund investments, which may provide a competitive advantage to financial companies that do not have U.S. banking operations and may impact liquidity in the products and activities in which we engage. We face intense competition in all of the markets we serve, competing with banks and other financial institutions such as insurance companies, commercial finance providers, brokerage firms, investment companies and fintech companies. The financial services industry has experienced consolidation in recent years as financial institutions involved in a broad range of products and services have merged, been acquired or dispersed. This trend is expected to continue and has resulted in, among other things, greater concentrations of deposits and other resources. Competition is expected to continue to be intense given the multiple banks and other financial services companies which offer products and 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

services in our markets, noting that we compete with different banks and financial services companies in different markets, given our strategy. 

Corporate Governance and Controls &#160; 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We maintain a website at www.us.hsbc.com on which we make available, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with or furnishing to the SEC, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports. We have included our website address only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Our website also contains our Corporate Governance Standards and Charters of standing Board of Directors Committees, including the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Chairman's Committee. 

Integrity is the foundation of all our business endeavors and is the result of continued dedication and commitment to high ethical standards in our relationships with each other, with other organizations and with those individuals who are our customers. To that end, we have adopted a Statement of Business Principles and Code of Ethics (our "Statement of Business Principles") that expresses the principles upon which we operate our business. The Statement of Business Principles is applicable to all employees, including our CEO, Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") and Chief Accounting Officer (collectively, the "Senior Financial Officers"). In addition to the Statement of Business Principles, the Senior Financial Officers are subject to the additional policies set forth in the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which is intended to supplement the Statement of Business Principles. 

Our Statement of Business Principles and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers can be found on our corporate website, www.about.us.hsbc.com, under "Investor Relations." Printed copies of this information can be requested at no charge. Requests should be made to HSBC USA Inc., 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, Attention: Corporate Secretary. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Statement of Business Principles by posting such information on our website, at the address and location specified above. 

Certifications In addition to certifications from our CEO and CFO pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (attached to this report on Form 10-K as Exhibits 31 and 32), we also file a written affirmation of an authorized officer with the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") certifying that such officer is not aware of any violation by HSBC USA of the applicable NYSE corporate governance listing standards in effect as of February 22, 2022. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

