Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to Capital One Financial Corporation, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
capital_one_financial_corporation_2022_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Trial Is Test Of U.S. Law On Hacking ...................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TrialIsTestOfU.S.LawOnHacking                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Trial Is Test Of U.S. Law On Hacking                                    
          By Kate Conger                                                          
          1,308 words                                                             
          9 June 2022                                                             
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          A woman is accused of downloading data of more than 100 million Capital One customers. Her lawyers argue
          a conviction would criminalize legitimate research practices.           
          Nearly three years after the disclosure of one of the largest data breaches in the United States, the former
          Amazon employee accused of stealing customers' personal information from Capital One is standing trial in a
          case that will test the power of American anti-hacking law.             
          Paige Thompson worked as a software engineer in Seattle and ran an online community for other
          programmers. In 2019, she downloaded personal information belonging to more than 100 million Capital One
          customers, the Justice Department said.                                 
          The data came from applications for credit cards, and included 140,000 Social Security numbers and 80,000
          bank account numbers. She faces 10 counts of computer fraud, wire fraud and identity theft in a federal trial
          that began on Tuesday in Seattle.                                       
          The methods Ms. Thompson used to discover the information, and what she planned to do with it, will be
          closely scrutinized in the case. Ms. Thompson, 36, is accused of violating an anti-hacking law known as the
          Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which forbids access to a computer without authorization. Ms. Thompson
          has pleaded not guilty, and her lawyers say her actions -- scanning for online vulnerabilities and exploring
          what they exposed -- were those of a ''novice white-hat hacker.''       
          Ms. Thompson's trial will raise questions about how far security researchers can go in their pursuit of
          cybersecurity flaws before their actions break the law. Prosecutors said Ms. Thompson had planned to use
          the information she gathered for identity theft, and had taken advantage of her access to corporate servers in
          a scheme to mine cryptocurrency. But her lawyers have argued that Ms. Thompson's discovery of flaws in
          Capital One's data storage system reflected the same practices used by legitimate security researchers and
          should not be considered criminal activity.                             
          The Justice Department has argued that Ms. Thompson had no interest in helping Capital One plug the holes
          in its security and that she cannot be considered a ''white hat'' hacker. Instead, she chatted with friends online
          about how she might be able to profit from the breach, according to legal filings.
          Among its customers was Capital One.                                                            
          In early 2019, several years after she stopped working for Amazon Web Services, Ms. Thompson searched
          for its customers who had not properly set up firewalls to protect their data. ''Thompson scanned tens of
          millions of AWS customers looking for vulnerabilities,'' Mr. Brown wrote in a legal filing. By March, she had
          discovered a vulnerability that allowed her to download data from Capital One, the prosecutor added.
          The woman suggested that Ms. Thompson turn herself in to the authorities, prosecutors said. A month later,
          the woman contacted Capital One and told the bank about the breach. Capital One informed law enforcement
          officials, and Ms. Thompson was arrested in late July 2019. If convicted, she could face more than 30 years
          in prison.                                                              
          In 2020, Capital One agreed to pay $80 million to settle claims from federal bank regulators that it lacked the
          security protocols needed to protect customers' data. The settlement also required the bank to work quickly to
          improve its security. In December, Capital One agreed to pay $190 million to people whose data had been
          exposed in the breach, settling a class-action lawsuit.                 
          Paige Thompson is accused of downloading the personal data of more than 100 million Capital One
          customers. Her federal trial began on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK
          TIMES); Lawyers for Ms. Thompson argue that she was a ''white-hat hacker'' acting in good faith to research
          flaws in security. (B4)                                                 
          Document NYTF000020220609ei690003o                                      
```