Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Citigroup Inc., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
citigroup_inc_2022_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Details How Trader Set Off Turmoil .......................................................................................................... 2
          Citigroup Spurs 'Flash Crash' in European Markets................................................................................................. 3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupDetailsHowTraderSetOffTurmoil                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Details How Trader Set Off Turmoil                            
          By David Benoit                                                         
          299 words                                                               
          6 June 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B5                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A Citigroup Inc. trader who sent European stock indexes into free fall last month was working from home and
          went through several alerts before his order went live, people familiar with the matter said.
          The bank was able to quickly cancel some trades, but is facing about $50 million in losses, one of the people
          said.                                                                   
          On May 2, the trader in London, working at home on a bank holiday, entered a wrong figure while trying to
          place an order for a client, the people said.                           
          Chaos ensued. Trading was halted momentarily in several markets after major stock indexes plunged for a
          few minutes in Europe.                                                  
                                                                                  
          "One of our traders made an error when inputting a transaction," Citigroup said last month. "Within minutes,
          we identified the error and corrected it."                              
          Bloomberg reported earlier on the expected size of the bank's loss.     
          The loss from reimbursing clients wouldn't be material to the bank. Citi's equity-trading operation brought in
          $1.5 billion in revenue in the first quarter.                           
                                                                                  
          But the mistake comes at a delicate time. Citigroup is under a regulatory order to improve the technology
          and risk-management systems that protect the bank and customers, a multibillion-dollar project that is
          demanding the time and effort of senior managers.                       
          Several top executives in Citigroup's markets division have left this year, including its co-head Carey Lathrop
          and a onetime co-head of equities, Dan Keegan.                          
          The fact the trader was at home could also inflame debate across Wall Street about the future of work.
          Citigroup has taken a more progressive tack about remote work than other banks.
                                                                                  
          Citigroup doesn't think working from home led to the trading mistake, a person familiar with the matter said.
          Document J000000020220606ei6600009                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupSpurs'FlashCrash'inEuropeanMarkets                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Spurs 'Flash Crash' in European Markets                       
          By Anna Hirtenstein and David Benoit                                    
          429 words                                                               
          3 May 2022                                                              
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Several European stock markets suffered a "flash crash" on Monday morning following sell orders by
          Citigroup Inc., according to people familiar with the matter.           
          Trading was halted momentarily in several markets after major stock indexes plunged for a few minutes just
          before 10 a.m. Central European time. Stocks in the Nordic region were hit the hardest, though other
          European stocks tumbled briefly on a day when share prices around the globe declined.
          Nasdaq and Euronext NV, which operate stock exchanges across the region, said they are investigating the
          cause. Nasdaq said it hasn't seen any reason to cancel trades.          
          Citigroup is working with the exchanges to determine what happened and why, one person said.
                                                                                  
          "This morning one of our traders made an error when inputting a transaction," a Citigroup spokeswoman said
          in a statement late Monday. "Within minutes, we identified the error and corrected it."
          The nature and extent of the sales by Citigroup weren't immediately clear.
          Investors thought the incident may have been caused by human error, known in industry parlance as a "fat
          finger."                                                                
                                                                                  
          Sweden's benchmark index, the OMX Stockholm All-Share, fell nearly 8% before largely rebounding.
          Denmark's equivalent index fell over 6% around the same time and also mostly recovered. Both closed down
          around 2%.                                                              
          Markets run by Amsterdam-based Euronext also tumbled before largely recovering. The Dutch AEX index fell
          3% and Belgium's BEL20 declined over 5%. France's CAC40 fell 3%. These indexes ended the day down
          more than 1%.                                                           
          Euronext temporarily halted trading to try to lower the impact on markets, according to a spokesman. Nasdaq
          said it used circuit breakers in the immediate aftermath of the crash on major stocks on Nordic exchanges,
          including Kone Oyj and Stora Enso Oyj.                                  
          Fat-finger trades can be costly. In 2009, an oil trader on a bender placed around $520 million of trades for
          crude oil, saddling his company with $10 million in losses. In 2012, financial-services firm Knight Capital lost
          $440 million from a computer-trading glitch that entered millions of trades in less than an hour.
          Citigroup has a history of untimely errors. In 2020, it was ordered by regulators to clean up systems meant to
          safeguard the bank and its clients and fined $400 million. It is spending billions of dollars to transform its
          technology and inner workings, a cost that has investors anxious. Chief Executive Jane Fraser has said it is
          the bank's top priority to get it right.                                
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220503ei530001n                                      
```