Here is the cleaned text file with only the content related to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the table of contents preserved:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2022_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan Gives Investors Needed Reassurance ................................................................................................... 2
          JPMorgan Says Consumers Are Doing Fine............................................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganGivesInvestorsNeededReassurance                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          JPMorgan Gives Investors Needed Reassurance                             
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          568 words                                                               
          24 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          JPMorgan Chase has told the market what it needed to hear.              
          After holding steady with its forecast for net interest income when it released first-quarter earnings last month,
          even as the Federal Reserve became increasingly hawkish, the bank in an Investor Day presentation Monday
          raised that target to $56 billion-plus for 2022, excluding its volatile markets unit. It also sees a path, based on
          what it anticipates for the fourth quarter, to a future annual rate of around $66 billion.
          That alone will likely reassure investors that lenders aren't going to miss out on the upside of rising rates, with
          worries about the pace of loan growth and deposit competition not erasing that advantage.
          Bank stocks generally were surging on Monday, with JPMorgan shares on track for their best day since 2020
          with a 7% gain. The KBW Nasdaq Bank index was up nearly 5%, almost triple the rebound in the broader
          S&P 500.                                                                
                                                                                  
          Still, investors shouldn't get too far ahead of themselves. Even with this interest income expectation,
          JPMorgan didn't alter its medium-term target for 17% return on tangible common equity, a key measure of
          bank profitability.                                                     
          Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said there was a very good chance the bank will achieve that 17% level this
          year, and it could hit it next year in a benign environment. The bank's price-to-tangible book multiple is just
          over 1.8 times, according to FactSet. It was trading at more than two times entering the pandemic, and
          reached 2.5 times last year.                                            
          Whether that means the stock is discounted depends on a broader perspective on returns, taking into
          account some macro factors partly out of the bank's control. For one, Mr. Dimon noted that the bank is
          "over-earning" on credit right now, losing around $3 billion annually on charge-offs, or about half of what he
          said a normalized level might be. The bank expects this to eventually normalize, though it isn't anticipating a
          rapid reversion. It says it may take until closer to the end of next year to get to prepandemic net charge-off
          rates. Still, under current accounting rules, the bank may have to adjust its loan-loss reserves earlier, based
          in part on worst-case macroeconomic scenarios.                          
          Then there are rising regulatory capital requirements, which influence the denominator part of return on
          equity. The bank said it expects to manage to a higher minimum capital ratio target as of the start of 2024.
          Though it can get there via earnings growth -- and so it wouldn't have to raise capital and dilute shareholders
          -- this may limit cash available for share buybacks that would normally boost book value per share. That is a
          factor in book-value multiples.                                         
          The bank also spent significant time on Monday explaining the payoff for its spending on investments in areas
          such as cloud computing and travel services. But in this frightening market, investors might not be in any
          mood to pay for potential. Such a cautious, spend-conscious mind-set might have factored into the largely
          symbolic, nonbinding rejection of the bank's compensation plan for Mr. Dimon and other top executives in a
          shareholder vote last week.                                             
          So after Monday, investors might be reassured. But don't count on them getting excited yet.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganSaysConsumersAreDoingFine                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan Says Consumers Are Doing Fine                                  
          By David Benoit                                                         
          446 words                                                               
          24 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Recession fears have markets in a panic, but the leaders of America's biggest bank said U.S. consumers
          appear to be in good financial health.                                  
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. expects credit losses to remain abnormally low through much of 2023, because
          customers haven't yet drained cash balances that grew fatter during the pandemic, executives said at the
          bank's investor day on Monday.                                          
          "Big picture, the near-term credit outlook, especially for the U.S. consumer, remains strong," said Chief
          Financial Officer Jeremy Barnum.                                        
          Bank stocks soared Monday, outpacing the broader market. JPMorgan shares were up about 7% midday,
          while the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index rose 4%. Recession fears have driven a selloff in bank stocks this year.
          Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said a recession isn't out of the cards. The economy remains strong due to the
          actions Congress and the Federal Reserve took early on in the pandemic to prop it up, he said, and that is
          making it harder to see what's ahead.                                   
                                                                                  
          "It's a different strong economy," Mr. Dimon said. "If we go into a recession, it may be different from other
          recessions."                                                            
          So far, though, JPMorgan executives said they have seen no signs of looming trouble in early
          loan-delinquency numbers. And while the economic forecast has worsened, they aren't expecting to add
          significantly to their loan-loss reserves in the current quarter after surprising markets by setting aside more
          money to cover potential losses earlier this year.                      
          Executives cautioned that lower-income consumers, who make up a smaller slice of its customer base, are
          starting to feel the effects of red-hot inflation.                      
          Indeed, more consumers with low credit scores are falling behind on payments for car loans, personal loans
          and credit cards. Delinquencies on subprime car loans and leases hit an all-time high in February, according
          to credit-reporting firm Equifax Inc.                                   
          Still, JPMorgan is confident enough in consumers' financial health to roll out new credit products. Executives
          detailed new "buy now, pay later" installment plans for its credit- and debit-card customers. The bank is also
          ramping up wealth-management offerings.                                 
                                                                                  
          While JPMorgan's consumer business remains in good shape, the outlook is cloudier for its Wall Street
          operations.                                                             
          Daniel Pinto, JPMorgan's president and the head of its corporate and investment bank, said fees from
          investment banking are trending down 45% for the second quarter from a record stretch a year earlier due to
          a decline in corporate deal making and stock offerings. Rocky markets, though, have been good for the bank:
          Trading revenues are likely to rise 15% to 20% in the quarter.          
          Document J000000020220524ei5o0000x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvestmentFlowsIntoPower-UseDataFirm                                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Investment Flows Into Power-Use Data Firm                               
          By Amrith Ramkumar                                                      
          266 words                                                               
          11 May 2022                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Arcadia has privately raised $200 million from investors including J.P. Morgan Asset Management to scale its
          climate-data and software platform, company officials said.             
          Companies such as Ford Motor Co. use Arcadia to view aggregated data on energy usage and pricing across
          the U.S., find customers for their clean-energy products and manage their electricity usage. Arcadia also
          connects consumers in states such as New York to large solar projects through their utility companies.
          Washington, D.C.-based Arcadia's latest financing round values it at roughly $1.5 billion. The company has
          raised about $380 million since its inception in 2014 and hopes to use the money to increase the amount of
          data on its platform, expand globally and help companies manage their carbon emissions.
          By combining many regional utility data points in one place, Arcadia lets customers know when it is best to
          store clean energy, use solar power or charge an electric vehicle, Chief Executive Kiran Bhatraju said in an
          interview.                                                              
          "I think our platform will become foundational for the energy transition," he said.
          Some investors are favoring software companies that sit in the middle of the transition away from fossil fuels,
          wagering that the startups have a quicker path to profitability because they don't need to spend heavily to
          make physical products such as electric cars or solar panels.           
                                                                                  
          Arcadia declined to provide figures on its financial performance. Mr. Bhatraju said he expects to take the
          company public, but doesn't have a specific time frame in mind.         
          Document J000000020220511ei5b0001f                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ForMany,theOptimalWorkweekIsOneorTwoDaysintheOffice---Ascompaniesstruggletohireandretainemployees,somerelaxback-to...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PERSONAL JOURNAL                                                        
          For Many, the Optimal Workweek Is One or Two Days in the Office --- As companies struggle to hire
          and retain employees, some relax back-to-work plans                     
          By Katherine Bindley                                                    
          880 words                                                               
          25 April 2022                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          For months, managers have called three days in the office a week a hybrid-work ideal that both gives
          employees flexibility and packs in enough face time to cement company culture.
          For some, the three-day plan is morphing into two.                      
          Nicholas Bloom, a Stanford University economist who studies remote work, says about a dozen firms are
          paring down in-office schedules from three days a week to two. Other firms are abandoning a full return to the
          office altogether.                                                      
          "The combination of having been almost two years out of the office and the labor market becoming incredibly
          tight, now firms realize that three-two, rather than being seen as generous and appealing, is average at best,"
          he says.                                                                
          Mr. Bloom is a paid consultant for some of the companies and declined to name which ones were inverting
          their schedules so workers could do more from home.                     
          Many companies, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Amazon.com Inc., had more ambitious plans to
          return to work a year ago and have had to reconsider them in light of the continuing pandemic, the hot labor
          market and employee preferences for flexible schedules and locations.   
                                                                                  
          In a monthly survey of worker preferences that Mr. Bloom conducts with Steven J. Davis of the University of
          Chicago and Jose Maria Barrero of Instituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico, the gap between what
          workers prefer and what their companies are planning has begun to shrink, but a divide remains.
          Prof. Davis says that several executives he's spoken with who tried to get employees to come back to the
          office four or five days a week failed.                                 
          "There was a lot of complaining and a lot of quitting," he says.        
                                                                                  
          More new survey data last week shows that full-time workers have more work-related stress and anxiety than
          their hybrid and remote counterparts.                                   
          Overall satisfaction with their workplace declined by 1.6 times as much for those working five days in the
          office compared with the other groups, according to the report from Future Forum, a consortium funded by
          Slack Technologies Inc., Boston Consulting Group and MillerKnoll.       
          The survey of more than 10,800 knowledge workers across about 20 industries including financial services,
          consumer goods and technology, comes as companies have been calling workers back to their desks at a
          higher rate than at any other time during the pandemic.                 
          The discontent reflected in the data among those working in the office every day highlights risks that
          companies take by giving priority to face time and in-office culture over worker preferences for flexibility
          coming out of the pandemic, says Brian Elliott, executive leader of Future Forum.
                                                                                  
          "We were kind of shocked that it was as bad as it was," he says. "It's going to impact people's tendency to
          resign."                                                                
          Of the workers surveyed, about 5,000 are based in the U.S. The share of those workers who are now back in
          the office five days a week rose from 29% in the last quarter of 2021 to 35% in the first quarter of this year.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Workers with little to no ability to set their own hours were more than 2 1/2 times as likely to look for a new job
          in the coming year as those who have some say in when they work, according to the survey.
          At the marketing-and-sales software firm HubSpot Inc., maximizing employee choice when it comes to work
          styles has helped with recruiting new hires and retaining people, says Katie Burke, the company's chief
          people officer.                                                         
          "We're not messing with anything that relates to people's work preferences," she says. "I cannot overstate the
          degree to which it's been a competitive advantage."                     
                                                                                  
          HubSpotallows employees to pick whether they want to be designated as working at home, the office or a flex
          arrangement. The office designation is for people who come in three days a week, not five.Flexemployees
          come in one or two daysor fewer.The in-office days are considered guidelines as opposed to requirements.
          This year, 51% of employees are in the work-from-home category, 35% are considered flex, and 14% are
          in-office.                                                              
          HubSpot's head count has increased to more than 5,900 workers, up from about 3,400 in early 2020, Ms.
          Burke says.                                                             
          Many companies remain heavily committed to offices, but some of the biggest proponents of in-person work
          havereconsideredtheir approaches to office returns.                     
          Amazon originally suggested its workers be in the office at least three days a week,with four weeks of remote
          work built in.The company later revised its policy from three office days each week to allowing individual
          teams to decide how much time is needed at the office.                  
          A year ago, JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said that people don't like commuting. "So what?" he
          said. "We want people back at work."                                    
                                                                                  
          He softened his stance in an early April letter to shareholders in which he said that in the future, half the firm's
          employees will spend some or all their time working remotely.           
          Document J000000020220425ei4p0000b                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---Banking&Finance:OneEquitySeesStrongDemandForItsBuyout-InvestingVehicle
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Banking & Finance: One Equity Sees Strong Demand For Its Buyout-Investing Vehicle
          By Preeti Singh and Laura Kreutzer                                      
          410 words                                                               
          2 April 202