OVERVIEW Citigroup’s history dates back to the founding of the City Bank of New York in 1812. Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding company whose businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad, yet focused, range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, trade and securities services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2021, Citi had approximately 223,400 full-time employees, compared to approximately 210,000 full-time employees at December 31, 2020. For additional information, see “Human Capital Resources and Management” below. Throughout this report, “Citigroup,” “Citi” and “the Company” refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. For a list of terms and acronyms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other Citigroup presentations, see “Glossary of Terms and Acronyms” at the end of this report. Additional Information Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi’s website at www.citigroup.com. Citigroup’s recent annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and proxy statements, as well as other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available free of charge through Citi’s website by clicking on the “Investors” tab and selecting “SEC Filings,” then “Citigroup Inc.” The SEC’s website also contains current reports on Form 8-K and other information regarding Citi at www.sec.gov. For a discussion of 2020 versus 2019 results of operations of ICG, GCB in North America, Latin America and Asia, and Corporate/Other, see each respective business’s results of operations in Citi’s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods’ financial statements and disclosures to conform to the current period’s presentation.As of December 31, 2021, Citigroup was managed pursuant to two operating segments—Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer Banking—with the remaining operations in Corporate/Other. (For information on Citi’s planned revision to its reporting structure effective for the first quarter of 2022, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure” below.) For a further description of the operating segments and the products and services they provide, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial StatementsStrategic Refresh—Market Exits and Planned Revision to Reporting Structure As part of its strategic refresh, Citi is making management reporting changes to align with its vision and strategy, including to assist Citi in decisions about resources and capital allocation and to assess business performance. In the first quarter of 2022, Citi will revise its financial reporting structure to align with these management reporting changes to enable investors and others to better understand the performance of Citi’s businesses (see the table below for additional information on the revised financial reporting structure): • First, Citi is creating a Personal Banking and Wealth Management segment. It will consist of two distinct reporting units: U.S. Personal Banking businesses and a Global Wealth Management business, which will include the private bank. • Second, with respect to Institutional Clients Group (ICG), Citi will begin reporting under three reporting units: Services, Banking and Markets. Services will include treasury and trade solutions and securities services, reflecting the importance of these businesses to Citi’s future. • Finally, Citi is creating Legacy Franchises, a segment that will consist of all the businesses Citi intends to exit (see below), including its remaining Legacy Holdings assets. In conjunction with the strategic refresh, in 2021 Citi announced that it will focus its consumer banking franchises in Asia and EMEA on four wealth centers: Singapore, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and London. As a result, Citi is pursuing exits of its consumer franchises in the remaining 13 markets across these two regions. In 2021 and early 2022, Citi announced sale agreements for or exit of a majority of the 13 markets (for additional information, see “Executive Summary” and “Asia GCB” below). ICG will continue to serve clients, including its commercial banking clients, in all of these markets. In addition, in January 2022, Citi announced that it intends to exit the consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations of Citibanamex. The businesses in the intended exit include the Mexico consumer and small business banking operations, reported as part of Citi’s GCB segment, as well as the Mexico middle-market banking business, reported in Citi’s ICG segment. These operations represent the entirety of the Latin America GCB unit. Citi will continue to operate a locally licensed banking business in Mexico through its global ICG (for additional information, see “Executive Summary” and “Latin America GCB” below). For additional information regarding the exit markets, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding risks related to the exit markets, see “Risk Factors” below.