 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to Columbia Banking System, Inc. as the "Company," "Columbia," "we," "us," "our," or similar references. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may include statements that expressly or implicitly predict future results, performance, or events. Statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "estimates," "intends," "forecast", and words or phrases of similar meaning. 

We make forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, statements made about the combined company&#8217;s prospects and results following the merger with Umpqua Holdings Corporation and the merger of Columbia State Bank into Umpqua Bank (collectively, the &#8220;Mergers&#8221;), completed in the first quarter 2023; derivatives and hedging; the results and performance of models and economic forecasts used in our calculation of the ACL; projected sources of funds and the Company's liquidity position and deposit level and types; our securities portfolio; loan sales; adequacy of our ACL, including the RUC; provision for credit losses; non-performing loans and future losses; our commercial real estate portfolio, its collectability and subsequent charge-offs; resolution of non-accrual loans; mortgage volumes and the impact of rate changes; the economic environment; inflation and interest rates generally; litigation; dividends; junior subordinated debentures; fair values of certain assets and liabilities, including MSR values and sensitivity analyses; tax rates; deposit pricing; and the effect of accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting methodology. 

Forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. In addition to the factors set forth in the sections titled &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; &#8220;Business&#8221; and &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements: 

&#8226; changes in general economic, political, or industry conditions, and in conditions impacting the banking industry specifically; 

&#8226; deterioration in economic conditions that could result in increased loan and lease losses, especially those risks associated with concentrations in real estate related loans; 

&#8226; uncertainty in U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve or the effects of any declines in housing and commercial real estate prices, high or increasing unemployment rates, continued inflation, or any recession or slowdown in economic growth particularly in the western United States; 

&#8226; volatility and disruptions in global capital and credit markets; 

&#8226; the impact of bank failures or adverse developments at other banks on general investor sentiment regarding the stability and liquidity of banks; 

&#8226; changes in interest rates that could significantly reduce net interest income and negatively affect asset yields and valuations and funding sources, including impacts on prepayment speeds; 

&#8226; the impact of transition of LIBOR to other indexes including SOFR; 

&#8226; competitive pressures among financial institutions and nontraditional providers of financial services, including on product pricing and services; 

&#8226; continued consolidation in the financial services industry resulting in the creation of larger financial institutions that have greater resources; 

&#8226; our ability to successfully, including on time and on budget, implement and sustain information technology product and system enhancements and operational initiatives; 

&#8226; our ability to attract new deposits and loans and leases; 

&#8226; our ability to retain deposits; 

&#8226; our ability to achieve the efficiencies and enhanced financial and operating performance we expect to realize from investments in personnel, acquisitions, and infrastructure; 

&#8226; the possibility that our recorded goodwill could become impaired, which may have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital; 

&#8226; demand for financial services in our market areas; 

&#8226; stability, cost, and continued availability of borrowings and other funding sources, such as brokered and public deposits; 

&#8226; changes in legal or regulatory requirements or the results of regulatory examinations that could increase expenses or restrict growth; 

&#8226; changes in the scope and cost of FDIC insurance and other coverage; 

&#8226; our ability to manage climate change concerns, related regulations, and potential impacts on the creditworthiness of our customers; 

&#8226; our ability to recruit and retain key management and staff; 

&#8226; our ability to raise capital or incur debt on reasonable terms; 

&#8226; regulatory limits on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company that could impact the timing and amount of dividends to shareholders; 

&#8226; financial services reform and the impact of legislation and implementing regulations on our business operations, including our compliance costs, interest expense, and revenue; 

&#8226; a breach or failure of our operational or security systems, or those of our third-party vendors, including as a result of cyber-attacks; 

&#8226; success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or services; 

&#8226; the outcome of legal proceedings; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively manage credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, operational risk, legal risk, liquidity risk and regulatory and compliance risk; 

&#8226; the possibility that the anticipated benefits of the Mergers are not realized when expected or at all, including as a result of the impact of, or problems arising from, the integration of the two companies or as a result of the strength of the economy and competitive factors in the areas where we do business; 

&#8226; potential adverse reactions or changes to business or employee relationships, including those resulting from the integration of the two companies and banks; 

&#8226; economic forecast variables that are either materially worse or better than end of quarter projections and deterioration in the economy that exceeds current consensus estimates; 

&#8226; the effect of geopolitical instability, including wars, conflicts, and terrorist attacks; 

&#8226; natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, fires, pandemics, and other similarly unexpected events outside of our control; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively manage problem credits; 

&#8226; our ability to successfully negotiate with landlords or reconfigure facilities; and 

&#8226; the effects of any damage to our reputation resulting from developments related to any of the items identified above. 

There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required under federal securities laws. Readers should consider any forward-looking statements in light of this explanation, and we caution readers about relying on forward-looking statements. 

For a more detailed discussion of some of the risk factors that could (i) affect our business, financial condition, and future results, or (ii) cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" under Item 1A below. We do not intend to update any factors, except as required by SEC rules, or to publicly announce revisions to any of our forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date that such statement was made. You should consider any forward-looking statements in light of this explanation, and we caution you about relying on forward-looking statements. 

SEC Filings 

We electronically file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain these reports and statements, and any amendments, from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . You may obtain copies of these reports, and any amendments, through the investor relations section of our website at www.columbiabankingsystem.com . These reports are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. 

Introduction 

Columbia Banking System, Inc. (referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as "we," "our," the "Company," and "Columbia") is a registered financial holding company. Columbia completed its previously announced merger with Umpqua Holdings Corporation on February 28, 2023. This combined two premier banks in the Northwest to create one of the largest banks headquartered in the West. Columbia completed its core systems conversion on March 20, 2023, and branch consolidations occurred through the second quarter of 2023. 

Through the Bank, we provide a broad range of banking, private banking, mortgage, and other financial services to corporate, institutional, small business, and individual customers. FinPac, a commercial equipment leasing company, is a subsidiary of the Bank. Along with its subsidiaries, the Company is subject to the regulations of state and federal agencies and undergoes regular examinations by these regulatory agencies. 

The majority of the Bank&#8217;s loans and deposits are within its service areas in Oregon, Washington, California, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, and Utah. Umpqua Bank is an Oregon state-chartered commercial bank, the deposits of which are insured in whole or in part by the FDIC. 

Business Strategy 

Columbia Banking System, Inc., through its principal subsidiary, Umpqua Bank, seeks to bank businesses of all sizes, along with their owners, executives, and employees, in addition to the residents of the communities it serves. We seek to provide our customers with the financial sophistication and product depth of a regional banking company while retaining the appeal and service level of a community bank. Our approach is a concentrated focus on full banking relationships, bringing together collaborative teams from commercial and consumer banking as well as wealth management, and leveraging our retail branch network to provide community banking at scale. 

We continually evaluate our existing business processes while focusing on maintaining asset quality and a granular loan and deposit portfolio diversified by product, customer, industry, and geography. Our merger with Umpqua Holdings Corporation accelerated our targeted strategy to expand market share in communities in the western United States. Our scaled franchise and offerings, talented associate base, and customer-focused business model enable us to provide comprehensive financial services in a manner that serves our four identified stakeholder groups: associates, customers, shareholders, and communities. We seek to expand total revenue while controlling expenses in an effort to gain operational efficiencies and increase our return on average tangible common equity. As a result of our strong commitment to highly personalized, relationship-oriented customer service, our diverse products, our strategic branch locations, and the long-standing community presence of our associates, we believe we are well positioned to attract new customers while not only retaining existing customers, but also deepening our relationship with them. Our ability to attract and retain talented associates strengthens our ability to drive balanced growth in loans, deposits, and sustainable, core fee income that results from providing customers tailored financial solutions to meet their needs. 

Products and Services 

We place the highest priority on customer service and assist our customers in making informed decisions when selecting from the products and services we offer. Our array of financial products are delivered through traditional and digital channels to meet the banking needs of our market area and commercial and consumer customers. To ensure the ongoing viability of our product offerings, we regularly examine the desirability and profitability of existing and potential new products. Our customers can access our products through online banking, mobile banking applications, and our website: www.umpquabank.com (information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K). 

Commercial Lending Products. We offer specialized loans for corporate, middle market, and small business customers, including commercial lines of credit and term loans, accounts receivable and inventory financing, international trade finance, commercial property loans, multifamily loans, equipment loans, commercial equipment leases, real estate construction loans and permanent financing, and Small Business Administration program financing as well as capital markets. 

Treasury Management. As Umpqua Bank focuses on banking the full customer relationship and meeting the needs of customers of all sizes, we offer treasury management and payments solutions to our customers through our Global Payments &#38; Deposits group. These products include business digital and mobile banking solutions, ACH, wires, positive pay, remote deposit capture, integrated payments, integrated receivables, lockbox, cash vault, Real-Time Payments via The Clearinghouse, commercial card, and foreign exchange and international banking related products. We also offer merchant services in coordination with a strategic partner. Within our business digital experience, customers can engage in a fully authenticated chat and co-browse feature with a knowledgeable Treasury and Payments representative if they require assistance with any of the Bank&#8217;s solutions. 

Deposit Products. We offer deposit products, including non-interest bearing checking accounts, analyzed business accounts, interest-bearing checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, insured cash sweep and other investment sweep solutions, and certificates of deposit. Interest-bearing accounts earn interest at rates established by management based on competitive market factors and management's desire to increase certain types of deposit liabilities. Our approach is to provide a streamlined and differentiated experience that meets the customer's needs across all channels. This approach is designed to add value for the customer and generate related fee income for the services provided. 

Wealth Management. As a division of Umpqua Bank, the Wealth Management team provides a full suite of financial planning, investment, trust, insurance, and private banking solutions to individuals, families, and businesses through the Columbia Wealth Advisors, Columbia Trust Company, and Columbia Private Bank. We deliver personalized service and experience through dedicated financial advisors that leverage an approach that revolves around the three stages of the wealth cycle: grow, preserve, and transition. 

Residential Real Estate Loans. Real estate loans are available for the construction, purchase, and refinancing of residential owner occupied and rental properties. Borrowers can choose from a variety of fixed and adjustable rate options and terms. We sell many of the residential real estate loans that we originate into the secondary market. Servicing is retained on the majority of these loans. 

Consumer Loans. We provide loans to individual borrowers for a variety of purposes, including secured and unsecured personal loans, home equity and personal lines of credit, and motor vehicle loans. 

Market Area and Competition 

The geographic markets we serve are highly competitive for deposits, loans, and leases. We compete with traditional banking institutions, as well as non-bank financial service providers, such as credit unions, mortgage companies, fintechs, and online based financial service providers. In our primary market areas of Oregon, Washington, California, Idaho, and Nevada, major national banks generally hold top market share positions. Competition also includes small community banks that operate in concentrated areas within our footprint and other regional banks that focus on commercial and retail banking. In 2021, the Bank expanded our market area by adding loan production offices in Colorado and Arizona. In 2023, the Bank further expanded our market area by adding a branch in Utah. 

As the industry becomes increasingly oriented toward technology-driven delivery systems, permitting transactions to be conducted on mobile devices and computers, non-bank institutions are able to attract customers and provide lending and other financial services even without offices located in our primary service area. Some insurance companies and brokerage firms compete for deposits by offering rates that are higher than the weighted average market price and may be inappropriate for the Bank in relation to its asset and liability management objectives. 

Credit unions present a significant competitive challenge for our banking services and products. As credit unions currently enjoy an exemption from income tax, they are able to offer higher deposit rates and lower loan rates than banks can on a comparable basis. Credit unions are also not currently subject to certain regulatory constraints, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, which, among other things, requires us to implement procedures to make and monitor loans throughout the communities we serve. Adhering to such regulatory requirements raises the costs associated with our lending activities and reduces potential operating profits. Accordingly, we seek to compete by focusing on building customer relationships, providing superior service, and offering a wide variety of commercial and consumer banking products. Our branch system funds our lending activities and allows us to better serve both retail (consumer) and business (commercial) depositors. We believe this approach enables us to expand lending activities while attracting a stable core deposit base and enhancing utilization of our full range of products and services. Our branch system and other delivery channels are continually evaluated as an important component of ongoing efforts to improve efficiencies without compromising customer service. 

The following table presents the Bank's market share percentage for total deposits as of June 30, 2023 in each state where we have operations. As the Bank's branch in Utah was not established until August 2023, it is not included in the table below. The table also indicates the ranking by deposit size in each market. All information in the table was obtained from S&#38;P Global, which compiles deposit data published by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as of June 30, 2023 and updates the information for any bank mergers and acquisitions completed subsequent to the reporting date. ##TABLE_START State Market Share Market Rank Number of Branches Oregon 15.78 % 2 108 Washington 7.15 % 5 106 Idaho 3.70 % 11 25 Nevada 0.47 % 16 4 California 0.39 % 24 61 ##TABLE_END

Sustainability and Environmental, Social, and Governance 

We take pride in being a proactive partner to build stronger, more resilient, and inclusive economies. Our approach to sustainability is about making better business decisions that support all of our stakeholders for the long term, and it is embedded in the fabric of our corporate values and culture, driving us to think very intentionally about the communities we serve. In 2023, the organization continued to track our corporate responsibility performance against ESG standards outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board frameworks. 

Our annual ESG Report is available at the &#8220;About Us-Our Impact&#8221; section of the Bank's website (www.umpquabank.com) but is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The ESG Report provides additional detail about our evolving ESG work as it relates to the breadth of our stakeholders. 

The following is a brief overview: 

Associates 

We create an environment where our associates have the chance to grow, connect, and do meaningful work together. Relationship banking is at our core, and our people are the key to maintaining relationships with each other, our customers, and our communities. We intentionally create an environment where associates care about one another, root for the customer down the street, and participate in making their community a better place to live and work. Our associates are encouraged to use their skills and passions to make a difference in their communities while growing their careers and being recognized and appreciated for their diverse talents, backgrounds, and perspectives. 

&#8226; We emphasize a culture of kindness and positivity, encouraging behaviors consistent with our Do Right TOGETHER 1 values, which describe the qualities we expect all of our associates to embody every day in all interactions with other associates, customers, shareholders, and in our communities. 

&#8226; Diversity, equity, and inclusion are strong anchors in our foundation. We celebrate differences and encourage authenticity, not just where we work, but also with our customers and in our communities. 

&#8226; We support our associates with a portfolio of programs that address their well-being, from physical and financial health to community connections and workplace recognition. 

Customers 

We are committed to helping individuals, families, and businesses t hrive . The Company focuses on the genuine human connection and building long-term relationships by putting customer needs first. We see technology as a vital tool to better serve our customers expanding access to the expertise of our bankers. 

&#8226; We prioritize financial health and access to capital for our customers and communities. We continue to innovate and find new ways to provide access to financial solutions across a diverse customer base. 

&#8226; Underscoring our commitment to the growth and success of our customers and their needs, we surveyed 1,250 businesses nationwide to gauge their perspective and plans on the United States economy and business conditions. 2023 was the sixth year in a row that the Bank has published the Umpqua Bank Business Barometer Report with insights from these small and middle market business leaders throughout the country. 

&#8226; In 2023, we continued to invest in community lending efforts to promote access to homeownership for first-time homebuyers through responsible lending practices and education programs. 

1 The Do Right TOGETHER values consist of: 

T: Build TRUST through credibility. 

O: Take OWNERSHIP of personal and company goals. 

G: Pursue GROWTH for you, your customers, and communities. 

E: Practice EMPATHY to increase understanding. 

T: Embrace TEAMWORK to improve outcomes. 

H: Serve others with HEART. 

E: Bring ENJOYMENT to everything you do. 

R: Form lasting RELATIONSHIPS with customers and each other. 

Communities 

We strive to help level the economic playing field by taking a leading role in helping our communities prosper. Our approach to community investment focuses on increasing the economic vitality of our communities, particularly in places where systemic challenges hinder access to financial expertise, gainful employment, and building intergenerational wealth. 

&#8226; Through the Umpqua Bank Charitable Foundation, we are committed to providing grant funding in communities in which we have a physical banking presence. In addition to other programs and in celebration of Umpqua Bank and Columbia Banking System&#8217;s respective 70 th and 30 th anniversaries, the Foundation made grants totaling $1 million to several local nonprofits who have shown strong community leadership, a c ommitment to improving access to economic opportunity, and their support for a variety of under-resourced communities in the areas of affordable housing and homeownership, education, career readiness, entrepreneurship, and health and wellness. 

&#8226; In 2023, we initiated a giving focus for underrepresented groups, and we continue to support our associates by offering a matching program that doubles their gifts, including an increased giving match in support of organizations aligned with the Company's Associate Resource Groups. 

&#8226; Umpqua Bank expanded its operational capacity to meet the needs of Individual Development Accounts providers and savers, enabling low-income families to save towards a targeted goal and purpose. 

&#8226; After the Merger close in early 2023, we began executing on the $8.1 billion Community Benefits Plan with the National Community Reinvestment Coalition that builds on our commitment to advance economic opportunity for individuals and support small business formation in historically underserved communities throughout the Bank&#8217;s footprint. In support of this, we convened a Community Advisory Panel, comprised of nonprofit partners that represent under-resourced groups from throughout the Bank&#8217;s footprint, to help to guide our efforts. 

&#8226; The Company's Connect Volunteer Network&#8482; continues to be one of the nation's leading volunteer programs, providing all associates with up to 40 hours of paid time off each year committed to a wide range of community needs. 

&#8226; 2023 saw record contributions for our annual Warm Hearts Winter Drive supporting those experiencing homelessness, bringing the nine-year total to $2.5 million. 

Planet 

We focus on smart business operations that benefit both the environment and the company . As a financial institution, we acknowledge the economic, societal, and ecological impacts of climate change to our business and to our customers. It is our responsibility to advance smart, responsible practices that lessen our impact and contribute to the company's business goals. As we expand into new markets, we are taking steps that are designed to optimize the resources we consume and minimize the waste we create, limiting our operational impact so that we help both our communities and our bottom line. 

&#8226; The Company's intention to align operational processes with our commitment to reduce our impact on the environment is stronger than ever. 

&#8226; We maintain an Environmental Commitment Statement . 

&#8226; Through the ESG Report, we publicly report our Greenhouse Gas Inventory as well as our energy, water, and business travel usage. 

Stakeholder Engagement 

We solicit input from our stakeholders through a variety of channels, including: 

&#8226; Customers may provide feedback to any of our associates through our customer resource center and through outreach from our customer insights team. 

&#8226; Associates may provide feedback through periodic engagement surveys, executive listening sessions, and all-hands and division calls. 

&#8226; Communities may reach out anytime or talk directly with footprint-based Community Impact Officers. 

&#8226; We maintain regular contact with government entities and regulatory bodies. 

&#8226; Investors may contact our Director of Investor Relations via our Investor Relations webpage (www.columbiabankingsystem.com). 

Human Capital 

In our unique brand of banking, where relationships come first, associates are vital to our success. We bring together the power of the collective talents, skills, and expertise of our dedicated associates to realize our purpose, and to deliver on our commitment to our customers and our communities. We believe in helping businesses and families thrive, and equally, in helping our associates thrive. 

We strive to deliver an employment experience anchored in a healthy and vibrant culture that appreciates and respects all associates. Our Do Right Together culture, and the values of Trust, Ownership, Growth, Empathy, Teamwork, Heart, Enjoyment, and Relationships, shape how we approach and serve our associates, customers, shareholders, and communities. 

We empower our associates to grow, connect, and do meaningful work. We recognize their diverse talents, backgrounds, and perspectives. And we are dedicated to providing competitive, performance-based compensation along with attractive benefits, a safe and healthy workplace, and a wealth of learning opportunities. 

Demographics . As of December 31, 2023, we employed 5,114 employees, the majority of which were full-time associates. Our workforce includes customer-facing associates across our various business lines. These include our retail branches, business and commercial banking teams, Wealth Management experts, as well as professionals in various support functions that enable the business, such as technology, finance, risk, audit, legal, and human resources. Our teams are primarily in eight western states. 

While our workforce increased compared to the prior period as a result of the Merger, total workforce decreased by 11% on a combined company basis, which was driven primarily by natural attrition, merger-related reductions, and shifts in the business strategy in specific lines of business. Turnover rate, as calculated in our payroll system on a combined basis, was under 24%. 

Employee Health and Well-being . We have embraced a go-forward hybrid work model for many functions and roles, where associates may work remotely two days per week, while working in one of our Community Hubs the other three days. This model is supported by technology teaming solutions and allows our associates to have the flexibility to work remotely while also enjoying the benefits of in-person collaboration and being part of a workplace community and company culture. 

We offer competitive medical, dental, vision, life, short and long-term disability, and accident insurance, in addition to paid time off for vacation, sick time, and volunteerism. Medical benefits are available to associates working 30 hours per week, while paid time off begins at 20 hours per week. These programs are assessed regularly against market benchmarks. 

Compensation. We attract and reward our associates by providing market competitive compensation and benefit practices. Our compensation approach is designed to pay for performance and reward associate contributions. Our salary structure is informed by market data, and recognizing that the compensation environment is dynamic, we review and adjust our pay ranges regularly. This includes an ongoing practice of analyzing pay equity. In addition, many positions have incentive plans to encourage achievement of various corporate, business unit, and individual goals. 

On a regular basis, we conduct an associate engagement survey to gain insights into associate sentiment about various aspects of the associate experience. This feedback is used to assess the effectiveness of our people practices and prioritize enhancements to our programs. 

Talent Development. We believe in the growth of our associates as individuals and as professionals. Our talent development programs provide our associates with the skills and experiences that allow them to thrive, supporting achievement of their personal career goals. We provide a best-in-class online learning catalog that is on-demand for all associates, in addition to specific training for many roles. Our development programs build key leadership capabilities, and support growth of our internal leadership talent pipeline. We have available new manager programs, tuition reimbursement, banking school participation, coaching, and mentoring programs. Additionally, we have a robust annual talent review and succession planning program that is key to our overall talent management practice. This results in targeted development approaches, identification of emerging talent, and a healthy succession-talent bench. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion . The Company is committed to ensuring a culture of inclusion where differences are respected, celebrated, and embraced. We are committed to creating a banking experience where the relationships we build and the solutions we offer support and attract the diversity of our communities. Our goal is to recruit the best qualified associates, building teams that reflect our communities&#8217; experiences, cultures, and perspectives, and it is our policy to comply with all laws applicable to discrimination in the workplace. Our commitment to inclusivity is embedded in our strategy and we continue to enhance our DEI practices, which are guided by our executive team and overseen by the Board of Director&#8217;s Nominating and Governance Committee. We have continued to expand programs that support inclusivity and belonging across all of our stakeholder groups, such as our Associate Resource Groups, which are open to all associates participating as members or allies and increasing our DEI-focused giving to $500,000 in 2023. We currently have five resource groups: Pride, Women, Military, BIPOC, and People with Disabilities. Our Diversity Council is comprised of individuals from across the organization, who advance our diversity and inclusion initiatives. We strive to be a bank for everyone and take pride in our role as a community leader. An illustration of our commitment at the most senior level is in the diverse make-up of our 14 member Board that includes five women and four BIPOC, with women chairing three, or 60%, of the Board committees or subsidiary boards. 

Information about our Executive Officers 

Information regarding employment agreements with our executive officers is contained in Item 11 below, which item is incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement. 

Government Policies 

The operations of the Company and our subsidiaries are affected by state and federal legislative and regulatory changes and by policies of various regulatory authorities, including domestic monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, United States fiscal policy, and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by federal and state regulatory agencies. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion provides an overview of certain elements of the extensive regulatory framework applicable to the Company and Umpqua Bank, which operates in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington. This regulatory framework is primarily designed for the protection of depositors, customers, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, rather than specifically for the protection of shareholders or non-depository creditors. Due to the breadth and growth of this regulatory framework, our costs of compliance continue to increase in order to monitor and satisfy these requirements. 

To the extent that this section describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified by reference to those provisions. These statutes and regulations, as well as related policies, are subject to change by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulators. Changes in statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to us, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our continued efforts to monitor and comply with new regulatory requirements and developments add to the complexity and cost of our business. 

Federal and State Bank Holding Company Regulation 

General . The Company is a bank holding company as defined in the BHCA that has elected to become a financial holding company, and is therefore subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Company must file reports with and provide the Federal Reserve such additional information as it may require. Under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, a bank holding company may apply to the Federal Reserve to become a financial holding company, and thereby engage (directly or through a subsidiary) in certain expanded activities deemed financial in nature, such as securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are determined by the FRB, in coordination with the Treasury Department, to be &#8220;financial in nature or incidental thereto&#8221; or that the FRB determines unilaterally to be &#8220;complementary&#8221; to financial activities. Upon the consummation of our merger with UHC in early 2023, the Company elected to be treated as a financial holding company. To maintain its status as a financial holding company, a bank holding company (and all of its depository institution subsidiaries) must each remain &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed.&#8221; If a bank holding company fails to meet these regulatory standards, the Federal Reserve could place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of the bank holding company or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the Federal Reserve could order the bank holding company to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies. 

Holding Company Bank Ownership . The BHCA requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, it would own or control more than 5% of such shares; (ii) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company; or (iii) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. In addition, under the Bank Merger Act of 1960, as amended, the prior approval of the FDIC is required for the Bank to merge with another bank or purchase all or substantially all of the assets or assume any of the deposits of another FDIC-insured depository institution. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, bank regulators consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position and managerial resources of the combined organization, the risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, the applicant&#8217;s performance record under the CRA, the applicant&#8217;s compliance with other laws, including fair housing and consumer protection laws, and the effectiveness of all organizations involved in combating money laundering activities. In addition, failure to implement or maintain adequate compliance programs could cause bank regulators not to approve an acquisition where regulatory approval is required or to prohibit an acquisition even if approval is not required. 

In July 2021, the Biden administration issued an executive order on competition, which included provisions relating to bank mergers. These provisions &#8220;encourage&#8221; the Department of Justice and the federal banking regulators to update guidelines on banking mergers and to provide more scrutiny of bank mergers. We are unable to predict what impact the executive order, or any responsive change to such guidelines, will have on the timing of or ability to obtain regulatory approvals of future mergers. 

Holding Company Control of Nonbanks. With some exceptions, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company, or from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing, or controlling banks, or providing services for its subsidiaries. The principal exceptions to these prohibitions involve certain non-bank activities that, by statute or by Federal Reserve regulation or order, have been identified as activities so closely related to the business of banking as to be a proper incident thereto. 

Tying Arrangements . We are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, sale or lease of property or furnishing of services. For example, with certain exceptions, neither the Company nor its subsidiaries may condition an extension of credit to a customer on either (i) a requirement that the customer obtain additional services provided by us; or (ii) an agreement by the customer to refrain from obtaining other services from a competitor. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks . Under Federal Reserve policy and federal law, the Company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to Umpqua Bank, including at times when we may not be in a financial position to provide such resources, and it may not be in our, or our shareholders&#8217; best interests to do so. This means that the Company is required to commit resources, as necessary, to support Umpqua Bank. Any capital loans the Company makes to Umpqua Bank are subordinate to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of Umpqua Bank. 

State Law Restrictions . As a Washington corporation, the Company is subject to certain limitations and restrictions under applicable Washington corporate law. For example, state law restrictions in Washington include limitations and restrictions relating to indemnification of directors, distributions to shareholders, transactions involving directors, officers or interested shareholders, maintenance of books, records and minutes, and observance of certain corporate formalities. 

Federal and State Regulation of Umpqua Bank 

General . The deposits of Umpqua Bank, an Oregon state-chartered commercial bank in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington, are insured by the FDIC. As a result, Umpqua Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the DCBS and the FDIC. These agencies have the authority to prohibit banks from engaging in what they believe constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. Furthermore, under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC if the FDIC finds that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. With respect to branches of Umpqua Bank, the Bank is also subject to certain laws and regulations governing its activities in the states in which we operate. 

State Bank Regulation . Umpqua Bank, as an Oregon state-chartered bank, is primarily subject to the state-level supervision and regulation of the DCBS. In addition, Umpqua Bank is subject to regulation by the financial institution oversight authorities in the states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington. Our primary state regulator regularly examines the Bank or participates in joint examinations with the FDIC; these agencies may prohibit the Bank from engaging in what they believe constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. 

Consumer Protection . The Bank is subject to a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations that govern its relationship with consumers, including laws and regulations that impose certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which we take deposits, make, and collect loans, and provide other services. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to, enforcement actions, injunctions, fines, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties, punitive damages, and the loss of certain contractual rights. As an insured depository institution with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has primary enforcement and enforcement authority for federal consumer financial laws over the Bank. This includes the right to obtain information about the Bank&#8217;s activities and compliance systems and procedures and to detect and assess risks to consumers and markets. The CFPB engages in several activities, including (i) investigating consumer complaints about credit cards and mortgages, (ii) launching supervisory programs, (iii) conducting research for and developing mandatory financial product disclosures, and (iv) engaging in consumer financial protection rulemaking. Umpqua Bank has established a compliance management system designed to ensure consumer protection. In October 2023, the CFPB issued a proposed rule regarding personal financial data rights that would apply to financial institutions that offer consumer deposit accounts such as Umpqua Bank. Covered financial institutions would be required to provide consumers electronic access to 24 months of transaction data and certain account information under the proposed rule and would be prohibited from imposing any fees or charges for maintaining or providing access to such data. The proposed rule would also impose data accuracy, retention, and other obligations. We will continue to evaluate the proposed rule and the impact on Umpqua Bank. 

Community Reinvestment . The CRA requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their jurisdiction, the Federal Reserve, OCC or the FDIC evaluate the record of the financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. A bank&#8217;s community reinvestment record is also considered by the applicable banking agencies in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. The Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the CRA could, among other things, result in the denial or delay of such transactions. The Bank received a rating of "Satisfactory" in its most recently completed CRA examination. On October 24, 2023, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and the OCC jointly issued a final rule amending the agencies&#8217; CRA regulations to achieve the following goals: (i) encourage banks to expand access to credit, investment and banking services in low- and moderate-income communities, (ii) adapt to changes in the banking industry, including internet and mobile banking, (iii) provide greater clarity and consistency in the application of the CRA regulations and (iv) tailor CRA evaluations and data collection to bank size and type. Management will continue to evaluate any changes to CRA regulations. 

Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism and Sanctions. The BSA requires all financial institutions, including banks, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. It includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting) as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. 

The Patriot Act further augments and strengthens the requirements set forth in the BSA. The Patriot Act, in relevant part, (i) prohibits banks from providing correspondent accounts directly to foreign shell banks; (ii) imposes due diligence requirements on banks opening or holding accounts for foreign financial institutions or wealthy foreign individuals; (iii) requires financial institutions to establish an anti-money-laundering compliance program; and (iv) eliminates civil liability for persons who file suspicious activity reports. The Patriot Act also includes provisions providing the government with power to investigate terrorism, including expanded government access to bank account records. 

Umpqua Bank is also subject to regulation under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Trading with the Enemy Act, as administered by the United States Treasury Department&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;Sanctions Laws&#8221;). The Sanctions Laws are intended to restrict transactions with persons, companies, or foreign governments sanctions by U.S. authorities. An institution that fails to meet these standards may be subject to regulatory sanctions, including limitations on growth. Umpqua Bank has established compliance programs designed to comply with the BSA, the Patriot Act and applicable Sanctions Laws. 

Transactions with Affiliates; Insider Credit Transactions . Transactions between the Bank and its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the Company or any other subsidiary, on the other hand, are regulated under federal banking law. The Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative and qualitative requirements and collateral requirements on covered transactions by the Bank with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates. In addition, subsidiary banks of a bank holding company are subject to restrictions on extensions of credit to the holding company or its subsidiaries, on investments in securities of the holding company or its subsidiaries and on the use of their securities as collateral for loans to any borrower. These regulations and restrictions may limit the Company&#8217;s ability to obtain funds from Umpqua Bank for its cash needs, including funds for payment of dividends, interest, and operational expenses. 

Banks are also subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, or any related interests of such persons. Extensions of credit (i) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are at least as stringent as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with persons not related to the lending bank; and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Banks are also subject to certain lending limits and restrictions on overdrafts to insiders. A violation of these restrictions may result in the assessment of substantial civil monetary penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, and other regulatory sanctions. The Umpqua Bank board has established controls to ensure compliance with regulatory expectations around affiliated transactions. 

Regulation of Management . Federal law (i) sets forth circumstances under which officers or directors of a bank may be removed by the institution&#8217;s federal supervisory agency; (ii) places constraints on lending by a bank to its executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, and their related interests; and (iii) generally prohibits management personnel of a bank from serving as directors or in other management positions of another financial institution whose assets exceed a specified amount or which has an office within a specified geographic area. 

Safety and Soundness Standards . Certain non-capital safety and soundness standards are also imposed upon banks. These standards cover internal controls, information systems and internal audit, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, such other operational and managerial standards as the agency determines to be appropriate, and standards for asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation. An institution that fails to meet these standards may be subject to regulatory sanctions, including limitations on growth. Umpqua Bank has established policies and risk management activities designed to ensure the safety and soundness of the Bank. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

The Interstate Act together with the Dodd-Frank Act relaxed prior interstate branching restrictions under federal law by permitting, subject to regulatory approval, state and federally chartered commercial banks to establish branches in states where the laws permit banks chartered in such states to establish branches. The Interstate Act requires regulators to consult with community organizations before permitting an interstate institution to close a branch in a low-income area. Federal banking agency regulations prohibit banks from using their interstate branches primarily for deposit production and the federal banking agencies have implemented a loan-to-deposit ratio screen to ensure compliance with this prohibition. 

Dividends 

Columbia is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a bank holding company, Columbia is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends under applicable banking laws and regulations. Federal bank regulators are authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. In particular, federal bank regulators have stated that paying dividends that deplete a banking organization&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, in the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. Federal Reserve policy also provides that a bank holding company should inform the Federal Reserve reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the bank holding company&#8217;s capital structure. 

A significant portion of our income comes from dividends from the Bank, which is also the primary source of our liquidity. In addition to the restrictions discussed above, the Bank is subject to limitations under Oregon law regarding the level of dividends that it may pay to the Company. Oregon law provides that a bank may not pay dividends greater than the bank&#8217;s unreserved retained earnings, deducting therefrom, to the extent not already charged against earnings or reflected in a reserve, all bad debts, which are debts on which interest is past due and unpaid for at least six months, unless the debt is fully secured and in the process of collection; all other assets charged-off as required by Oregon bank regulators or a state or federal examiner; and all accrued expenses, interest and taxes of the institution. Under the Oregon Bank Act and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, Umpqua Bank is subject to restrictions on the payment of cash dividends to its parent company and may be required to receive prior approval in certain circumstances. In addition, state and federal regulatory authorities are authorized to prohibit banks and holding companies from paying dividends that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Bank currently has an accumulated deficit and is required to seek FDIC and DCBS approval for dividends from Umpqua Bank to the Company. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Federal Reserve monitors the capital adequacy of the Company on a consolidated basis, and the FDIC and the DCBS will monitor the capital adequacy of the Bank. The Capital Rules are based on the December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, of the Basel Committee. As of December 31, 2023, Columbia and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements under the Capital Rules, as described below. 

The Capital Rules, among other things (i) include a capital measure called CET1, (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting specified requirements and (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital. 

Under the Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios are (i) 4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets, (ii) 6% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets and (iii) 8% total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets. 

The Capital Rules also require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of CET1 in an amount above the minimum risk-based capital requirements for &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; institutions equal to 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income&#8221; (that is, the greater of (i) net income for the preceding four quarters, net of distributions and associated tax effects not reflected in net income and (ii) average net income over the preceding four quarters). 

The Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. The Capital Rules also generally preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from being counted as Tier 1 capital for most bank holding companies. 

In addition, the Company and the Bank are subject to the final rule adopted by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC in July 2019 relating to simplifications of the capital rules applicable to non-advanced approaches banking organizations. These rules became effective for the Company on April 1, 2020 and provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms. The standards are commonly referred to as &#8220;Basel IV.&#8221; Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee&#8217;s standardized approach for credit risk (including by recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain &#8220;unconditionally cancellable commitments,&#8221; such as home equity lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. The Basel framework standards have been generally effective since January 1, 2023, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2028. 

The Bank is also subject to the prompt corrective action regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA. See &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action Framework&#8221; below. 

Prompt Corrective Action Framework 

The FDIA requires the federal bank regulators to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that fail to meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (&#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;), and the federal bank regulators are required to take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. 

Under the rules currently in effect, the following table presents the requirements for an insured depository institution to be classified as well-capitalized or adequately capitalized: 

##TABLE_START 

&#8220;Well-capitalized&#8221; 

&#8220;Adequately capitalized&#8221; 

Total capital ratio of at least 10%, 

Total capital ratio of at least 8%, 

Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, 

Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% 

CET1 ratio of at least 6.5%, 

CET1 ratio of at least 4.5%, and 

Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, and 

Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. 

Not subject to any order or written directive requiring a specific capital level. 

##TABLE_END

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. A bank&#8217;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the Bank&#8217;s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. 

As of December 31, 2023, the Company and the Bank met the capital requirements to be well-capitalized with CET1 capital ratios of 9.64% and 10.52%, respectively, Tier 1 capital ratios of 9.64% and 10.52%, respectively, total capital ratios of 11.86% and 11.57%, respectively, and Tier 1 leverage ratios of 7.60% and 8.30%, respectively. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal bank regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling bank holding company under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5% of an undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions and capital distributions, establishing any branches, or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Brokered Deposits 

The FDIA prohibits an insured depository institution from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the Bank&#8217;s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited) unless it is well-capitalized or is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A depository institution that is adequately capitalized and accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. 

Regulatory Oversight and Examination 

The Federal Reserve conducts periodic inspections of bank holding companies. The supervisory objectives of the inspection program are to ascertain whether the financial strength of the bank holding company is being maintained on an ongoing basis and to determine the effects or consequences of transactions between a holding company or its non-banking subsidiaries and its subsidiary banks. 

Banks are subject to periodic examinations by their primary regulators. Bank examinations have evolved from reliance on transaction testing in assessing a bank&#8217;s condition to a risk-focused approach. These examinations are extensive and cover the entire breadth of operations of the Bank. Generally, FDIC safety and soundness examinations for a bank of our size are completed on an annual basis through the execution of a quarterly focal review process. The FDIC and state bank regulatory agencies complete these examinations on a combined schedule. 

The CFPB has primary examination and enforcement authority over institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, including the Bank, with respect to various federal consumer protection laws, and we are subject to continued examination by the FDIC on certain consumer regulations. State authorities are also responsible for monitoring our compliance with all state consumer laws. 

The frequency of consumer compliance and CRA examinations is linked to the size of the institution and its compliance and CRA ratings at its most recent examinations. However, the examination authority of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC allows them to examine supervised banks as frequently as deemed necessary based on the condition of the Bank or as a result of certain triggering events. 

Financial Privacy 

Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended, a financial institution may not disclose non-public personal information about a consumer to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution satisfies various disclosure requirements and the consumer has not elected to opt out of the information sharing. The financial institution must provide its customers with a notice of its privacy policies and practices. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other financial regulatory agencies issued regulations implementing notice requirements and restrictions on a financial institution's ability to disclose non-public personal information about consumers to unaffiliated third parties. 

In addition, privacy and data protection are areas of increasing state legislative focus, and several states have recently enacted consumer privacy laws that impose significant compliance obligations with respect to personal information. For example, the Company is subject to the CCPA and its implementing regulations. The CCPA gives consumers the right to request disclosure of information collected about them, and whether that information has been sold or shared with others, the right to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions), the right to opt out of the sale of the consumer&#8217;s personal information, and the right not to be discriminated against for exercising these rights. The CCPA contains several exemptions, including an exemption applicable to information that is collected, processed, sold, or disclosed pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended. In November 2020, voters in the CPRA, a ballot measure that amends and supplements the CCPA by, among other things, expanding certain rights relating to personal information and its use, collection, and disclosure by covered businesses. The key provisions of the CPRA became effective on January 1, 2023, with civil and administrative enforcement of the CPRA beginning July 1, 2023. Similar laws may in the future be adopted by other states where the Company does business. The Company has made and will make operational adjustments in accordance with the requirements of the CCPA and other state privacy laws. Furthermore, privacy and data protection areas are expected to receive further attention at the federal level. The potential effects of state or federal privacy and data protection laws on the Company&#8217;s business cannot be determined at this time and will depend both on whether such laws are adopted by states in which the Company does business and/or at the federal level and the requirements imposed by any such laws. 

Cybersecurity 

The federal banking agencies have established certain expectations with respect to an institution's information security and cybersecurity programs, with an increasing focus on risk management, processes related to information technology and operational resiliency, and the use of third parties in the provision of financial services. In October 2016, the federal banking agencies jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cybersecurity risk-management and resilience standards that would address five categories of cyber standards which include (i) cyber risk governance, (ii) cyber risk management, (iii) internal dependency management, (iv) external dependency management, and (v) incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. The federal banking agencies have not yet taken further action on these proposed standards. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs with detailed requirements, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level cybersecurity regulation to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which the Company operates. 

In February 2018, the SEC published interpretive guidance to assist public companies in preparing disclosures about cybersecurity risks and incidents. These SEC guidelines, and any other regulatory guidance, are in addition to notification and disclosure requirements under state and federal banking law and regulations. In addition, on July 26, 2023, the SEC adopted new rules that require reporting in Current Reports on Form 8-K of material cybersecurity incidents. These new rules also require disclosures in Annual Reports on Form 10-K describing (i) the processes for assessing, identifying and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats, (ii) the material effects or reasonably likely material effects of risks from cybersecurity threats and previous cybersecurity incidents and (iii) the board of directors&#8217; oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats and management&#8217;s role and expertise in assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. 

In November 2021, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies adopted a rule regarding notification requirements for banking organizations related to significant computer security incidents. Under the final rule, a bank holding company, such as the Company, and an FDIC-supervised insured depository institution, such as the Bank, are required to notify the Federal Reserve or FDIC, respectively, within 36 hours of incidents that have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations of the banking organization, or impact the stability of the financial sector. 

Corporate Governance and Accounting 

SOX addresses, among other things, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information, and penalties for non-compliance. Generally, SOX (i) requires CEOs and CFOs to certify the accuracy of periodic reports filed with the SEC; (ii) imposes specific and enhanced corporate disclosure requirements; (iii) accelerates the time frame for reporting of insider transactions and periodic disclosures by public companies; (iv) requires companies to adopt and disclose information about corporate governance practices, including whether or not they have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers and whether the audit committee includes at least one &#8220;audit committee financial expert;&#8221; and (v) requires the SEC, based on certain enumerated factors, to regularly and systematically review corporate filings. 

Deposit Insurance 

The Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured under the FDIA up to the maximum applicable limits and are subject to deposit insurance assessments designed to tie what banks pay for deposit insurance to the risks they pose. Under the FDIC&#8217;s assessment system for determining payments to the DIF, large IDIs with more than $10 billion in assets are assessed under a complex &#8220;scorecard&#8221; methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs. The assessment base of a large IDI is its total assets less tangible equity. In addition, the FDIC must recover, by special assessment, losses to the FDIC deposit insurance fund as a result of the FDIC&#8217;s use of the systemic risk exception to the least cost resolution test under the FDIA. For additional discussion of this special assessment, see the section entitled "Non-Interest Expense" under Item 7 below. 

The Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The statutory provision is commonly called the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; The Volcker Rule does not significantly impact the operations of the Company and the Bank, as we do not have any significant engagement in the businesses prohibited by the Volcker Rule. 

Interchange Fees 

The Company is subject to rules governing interchange fees, which establish standards for assessing whether the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to certain electronic debit transactions are &#8220;reasonable and proportional&#8221; to the costs incurred by issuers for processing such transactions. 

Interchange fees, or &#8220;swipe&#8221; fees, are charges that merchants pay to us and other card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Under applicable rules, the maximum permissible interchange fee is equal to no more than 21 cents plus 5 basis points of the transaction value for many types of debit interchange transactions. The Federal Reserve also adopted a rule to allow a debit card issuer to recover one cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements required by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve also has rules governing routing and exclusivity that require issuers to offer two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions on each debit or prepaid product. 

Incentive Compensation 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulators and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, including us and the Bank, having at least $1 billion in total assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve and FDIC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#8217;s board of directors. 

During the second quarter of 2016, the U.S. financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the SEC, proposed revised rules on incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion in total assets, but these proposed rules have not been finalized. 

The Federal Reserve will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as us, that are not &#8220;large, complex banking organizations.&#8221; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

In October 2023, Nasdaq adopted a rule as required by the SEC&#8217;s 2022 rule-making that requires listed companies to adopt policies mandating the recovery or &#8220;clawback&#8221; of excess incentive-based compensation earned by a current or former executive officer during the three fiscal years preceding a required accounting restatement, including to correct an error that would result in a material misstatement if the error were corrected in the current period or left uncorrected in the current period. The excess compensation would be based on the amount the executive officer would have received had the incentive-based compensation been determined using the restated financials. Effective as of December 1, 2023, Columbia adopted a clawback policy in accordance with Nasdaq&#8217;s listing standards. 

Proposed Legislation 

Proposed legislation relating to the banking industry is introduced in almost every legislative session. Certain of such legislation could dramatically affect the regulation of the banking industry. We cannot predict if any such legislation will be adopted or if it is adopted how it would affect the business of Umpqua Bank or the Company. Recent history has demonstrated that new legislation or changes to existing laws or regulations usually results in a greater compliance burden and therefore generally increases the cost of doing business. 

Effects of Government Monetary Policy 

Our earnings and growth are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, particularly the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve implements national monetary policy for such purposes as curbing inflation and combating recession, but its open market operations in U.S. government securities, control of the discount rate applicable to borrowings from the Federal Reserve, and establishment of reserve requirements against certain deposits influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The nature and impact of future changes in monetary policies and their impact on us cannot be predicted with certainty. 

