 Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Cautionary Notice about Forward-Looking Statements and Other Terms 

From time to time we have made, and in the future will make, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;pursue,&#8221; &#8220;seek,&#8221; &#8220;continue,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;project,&#8221; &#8220;outlook,&#8221; &#8220;forecast,&#8221; &#8220;potential,&#8221; &#8220;target,&#8221; &#8220;objective,&#8221; &#8220;trend,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;goal,&#8221; &#8220;initiative,&#8221; &#8220;priorities,&#8221; or other words of comparable meaning or future-tense or conditional verbs such as &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;would,&#8221; or &#8220;could.&#8221; Forward-looking statements convey our expectations, intentions, or forecasts about future events, circumstances, or results. 

This report, including any information incorporated by reference in this report, contains forward-looking statements. We also may make forward-looking statements in other documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, we may make forward-looking statements orally or in writing to investors, analysts, members of the media, or others. 

All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, which may change over time and many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction or guarantee about the future. Actual future objectives, strategies, plans, prospects, performance, conditions, or results may differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking statement. While no list of assumptions, risks, or uncertainties could be complete, some of the factors that may cause actual results or other future events or circumstances to differ from those in forward-looking statements include: 

&#8226; evolving local, regional, national, or international business, economic, or political conditions; 

&#8226; changes in laws or the regulatory or supervisory environment, including as a result of financial-services legislation, regulation, or policies or changes in government officials or other personnel; 

&#8226; changes in monetary, fiscal, or trade laws or policies, including as a result of actions by governmental agencies, central banks, or supranational authorities; 

&#8226; changes in accounting standards or policies; 

&#8226; changes in the automotive industry or the markets for new or used vehicles, including the rise of vehicle sharing and ride hailing, the development of autonomous and alternative-energy vehicles, and the impact of demographic shifts on attitudes and behaviors toward vehicle type, ownership, and use; 

&#8226; any instability or breakdown in the financial system, including as a result of the failure of a financial institution or other participants in it (such as the banking failures during 2023); 

&#8226; disruptions or shifts in investor sentiment or behavior in the securities, capital, or other financial markets, including financial or systemic shocks and volatility or changes in market liquidity, interest or currency rates, or valuations; 

&#8226; changes in business or consumer sentiment, preferences, or behavior, including spending, borrowing, or saving by businesses or households; 

&#8226; changes in our corporate or business strategies, the composition of our assets, or the way in which we fund those assets; 

&#8226; our ability to execute our business strategy for Ally Bank, including its digital focus; 

&#8226; our ability to optimize our automotive finance and insurance businesses and to continue diversifying into and growing other consumer and commercial business lines, including mortgage lending, credit cards, corporate finance, brokerage, and personal advice; 

&#8226; our ability to develop capital plans acceptable to the FRB and our ability to implement them, including any payment of dividends or share repurchases; 

&#8226; our ability to conduct appropriate stress tests and effectively plan for and manage capital or liquidity consistent with evolving business or operational needs, risk-management standards, and regulatory or supervisory requirements or expectations; 

&#8226; our ability to cost-effectively fund our business and operations, including through deposits (which could be subject to sudden withdrawals) and the capital markets; 

&#8226; changes in any credit rating assigned to Ally, including Ally Bank, or the ratings for our insurance business; 

&#8226; adverse publicity or other reputational harm to us, our service providers, or our senior officers; 

&#8226; our ability to develop, maintain, or market our products or services or to absorb unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with those products or services; 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; our ability to innovate, to anticipate the needs of current or future customers, to successfully compete, to increase or hold market share in changing competitive environments, or to deal with pricing or other competitive pressures; 

&#8226; the continuing profitability and viability of our dealer-centric automotive finance and insurance businesses, especially in the face of competition from captive finance companies and their automotive manufacturing sponsors and challenges to the dealer&#8217;s role as intermediary between manufacturers and purchasers; 

&#8226; our ability to appropriately underwrite loans that we originate or purchase and to otherwise manage credit risk; 

&#8226; changes in the credit, liquidity, or other financial condition of our customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively deal with economic, business, or market slowdowns or disruptions; 

&#8226; our ability to address heightened scrutiny and expectations from supervisory or other governmental authorities and to timely and credibly remediate related concerns or deficiencies; 

&#8226; judicial, regulatory, or administrative inquiries, examinations, investigations, proceedings, disputes, or rulings that create uncertainty for, or are adverse to, us or the financial services industry; 

&#8226; the potential outcomes of judicial, regulatory, or administrative inquiries, examinations, investigations, proceedings, or disputes to which we are or may be subject, and our ability to absorb and address any damages or other remedies that are sought or awarded, and any collateral consequences; 

&#8226; the performance and availability of third-party service providers on whom we rely in delivering products and services to our customers and otherwise conducting our business and operations; 

&#8226; our ability to manage and mitigate security risks, including our capacity to withstand cyberattacks; 

&#8226; our ability to maintain secure and functional financial, accounting, technology, data processing, or other operating systems or infrastructure; 

&#8226; the adequacy of our corporate governance, risk-management framework, compliance programs, or internal controls over financial reporting, including our ability to control lapses or deficiencies in financial reporting or to effectively mitigate or manage operational risk; 

&#8226; the efficacy of our methods or models in assessing business strategies or opportunities or in valuing, measuring, estimating, monitoring, or managing positions or risk; 

&#8226; our ability to keep pace with changes in technology, such as artificial intelligence, that affect us or our customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors or to maintain rights or interests in associated intellectual property; 

&#8226; our ability to successfully make acquisitions or divestitures or to integrate acquired businesses; 

&#8226; the adequacy of our succession planning for key executives or other personnel and our ability to attract or retain qualified employees; 

&#8226; natural or man-made disasters, calamities, or conflicts, including terrorist events, cyber-warfare, and pandemics; 

&#8226; our ability to maintain appropriate ESG practices, oversight, and disclosures; 

&#8226; policies and other actions of governments to manage and mitigate climate and related environmental risks, and the effects of climate change or the transition to a lower-carbon economy on our business, operations, and reputation; or 

&#8226; other assumptions, risks, or uncertainties described in the Risk Factors (Item 1A), Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7), or the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or described in any of the Company&#8217;s annual, quarterly or current reports. 

Any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf speaks only as of the date that it was made. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of events, circumstances, or results that arise after the date that the statement was made, except as required by applicable securities laws. You, however, should consult further disclosures (including disclosures of a forward-looking nature) that we may make in any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term &#8220;loans&#8221; means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term &#8220;operating leases&#8221; means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle&#8217;s residual value. The terms &#8220;lend,&#8221; &#8220;finance,&#8221; and &#8220;originate&#8221; mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases, as applicable. The term &#8220;consumer&#8221; means all consumer products associated with our 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;commercial&#8221; means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;partnerships&#8221; means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Overview 

Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, we, us, or our) is a financial-services company with the nation&#8217;s largest all-digital bank and an industry-leading automotive financing and insurance business, driven by a mission to &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; and be a relentless ally for customers and communities. The Company serves customers through a full range of online banking services (including deposits, mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending and credit-card products) and securities brokerage and investment advisory services. The Company also includes a corporate finance business that offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Ally is a Delaware corporation and is registered as a BHC under the BHC Act, and an FHC under the GLB Act. 

Our Business 

Dealer Financial Services 

Dealer Financial Services is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance segments. Our primary customers are automotive dealers, which includes OEM-franchised dealers, non-OEM-franchised dealers with a national presence, and automotive retailers, such as Carvana, CarMax, and EchoPark. A dealer may sell or lease a vehicle for cash but, more typically, enters into a retail installment sales contract or operating lease with the customer and then sells the retail installment sales contract or the operating lease and the leased vehicle, as applicable, to Ally or another automotive-finance provider. The purchase by Ally or another provider is commonly described as indirect automotive lending to the customer. 

Our Dealer Financial Services business is one of the largest full-service automotive finance operations in the country and offers a wide range of financial services and insurance products to automotive dealerships and their customers. We have deep dealer relationships that have been built throughout our over 100-year history, and we are leveraging competitive strengths to expand our dealer footprint. Our business model encourages dealers to use our broad range of products through incentive programs like our Ally Dealer Rewards program. Our automotive finance services include purchasing retail installment sales contracts and operating leases from dealers and automotive retailers, extending automotive loans directly to consumers, offering term loans to dealers, financing dealer floorplans and providing other lines of credit to dealers, supplying warehouse lines to automotive retailers, offering automotive-fleet financing, providing financing to companies and municipalities for the purchase or lease of vehicles, and supplying vehicle-remarketing services. We also offer retail VSCs and commercial insurance primarily covering dealers&#8217; vehicle inventories. We are a leading provider of VSCs, GAP, and VMCs. Our dealer-centric business model, value-added products and services, full-spectrum financing, and business expertise proven over many credit cycles, make us a premier automotive finance and insurance company ready to support and strengthen our approximately 22,000 active dealer relationships. A dealer is considered to have an active relationship with us if we provided automotive financing, remarketing, or insurance services during the three months ended December 31, 2023. 

Automotive Finance 

Our Automotive Finance operations provide U.S.-based automotive financing services to consumers, automotive dealers and retailers, other businesses, and municipalities. Our business model, value-added products and services, full-spectrum financing, and business expertise proven over many credit cycles make us a premier automotive finance company. At December 31, 2023, our Automotive Finance operations had $115.4 billion of assets and generated $5.7 billion of total net revenue in 2023. For consumers, we provide financing for new and used vehicles. In addition, our CSG provides automotive financing for small businesses and municipalities. At December 31, 2023, our CSG had $10.2 billion of loans outstanding. Through our commercial automotive financing operations, we fund purchases of new and used vehicles through wholesale floorplan financing. We manage commercial account servicing on approximately 2,700 dealers that utilize our floorplan inventory lending or other commercial loans. We serviced $86.0 billion consumer loan and operating leases at December 31, 2023, and our commercial automotive loan portfolio was approximately $23.3 billion at December 31, 2023. The extensive infrastructure, technology, and analytics of our servicing operations, as well as the experience of our servicing personnel, enhance our ability to manage our loan losses and enable us to deliver a favorable customer experience to both our dealers and retail customers. During 2023, we continued to reposition our origination profile to focus on capital optimization and risk-adjusted returns. In 2023, total consumer automotive originations were $40.0 billion, a decrease of $6.4 billion compared to 2022. The shorter-term duration consumer automotive loan and variable-rate commercial loan portfolios offer attractive asset classes where we continue to optimize risk-adjusted returns through origination mix management and pricing and underwriting discipline. 

Our success as an automotive finance provider is driven by the consistent and broad range of products and services we offer to dealers and automotive retailers. The automotive marketplace is dynamic and evolving, including substantial investments in electrification by automotive manufacturers and suppliers. We continue to identify and cultivate relationships with automotive retailers, including those with leading e-commerce platforms. We also operate an online direct-lending platform for consumers seeking direct financing. We believe these actions will enable us to respond to the growing trends for a more streamlined and digital automotive financing process to serve both dealers and consumers. Furthermore, our strong and expansive dealer relationships, comprehensive suite of products and services, full-spectrum financing, and depth of experience position us to evolve with future shifts in automobile technologies, including electrification. We have provided and continue to provide automobile financing for battery-electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, including brands such as Jeep, Tesla, Ford, and BMW. This positions us to remain a leader in automotive financing as we believe the majority of these vehicles will be sold through dealerships and automotive retailers with whom we have an established relationship. Additionally, we continue to partner and build relationships with automotive manufacturers who use a direct-to-consumer model. During the year ended December 31, 2023, $935 million of our consumer automotive retail loan originations and purchases, and $712 million of our operating lease originations and purchases, were for 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

battery-electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles. As of December 31, 2023, $1.3 billion of our consumer automotive finance receivables and loans had battery-electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles as the underlying collateral, and $969 million of our investment in operating leases were battery-electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles. 

We have focused on developing dealer relationships beyond those relationships that primarily were developed through our previous role as a captive finance company for GM and Stellantis. We have established relationships with thousands of automotive dealers through our customer-centric approach and specialized incentive programs designed to drive loyalty amongst dealers to our products and services. Outside of GM and Stellantis, our other OEM-franchised dealers include brands such as Ford, Toyota, Hyundai, Kia, Nissan, Honda, and others, while our non-OEM-franchised dealers and automotive retailers include used-vehicle-only retailers with a national presence, as well as online-only automotive retailers, such as Carvana, CarMax, and EchoPark. 

Over the past several years, we have continued to focus on the consumer used-vehicle segment, primarily through franchised dealers and automotive retailers. This has resulted in used-vehicle financing volume growth, and has positioned us as an industry leader in used-vehicle financing. The highly fragmented used-vehicle financing market, with a total financing opportunity represented by approximately 289 million vehicles in operation, provides an attractive opportunity that we believe will further expand and support our dealer relationships and increase our risk-adjusted return on retail loan originations. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 71% of our dealer relationships were with franchised dealers. 

During 2023, we continued our focus on meeting the needs of both dealers and consumer customers through expansion of our pass through programs. The pass through program creates financing opportunities for customers in the retail automotive channel, whereby we are able to acquire retail installment sales contracts through an originate-to-sell platform and execute whole-loan sales with third-party investors. At December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, the consumer automotive whole-loan serviced portfolio related to our pass through program was $956 million and $227 million, respectively. 

For consumers, we provide automotive loan financing and leasing for approximately 4.1 million new and used vehicle contracts. Retail financing for the purchase of vehicles by individual consumers generally takes the form of installment sales financing. We originated a total of approximately 1.2 million and 1.3 million automotive loans and operating leases during the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively, totaling $40.0 billion and $46.4 billion. 

Our consumer automotive financing operations generate revenue primarily through finance charges on retail installment sales contracts and rental payments on operating lease contracts. For operating leases, when the contract is originated, we estimate the residual value of the leased vehicle at lease termination. Periodically thereafter we revise the projected residual value of the leased vehicle at lease termination and adjust depreciation expense over the remaining life of the lease, if appropriate. Given the fluctuations in used vehicle values, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the projected residual value, which results in gains or losses on lease termination. While all operating leases are exposed to potential reductions in used vehicle values, only loans where we take possession of the vehicle are affected by potential reductions in used vehicle values. Refer to the Operating Lease Residual Risk Management and Critical Accounting Estimates sections of this MD&#38;A for further discussion of credit risk and lease residual risk. 

We continue to maintain a diverse mix of product offerings across a broad risk spectrum, subject to underwriting policies that reflect our risk appetite. Our current operating results increasingly reflect our ongoing strategy to grow used vehicle financing and expand risk-adjusted returns. While we predominately focus on prime-lending markets, we seek to be a meaningful source of financing to a wide spectrum of customers and continue to carefully measure risk versus return. We place great emphasis on our risk management and risk-based pricing policies and practices and employ robust credit decisioning processes coupled with granular pricing that is differentiated across our proprietary credit tiers. 

Our commercial automotive financing operations primarily fund inventory purchases of new and used vehicles by dealers, commonly referred to as wholesale floorplan financing. This represents the largest portion of our commercial automotive financing business. Wholesale floorplan loans are secured by vehicles financed (and all other vehicle inventory), which provide strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are typically obtained to further mitigate credit risk. The amount we advance to dealers is equal to 100% of the wholesale invoice price of new vehicles, subject to payment curtailment schedules. Interest on wholesale automotive financing is generally payable monthly and is indexed to a floating-rate benchmark. The rate for a particular dealer is based on, among other considerations, competitive factors and the dealer&#8217;s creditworthiness. During 2023, we financed an average of $14.2 billion of dealer vehicle inventory through wholesale floorplan financings. Other commercial automotive lending products, which averaged $6.0 billion during 2023, consist of automotive dealer revolving lines of credit, term loans, including those to finance dealership land and buildings, and dealer fleet financing. We also provide comprehensive automotive remarketing services, including the use of SmartAuction, our online auction platform, which efficiently supports dealer-to-dealer and other commercial wholesale vehicle transactions. SmartAuction provides diversified fee-based revenue and serves as a means of deepening relationships with our dealership customers. In 2023, Ally and other parties, including dealers, fleet rental companies, and financial institutions, utilized SmartAuction to sell approximately 505,000 vehicles to dealers and other commercial customers. SmartAuction served as the remarketing channel for 18% of our off-lease vehicles. 

Insurance 

Our Insurance operations offer both consumer finance protection and insurance products sold primarily through the automotive dealer channel, and commercial insurance products sold directly to dealers. We serve approximately 2.5 million consumers nationwide across F&#38;I 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

and P&#38;C products. In addition, we offer F&#38;I products in Canada, where we serve more than 400 thousand consumers and are the preferred VSC and other protection plan provider for GM Canada and VSC provider for Subaru Canada. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2022, we entered into a long-term commitment to continue as the preferred VSC and other protection plan provider for GM Canada. Our Insurance operations had $9.1 billion of assets at December 31, 2023, and generated $1.5 billion of total net revenue during 2023. As part of our focus on offering dealers a broad range of consumer F&#38;I products, we offer VSCs, VMCs, and GAP products. Ally Premier Protection is our flagship VSC offering, which provides coverage for new and used vehicles of virtually all makes and models. We also underwrite ClearGuard on the SmartAuction platform, which is a protection product designed to minimize the risk to dealers from arbitration claims for eligible vehicles sold at auction. Additionally, we underwrite selected commercial insurance coverages, which primarily insure dealers&#8217; wholesale vehicle inventory, and offer additional products to protect a dealer&#8217;s business, including property and liability coverage that is underwritten by a third-party carrier with a portion of the insurance risk assumed through a quota share agreement. On a smaller scale, we also periodically assume other insurance risks through quota share arrangements and perform services as an underwriting carrier for an insurance program managed by a third-party where we cede the majority of such business to external reinsurance markets. 

From a dealer perspective, Ally provides significant value and expertise, which creates high retention rates and strong relationships. In addition to our product offerings, we provide consultative services and training to assist dealers in optimizing F&#38;I results while achieving high levels of customer satisfaction and regulatory compliance. We also advise dealers regarding necessary liability and physical damage coverages. 

Our F&#38;I products are primarily distributed indirectly through the automotive dealer network. We have established approximately 1,700 F&#38;I dealer relationships nationwide and 600 dealer relationships in Canada, with a focus on growing dealer relationships in the future. Our VSCs for retail customers offer owners and lessees mechanical repair protection and roadside assistance for new and used vehicles beyond the manufacturer&#8217;s new vehicle warranty. We also offer GAP products, which cover certain amounts owed by a customer beyond their covered vehicle&#8217;s value in the event the vehicle is damaged or stolen and declared a total loss. We continue to evolve our product suite and digital capabilities to position our business for future opportunities through growing third-party relationships and sales through our online direct-lending platform. 

We have approximately 3,100 dealer relationships within our P&#38;C business to whom we offer a variety of commercial products and levels of coverage. Vehicle inventory insurance for dealers provides physical damage protection for dealers&#8217; floorplan vehicles. Dealers who receive wholesale financing from us are eligible for insurance incentives such as automatic eligibility for our preferred insurance programs. 

A significant aspect of our Insurance operations is the investment of proceeds from premiums and other revenue sources. We use these investments to satisfy our obligations related to future claims at the time these claims are settled. Our Insurance operations have an Investment Committee, which develops guidelines and strategies for these investments. The guidelines established by this committee reflect our risk appetite, liquidity requirements, regulatory requirements, and rating agency considerations, among other factors. 

Mortgage Finance 

Our Mortgage Finance operations consist of the management of held-for-investment and held-for-sale consumer mortgage loan portfolios. Our held-for-investment portfolio includes our direct-to-consumer Ally Home mortgage offering, and bulk purchases of high-quality jumbo and LMI mortgage loans originated by third parties. Our Mortgage Finance operations had $18.5 billion of assets at December 31, 2023, and generated $227 million of total net revenue in 2023. 

Through our direct-to-consumer channel, we offer a variety of competitively priced jumbo and conforming fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage products through a third-party. Under our current arrangement, our direct-to-consumer conforming mortgages are originated as held-for-sale and sold, while jumbo and LMI mortgages are originated as held-for-investment and subserviced by a third party. Loans originated in the direct-to-consumer channel are sourced by existing Ally customer marketing, prospect marketing on third-party websites, and email or direct mail campaigns. In April 2019, we announced a strategic partnership with BMC, which delivers an enhanced end-to-end digital mortgage experience for our customers through our direct-to-consumer channel. Through this partnership, BMC conducts the sales, processing, underwriting, and closing for Ally&#8217;s digital mortgage offerings in a highly innovative, scalable, and cost-efficient manner, while Ally retains control of all the marketing and advertising strategies and loan pricing. This partnership with BMC limits operational volatility as the mortgage industry continues to evolve in the current interest rate environment. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we originated $1.0 billion of mortgage loans through our direct-to-consumer channel. During 2018, we made a strategic equity investment in the parent of BMC (BMC Holdco) that was subsequently increased in 2019 and 2020. This investment was transferred from nonmarketable equity investments to equity securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet during 2023, as our investment converted into publicly traded common stock in BHF. The carrying value of this investment was $16 million as of December 31, 2023, and is included in Corporate and Other. Refer to the Market Risk section of this MD&#38;A and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Through the bulk loan channel, we purchase loans from several qualified sellers, including direct originators and large aggregators who have the financial capacity to support strong representations and warranties, and the industry knowledge and experience to originate high-quality assets. Bulk purchases are made on a servicing-released basis, allowing us to directly oversee servicing activities and manage refinancing through our direct-to-consumer channel. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we purchased $21 million of mortgage loans that were originated by third parties, primarily to fulfill our CRA objectives. Our mortgage loan purchases are held-for-investment. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The combination of our direct-to-consumer strategy and bulk portfolio purchase program provides the capacity to expand revenue sources and further grow and diversify our finance receivable portfolio with an attractive asset class while also deepening relationships with existing Ally customers. 

Corporate Finance 

Our Corporate Finance operations primarily offer senior-secured loans to private equity sponsor-owned U.S.-based middle-market companies and to facilities managed by well-established asset managers that mostly provide leveraged loans. The portfolio is composed of floating-rate leveraged asset-based and cash flow/enterprise value loans. Our Corporate Finance operations had $11.2 billion of assets at December 31, 2023, and generated $501 million of total net revenue during 2023, and continues to offer attractive returns and diversification benefits to our broader lending portfolio. We believe our growing deposit-based funding model coupled with our expanded product offerings and deep industry relationships provide an advantage over our competition, which includes other banks as well as publicly and privately held finance companies. We have continued to prudently grow our lending portfolio with a focus on a disciplined and selective approach to credit quality, including a greater focus on asset-based loans. As of December 31, 2023, 65% of our loans and 62% of our lending commitments were asset based, with 99.9% in a first-lien position. We seek markets and opportunities where our clients require customized, highly structured, and time-sensitive financing solutions. 

Our Sponsor Finance business focuses on companies owned by private-equity sponsors with loans typically used for leveraged buyouts, refinancing and recapitalizations, mergers and acquisitions, growth, turnarounds, and debtor-in-possession financings. Additionally, our Lender Finance business provides asset managers with facilities to partially fund their direct-lending activities. We also provide a commercial real estate product, currently focused on lending to skilled nursing facilities, senior housing, and medical office buildings. Sponsor Finance loan facilities typically include both a revolver and term loan component. Our target commitment hold level for these individual exposures ranges from $15 million to $150 million, depending on product type. Additionally, hold sizes in our Lender Finance business range from $50 million to $750 million. We also selectively arrange larger transactions that we may retain on-balance sheet or syndicate to other lenders. By syndicating loans to other lenders, we are able to provide financing commitments in excess of our target hold levels to our customers and generate loan syndication fee income while reducing our risk exposure to individual borrowers. All our loans are floating-rate facilities with maturities typically ranging from two to seven years. In certain instances, we may be offered the opportunity to make small equity investments in our borrowers, which provides an additional revenue opportunity for our business. The portfolio is well diversified across multiple industries including financials, services, manufacturing distribution, and other specialty sectors. These specialty sectors include technology/venture finance, and defense and aerospace. Other smaller complementary product offerings that help strengthen our reputation as a full-spectrum provider of financing solutions for borrowers include issuing letters of credit through Ally Bank and selectively offering second-out loans on certain transactions. For additional information regarding industry concentration of our Corporate Finance operations, refer to the Corporate Finance section of this MD&#38;A. 

Corporate and Other 

Overview 

Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities such as management of the cash and corporate investment securities and loan portfolios, short- and long-term debt, retail and brokered deposit liabilities, derivative instruments, original issue discount, and the residual impacts of our corporate FTP and treasury ALM activities. Corporate and Other also includes activity related to certain equity investments, which primarily consist of FHLB and FRB stock, as well as other equity investments through Ally Ventures, our strategic investment business. Additionally, Corporate and Other includes the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, which primarily consists of loans originated prior to January 1, 2009, CRA loans and investments, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Costs that are not allocated to our reportable operating segments as part of our COH methodology, which involves management judgment, are also included in Corporate and Other. 

Ally Invest 

Corporate and Other includes the results of Ally Invest, our digital brokerage and advisory offering, which enables us to complement our competitive deposit products with low-cost investing. The digital advisory business aligns with our strategy to create a premier digital financial services company and provides additional sources of fee income through asset management and certain other fees, with minimal balance sheet utilization. This business also provides an additional source of low-cost deposits through arrangements with Ally Invest&#8217;s clearing broker. 

Ally Invest offers a broad array of products through a fully integrated digital consumer platform centered around self-directed products and advisory services. Ally Invest&#8217;s suite of commission-free and low-cost investing options serve both active and passive investors with diverse and evolving financial objectives through a transparent online process. Our digital platform and broad product offerings are enhanced by outstanding client-focused and user-friendly customer service that is generally accessible twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, via the phone, web or email&#8212;consistent with the Ally brand. 

Ally Invest provides clients with self-directed trading services for a variety of securities including stocks, options, ETFs, mutual funds, and fixed-income products through Ally Invest Securities. Ally Invest Securities also offers margin lending, which allows customers to borrow money by using securities and cash currently held in their accounts as collateral. 

Ally Invest also provides advisory services to clients through web-based solutions, informational resources, and virtual interaction through Ally Invest Advisors, an SEC-registered investment advisor. Ally Invest Advisors provides clients the opportunity to obtain 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

professional portfolio management services in return for a fee based upon the client&#8217;s assets under management. In addition to customized advice from personal advisors, we offer cash enhanced portfolios that incur no management fee, and a number of core robo portfolios, which hold ETFs diversified across asset class, industry sector, and geography and which are customized for clients based on risk tolerance, investment time horizon, and wealth ratio. 

Ally Lending 

Ally Lending is also included within Corporate and Other and primarily serves home improvement and medical service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. The home improvement vertical had originations of $1.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, which represented approximately 71% of originations. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Ally Credit Card 

Financial information related to our credit card business, Ally Credit Card, is included within Corporate and Other. Ally Credit Card is our scalable, digital-first credit card platform that features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe Ally Credit Card enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. As of December 31, 2023, our credit card business had $2.0 billion of finance receivables and loans and approximately 1.2 million customers. 

Corporate Treasury and ALM Activities 

The net financing revenue and other interest income of our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance operations include the results of an FTP process that insulates these operations from interest rate volatility by matching assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity. The FTP process assigns charge rates to the assets and credit rates to the liabilities within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance operations, based on anticipated maturity and a benchmark rate curve plus an assumed credit spread. The assumed credit spread is calculated based on a composite investment grade unsecured bond yield curve or based on advance rates published by the FHLB for any asset that is eligible to be pledged as collateral to the FHLB. While the baseline FTP components at Ally assume 100% debt funding, the framework also incorporates a credit on the allocated capital for each business line. For business lines not subject to an FTP funding allocation, the FTP methodology applies a capital charge to the amount of excess liquidity that the business line holds, relative to its regulatory capital. In addition, capital is managed with the goal of enhancing risk-adjusted returns on shareholders&#8217; equity, while maintaining a strong capital position that is consistent with our risk profile. We allocate capital to business growth opportunities, within an established risk appetite, to support our customers and communities. We seek to pay a competitive dividend and may also distribute excess capital to shareholders through common share repurchases. 

Deposits 

We are focused on growing and retaining a stable deposit base and deepening relationships with our 3.0 million primary deposit customers by leveraging our compelling brand and strong value proposition. Ally Bank is a digital direct bank with no branch network that obtains retail deposits directly from customers. We have grown our deposits with a strong brand that is based on a promise of being straightforward with our customers, and offering high-quality customer service and competitive interest rates. Ally Bank is the largest online only bank as measured by retail deposit balances. Our strong customer acquisition and retention rates reflect the strength of our brand and, together with our overall value proposition, continue to drive growth in retail deposits. At December 31, 2023, Ally Bank had $154.7 billion of total deposits&#8212;including $142.3 billion of retail deposits, which grew $4.6 billion, or 3%, during 2023. Over the past several years, the continued growth of our retail-deposit base has contributed to a more favorable mix of lower cost funding and we continue to focus on efficient deposit growth by continuing to expand the deposit value proposition beyond competitive deposit rates. Our segment results include cost of funds associated with these deposit-product offerings. 

Our deposit products and services are designed to develop long-term customer relationships and capitalize on the shift in consumer preference for direct banking. Our deposits franchise is key to growing and building momentum across our suite of digital offerings at Ally Home, Ally Invest, and Ally Credit Card, consistent with our strategic objective to grow multi-product customers. These products and services appeal to a broad group of customers, many of whom appreciate a streamlined digital experience coupled with our strong value proposition. Ally Bank offers a full spectrum of retail deposit products, including savings accounts, money-market demand accounts, CDs, interest-bearing spending accounts, trust accounts, and IRAs. Our deposit services include Zelle&#174; person-to-person payment services, eCheck remote deposit capture, and mobile banking. Our Smart Savings Tools further demonstrates the ability to deliver innovative digital tools on top of traditional financial products to add incremental value to customers, while also driving increased engagement and loyalty. Nearly 800,000 customers have adopted our Smart Savings Tools. 

We believe we are well-positioned to continue to benefit from the consumer-driven shift from branch banking to direct banking as demonstrated by the growth we have experienced since 2010. We had 3.0 million deposit customers and 6.0 million retail bank accounts as of December 31, 2023, compared to 2.7 million and 5.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2022. Our customer base spans across diverse demographic segmentations and socioeconomic bands. Our direct bank business model resonates particularly well with the millennial generation, which consistently makes up the largest percentage of our new customers. According to a 2023 American Bankers Association survey, 86% of customers prefer to do their banking most often via digital and other direct channels (internet, mobile, telephone, and mail). Furthermore, over the past five years, estimated direct banking deposits as a percentage of the broader retail deposits market increased by approximately 2 percentage points, from 9.5% in 2018 to 11.5% in 2023. We have received a positive response to innovative savings and other deposit products. In April 2023, Forbes again named Ally to its &#8220;World&#8217;s Best Banks&#8221; list followed by The Wall Street Journal&#8217;s 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

BuySide recognition of Ally Bank as the &#8220;Best Online Bank of 2023.&#8221; In October 2023, MONEY&#174; Magazine named Ally to its &#8220;Best Online Bank&#8221; list for the sixth consecutive year, as well as the eleventh time in the past thirteen years. In January 2023, Bankrate named Ally Bank the &#8220;Best Bank Overall.&#8221; Ally Bank&#8217;s competitive direct banking offerings include online and mobile banking features such as electronic bill pay, remote deposit, and electronic funds transfer nationwide, and no minimum balance requirements. 

We intend to continue to grow and invest in our digital direct bank and further capitalize on the shift in consumer preference for direct banking with expanded digital capabilities and customer-centric products that utilize advanced analytics for personalized interactions and other technologies that improve efficiency, security, and the customer&#8217;s connection to the brand. We are focused on growing, deepening, and further leveraging the customer relationships and brand loyalty that exist with Ally Bank as a catalyst for future loan and deposit growth, as well as revenue opportunities that arise from introducing Ally Bank deposit customers to our other suite of product offerings, including Ally Invest. 

Funding and Liquidity 

Our funding strategy targets a stable retail deposit base, supplemented by brokered deposits, public and private secured debt, and public unsecured debt. These diversified funding sources are managed across products, markets, and investors to enhance funding flexibility and stability, resulting in a more cost-effective long-term funding strategy. 

Prudent expansion of asset originations at Ally Bank and continued growth of a stable deposit base continue to be the cornerstone of our long-term liquidity strategy. Our primary funding source is retail deposits, which we believe, at scale, are the most efficient and stable source of funding for us when compared to other funding sources. At December 31, 2023, deposit liabilities totaled $154.7 billion, which reflects an increase of $2.4 billion as compared to December 31, 2022. Deposits as a percentage of total liability-based funding was 88% at both December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. Approximately 92% of retail deposits at Ally Bank, excluding affiliate and intercompany deposits, were FDIC-insured as of December 31, 2023. 

At both December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, 95% of Ally&#8217;s total assets were within Ally Bank. Longer-term unsecured debt is the primary funding source utilized at the parent company. At December 31, 2023, we had $1.5 billion and $2.5 billion of unsecured long-term debt principal maturing in 2024 and 2025, respectively. We have substantially reduced our reliance on market-based funding by continuing to focus on retail deposit funding. 

The strategies outlined above have allowed us to build and maintain a conservative liquidity position. Total available liquidity at December 31, 2023, was $63.5 billion. Absolute levels of liquidity increased during 2023, primarily as a result of increased FRB Discount Window funding capacity. Refer to the section below titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital for a further discussion about liquidity risk management. 

Credit Strategy 

Our strategy and approach to extending credit, as well as our management of credit risk, are critical elements of our business. Credit performance is influenced by several factors including our risk appetite, our credit and underwriting processes, our monitoring and collection efforts, the financial condition of our borrowers, the performance of loan collateral, fiscal and monetary stimulus, and various macroeconomic considerations, including inflation. Our credit strategies are dynamic and are adjusted in response to asset performance, as well as changing macroeconomic conditions and outlook. Most of our businesses offer credit products and services, which drive overall business performance. Consistent with our risk appetite, our business lines operate under prudent credit standards that consider the borrower&#8217;s ability and willingness to repay loans. The failure to effectively manage credit risk can have a direct and significant impact on our earnings, capital position, and reputation. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for a further discussion of credit risk and performance of our consumer and commercial credit portfolios. 

Within our consumer automotive loan portfolio, we serve a mix of consumers across the credit spectrum to achieve portfolio diversification and to optimize the risk and return of our consumer automotive portfolio. This is achieved through the utilization of robust credit decisioning processes coupled with granular pricing that is differentiated across our proprietary credit tiers. While we are a full-spectrum automotive finance lender, the significant majority of our consumer automotive loans are underwritten within the prime-lending segment. We define prime consumer automotive loans primarily as those loans with a FICO&#174; Score at origination of 620 or greater. The carrying value of our held-for-investment, nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses was approximately 10.3% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2023. 

Our Mortgage Finance operations focus on applicants with credit profiles and income streams to support repayments of the loan and operates under credit standards that consider and assess the value of the underlying real estate in accordance with prudent credit practices and regulatory requirements. Refer to the Mortgage Finance section of the MD&#38;A that follows for credit quality information about purchases and originations of consumer mortgages held-for-investment. We generally rely on appraisals conducted by licensed appraisers in conformance with the expectations and requirements of Fannie Mae and federal regulators. When appropriate, we require credit enhancements such as private mortgage insurance. We price each mortgage loan that we originate based on several factors, including the customer&#8217;s FICO&#174; Score, the LTV ratio, and the size of the loan. For bulk purchases, we only purchase loans from sellers with the experience to originate high-quality loans and the financial wherewithal to support their representations and warranties. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Within Ally Lending, our digital provider that offers point-of-sale financing to consumers, we serve a mix of consumers to achieve portfolio diversification and to optimize the risk-adjusted returns of our personal lending portfolio. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. For further information, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Additionally, Ally Credit Card, our scalable, digital-first credit card platform broadens our consumer finance product portfolio. Through Ally Credit Card, we have grown and deepened new and existing customer relationships, and have over 1.2 million active credit cardholders as of December 31, 2023. The majority of our credit card portfolio strategy is targeted towards nonprime borrowers while gradually expanding to a broader credit spectrum. As of December 31, 2023, the amortized cost of our finance receivables related to Ally Credit Card was $2.0 billion, as compared to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2022. 

Within our commercial lending portfolios, our Corporate Finance operations offer senior-secured loans to private equity sponsor-owned U.S.-based middle-market companies and to facilities managed by well-established asset managers that mostly provide leveraged loans. The portfolio is composed of floating-rate leveraged asset-based and cash flow/enterprise value loans. Throughout 2023, we continued to prudently grow this portfolio with a disciplined and selective approach to credit quality, which included a greater focus on asset-based loans. This focus includes significant growth of our lender finance business, which provides senior secured revolving credit to facilities managed by asset managers, collateralized by a portfolio of loans. Within our commercial automotive business, we continue to offer a variety of dealer-centric lending products, including automotive dealer revolving lines of credit, term loans, including those to finance dealership land and buildings, acquisitions, and dealer fleet financing. These commercial automotive products are an important aspect of our dealer relationships and offer a secured lending arrangement with strong collateral protections in the event of dealer default. The performance of our commercial credit portfolios continues to remain strong. Commercial nonperforming finance receivables and loans decreased $43 million from December 31, 2022, to $119 million at December 31, 2023. Our total net charge-offs within our commercial lending portfolio increased to $124 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Refer to the Risk Management section of the MD&#38;A for further details. 

Discontinued Operations 

During 2013 and 2012, certain disposal groups met the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations. The remaining activity relates to previous discontinued operations for which we continue to record income taxes, net of valuation allowances, as well as wind-down, legal, and minimal operational costs. For all periods presented, the operating results for these operations have been removed from continuing operations. The MD&#38;A has been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Primary Business Lines 

Dealer Financial Services, which includes our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance are our primary business lines. The remaining activity is reported in Corporate and Other, which primarily consists of centralized treasury activities as well as Ally Invest, our digital brokerage and personal advice offering, Ally Lending, our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Credit Card, CRA loans and investments, and certain strategic investments. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. For further information, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes the operating results excluding discontinued operations of each business line. Operating results for each of the business lines are more fully described in the MD&#38;A sections that follow. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023&#8211;2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022 &#8211; 2021 % change 

Total net revenue 

Dealer Financial Services 

Automotive Finance 

$ 5,682 &#160; $ 5,530 $ 5,460 3 1 Insurance 

1,545 &#160; 1,112 1,404 39 (21) Mortgage Finance 

227 &#160; 248 218 (8) 14 Corporate Finance 501 &#160; 456 436 10 5 Corporate and Other 

259 &#160; 1,082 688 (76) 57 

Total 

$ 8,214 &#160; $ 8,428 $ 8,206 (3) 3 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense Dealer Financial Services 

Automotive Finance 

$ 1,614 &#160; $ 2,250 $ 3,384 (28) (34) Insurance 

213 &#160; (38) 343 n/m (111) Mortgage Finance 

92 &#160; 55 32 67 72 Corporate Finance 307 &#160; 282 282 9 &#8212; Corporate and Other 

(1,143) (207) (186) n/m (11) 

Total 

$ 1,083 &#160; $ 2,342 $ 3,855 (54) (39) ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Consolidated Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results for the periods shown. Refer to the reportable operating segment sections of the MD&#38;A that follows for a more complete discussion of operating results by business line. For a discussion of our fiscal 2022 results compared to fiscal 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022&#8211;2021 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Total financing revenue and other interest income $ 13,958 &#160; $ 10,621 $ 8,651 31 23 Total interest expense 6,897 &#160; 2,857 1,914 (141) (49) Net depreciation expense on operating lease assets 860 &#160; 914 570 6 (60) Net financing revenue and other interest income 6,201 &#160; 6,850 6,167 (9) 11 Other revenue Insurance premiums and service revenue earned 1,271 &#160; 1,151 1,117 10 3 Gain on mortgage and automotive loans, net 16 &#160; 52 87 (69) (40) Loss on extinguishment of debt &#8212; &#160; &#8212; (136) &#8212; 100 Other gain (loss) on investments, net 144 &#160; (120) 285 n/m (142) Other income, net of losses 582 &#160; 495 686 18 (28) Total other revenue 2,013 &#160; 1,578 2,039 28 (23) Total net revenue 8,214 &#160; 8,428 8,206 (3) 3 Provision for credit losses 1,968 &#160; 1,399 241 (41) n/m Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 1,901 &#160; 1,900 1,643 &#8212; (16) Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses 422 &#160; 280 261 (51) (7) Goodwill impairment 149 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; n/m &#8212; Other operating expenses 2,691 &#160; 2,507 2,206 (7) (14) Total noninterest expense 5,163 &#160; 4,687 4,110 (10) (14) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,083 &#160; 2,342 3,855 (54) (39) Income tax expense from continuing operations 61 &#160; 627 790 90 21 Net income from continuing operations $ 1,022 &#160; $ 1,715 $ 3,065 (40) (44) Financial ratios: Return on average assets (a) 0.53 &#160; % 0.93 % 1.70 % n/m n/m Return on average equity (a) 7.52 &#160; % 11.91 % 18.31 % n/m n/m Equity to assets (a) 6.98 &#160; % 7.77 % 9.26 % n/m n/m Common dividend payout ratio (b) 40.00 &#160; % 23.72 % 10.63 % n/m n/m ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) The ratios were based on average assets and average total equity using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) The common dividend payout ratio was calculated using basic earnings per common share. 

2023 Compared to 2022 

We earned net income from continuing operations of $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, results were favorably impacted by higher total financing revenue and other interest income, a decrease in income tax expense from continuing operations, and an increase in other gain on investments, net. These items were more than offset by higher interest expense, provision for credit losses, and noninterest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income decreased $649 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Consumer automotive revenue increased as higher portfolio yields resulting from pricing actions taken in response to rising benchmark interest rates contributed to the increase in revenue. The increase was also impacted by higher average consumer assets resulting from growth in the used-vehicle portfolio, primarily through franchised dealers and national retailers. Commercial automotive 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

revenue increased due to higher yields from higher benchmark interest rates, as our commercial automotive loans are generally variable-rate. The increase was also impacted by higher asset balances resulting from improvements in new vehicle supply. Additionally, revenue increased due to the impacts of a higher interest rate environment on the investment securities portfolio and hedging activities, and higher interest associated with cash and cash equivalents and growth within unsecured lending. The increase was more than offset by higher interest expense. We experienced higher interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022, in response to higher benchmark interest rates, which increased our cost of funds associated with our deposit liabilities. 

Insurance premiums and service revenue earned was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher P&#38;C earned premium from higher dealer inventory levels, growth in other dealer-related protection products, and higher other premium and service revenue written from non-automotive assumed reinsurance business. 

Other gain on investments, net, was $144 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to other loss on investments, net of $120 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022, was primarily attributable to the performance of equity securities, consistent with broader stock market performance. The increase was partially offset by realized gains from the sale of available-for-sale securities and equity securities during the year ended December 31, 2022, that did not reoccur. 

Other income, net of losses increased $87 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. The increase was primarily driven by net downward adjustments of $9 million related to equity securities without a readily determinable fair value for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to net downward adjustments (including impairment) of $137 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. Additionally, the increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was driven by increased late charges and other administrative fees, as delinquencies have increased amid deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, driven by persistent inflation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we observed a slowing rate of increase in delinquency trends within our consumer automotive loan portfolio, as compared to 2022, as we continue to make adjustments to our underwriting strategies. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in income from equity-method investments. 

The provision for credit losses increased $569 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher net charge-offs across our consumer portfolios. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Noninterest expense was $5.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $4.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was driven by increased expenses to support the growth of our consumer product suite and expand our digital capabilities and portfolio of products, and we incurred higher collection and repossession costs. Additionally, insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022, primarily due to increased losses from our vehicle inventory insurance program attributable to higher weather frequency and severity, growing dealer inventory levels, and higher insured values for non-weather losses. The increase was also driven by a goodwill impairment charge related to the commitment to sell Ally Lending during the year ended December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

We recognized total income tax expense from continuing operations of $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to income tax expense of $627 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022, was primarily due to the tax effects of a decrease in pretax earnings, adjustments to the valuation allowance on foreign tax credit carryforwards, and an increase in qualified clean vehicle tax credits for purchased plug-in electric vehicles or fuel cell vehicles. Refer to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Dealer Financial Services 

Results for Dealer Financial Services are presented by reportable operating segment, which includes our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations. 

Automotive Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the operating results of our Automotive Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our other reportable operating segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022&#8211;2021 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Consumer $ 6,772 &#160; $ 5,680 $ 5,198 19 9 Commercial 1,392 &#160; 712 514 96 39 Loans held-for-sale 7 &#160; 2 &#8212; n/m n/m Operating leases 1,550 &#160; 1,596 1,550 (3) 3 Total financing revenue and other interest income 

9,721 &#160; 7,990 7,262 22 10 Interest expense 3,500 &#160; 1,852 1,483 (89) (25) Net depreciation expense on operating lease assets (a) 860 &#160; 914 570 6 (60) Net financing revenue and other interest income 5,361 &#160; 5,224 5,209 3 &#8212; Other revenue Gain on automotive loans, net &#8212; &#160; 26 &#8212; (100) n/m Other income, net of losses 321 &#160; 280 251 15 12 Total other revenue 321 &#160; 306 251 5 22 Total net revenue 5,682 &#160; 5,530 5,460 3 1 Provision for credit losses 1,618 &#160; 1,036 53 (56) n/m Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 668 &#160; 629 571 (6) (10) Other operating expenses 1,782 &#160; 1,615 1,452 (10) (11) Total noninterest expense 2,450 &#160; 2,244 2,023 (9) (11) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense $ 1,614 &#160; $ 2,250 $ 3,384 (28) (34) Total assets $ 115,387 &#160; $ 111,463 $ 103,653 4 8 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Includes net remarketing gains of $211 million, $170 million, and $344 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

2023 Compared to 2022 

Our Automotive Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease was primarily due to higher interest expense and higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher financing revenue and other interest income. 

Consumer automotive loan financing revenue and other interest income increased $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. Higher portfolio yields resulting from pricing actions taken in response to rising benchmark interest rates contributed to the increase in revenue. The increase was also impacted by higher average consumer assets resulting from growth in the used-vehicle portfolio, primarily through franchised dealers and national retailers. 

Commercial loan financing revenue and other interest income increased $680 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher yields from higher benchmark interest rates, as our commercial automotive loans are generally variable-rate. The increase was also impacted by higher asset balances resulting from improvements in new vehicle supply. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Interest expense was $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by a higher interest rate environment, resulting in higher funding costs. 

Total net operating lease revenue increased $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. The increase in net operating lease revenue was driven by higher remarketing gains on off-lease vehicles, primarily due to normalizing volume trends in the contractually priced buyout channels. Refer to the Operating Lease Residual Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion. 

Total other revenue increased $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in servicing fees, late charges, and remarketing fee income. The increase in servicing fees was due to the growth in financial assets transferred to a nonconsolidated SPE for which we retain the ongoing right to service the assets. The increase in late charges was due to higher delinquencies amid deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, driven by persistent inflation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we observed a slowing rate of increase in delinquency trends within our consumer automotive loan portfolio, as compared to 2022, as we continue to make adjustments to our underwriting strategies. The increase in remarketing fee income was primarily due to an increase in remarketing transaction volume through our SmartAuction platform. Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding assets sold to nonconsolidated SPEs. 

The provision for credit losses increased $582 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in provision for credit losses was primarily driven by higher net charge-offs during the year ended December 31, 2023. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Total noninterest expense increased $206 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. The increase was primarily due to expenses to support the growth of our consumer product suite and expand our digital capabilities and portfolio of products. Additionally, we incurred higher collection and repossession costs during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022. 

The following table presents the average balance and yield of the loan and operating lease portfolios of our Automotive Financing operations. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 2021 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Yield Average balance (a) Yield Average balance (a) Yield Finance receivables and loans, net (b) 

Consumer automotive (c) 

$ 84,769 &#160; 7.99 &#160; % $ 81,499 6.97 % $ 75,569 6.88 % Commercial 

Wholesale floorplan (d) 14,223 &#160; 7.60 &#160; 11,418 4.30 11,183 2.61 Other commercial automotive (e) 5,961 &#160; 5.20 &#160; 5,044 4.38 5,273 4.21 Investment in operating leases, net (f) 9,941 &#160; 6.93 &#160; 10,656 6.41 10,518 9.32 ##TABLE_END

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) Nonperforming finance receivables and loans are included in the average balances. For information on our accounting policies regarding nonperforming status, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(c) Excludes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges, which is included within Corporate and Other. Including the impact of hedging activities, the yield was 8.79%, 7.19%, and 6.65% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

(d) Excludes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges, which is included within Corporate and Other. Including the impact of hedging activities, the yield was 7.70%, 4.49%, and 3.17% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

(e) Consists primarily of automotive dealer term loans, including those to finance dealership land and buildings, and dealer fleet financing. 

(f) Yield includes net gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles of $211 million, $170 million, and $344 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Excluding these gains on sale, the yield was 4.81% for both the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, and 6.05% for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, our portfolio yield for consumer automotive loans, excluding the impact of hedging activities, increased 102 basis points, as compared to 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher portfolio yields resulting from pricing actions. We continued to opportunistically adjust pricing in response to rising benchmark interest rates during 2023. Our portfolio yield for consumer automotive loans, including the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges, was 80 basis points higher than our portfolio yield for consumer automotive loans excluding the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges for the year ended December 31, 2023. This is attributable to the execution of hedging strategies that are used to mitigate interest rate risks. The effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are included within Corporate and Other. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Our portfolio yield for investment in operating leases, net, including net gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles, was 6.93% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 6.41% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was due to higher remarketing gains on off-lease vehicles. Refer to the section titled Operating Lease Residual Risk Management within this MD&#38;A for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Automotive Financing Volume 

Our Automotive Finance operations provide automotive financing services to consumers and automotive dealers and retailers. For consumers, we provide retail financing and leasing for new and used vehicles, and through our commercial automotive financing operations, we fund dealer purchases of new and used vehicles through wholesale floorplan financing and provide dealer term and revolving loans and automotive fleet financing. 

Acquisition and Underwriting 

Our consumer underwriting process is focused on multidimensional risk factors and data driven risk-adjusted probabilities that are continuously monitored and routinely updated. Each application is placed into an analytical category based on specific aspects of the applicant&#8217;s credit profile and loan structure. We then evaluate the application by applying a proprietary credit scoring algorithm tailored to its applicable category. Inputs into this algorithm include, but are not limited to, proprietary scores and deal structure variables such as LTV, new or used vehicle collateral, and term of financing. The output of the algorithm is used to sort applications into various credit tiers (S, A, B, C, D, and E). Credit tiers help determine our primary indication of credit quality and pricing, and are also communicated to the dealer that submitted the application. This process is built on long established credit risk fundamentals to determine both the applicant&#8217;s ability and willingness to repay. While advances in excess of 100% of the vehicle collateral value at loan origination&#8212;notwithstanding cash down and vehicle trade in value&#8212;are typical in the industry (primarily due to additional costs such as mechanical warranty contracts, taxes, license, and title fees), our pricing, risk, and underwriting processes are rooted in statistical analysis to manage this risk. 

Our underwriting process uses a combination of automated strategies and manual evaluation by an experienced team of dedicated underwriters. Continued advancements in our data-driven risk assessment process have allowed us to methodically increase our use of automated credit decisioning in recent years. This increase in automated decisioning has enhanced the buying experience for our dealer and consumer customers through improved response times, and more consistent credit decisions. Underwriting is also governed by our credit policies, which set forth guidelines such as acceptable transaction parameters and verification requirements. For higher-risk approved transactions, these guidelines require verification of details such as applicant income and employment through documentation provided by the applicant or other data sources. We continue to monitor loss performance across the risk spectrum, which enables us to implement risk mitigation strategies, including pricing increments and curtailment actions on underperforming microsegments. 

Underwriters have a limited ability to approve exceptions to the guidelines in our credit policies. For example, an exception may be approved to allow a term or a ratio of payment-to-income, debt-to-income, or LTV greater than that in the guidelines. Exceptions must be approved by underwriters with appropriate approval authority and generally are based on compensating factors. We monitor exceptions with the goal of limiting them to a small portion of approved applications and originated loans, and rarely permit more than a single exception to avoid layered risk. 

Consumer Automotive Financing 

New- and used-vehicle consumer financing through dealerships takes one of two forms: retail installment sales contracts (retail contracts) and operating lease contracts. We purchase retail contracts for new and used vehicles and operating lease contracts from dealers after those contracts are executed by the dealers and the consumers. Our consumer automotive financing operations generate revenue primarily through finance charges on retail contracts and rental payments on operating lease contracts. In connection with operating lease contracts, we recognize depreciation expense on the vehicle over the operating lease contract period and we may also recognize a gain or loss on the remarketing of the vehicle at the end of the lease. 

The amount we pay a dealer for a retail contract is based on the rate of finance charge agreed by the dealer and customer, the negotiated purchase price of the vehicle, any other products such as service contracts, less any vehicle trade-in value, any down payment from the consumer, and any available automotive manufacturer incentives. Under the retail contract, the consumer is obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the purchase price of the vehicle (less any trade-in or down payment) plus finance charges at a rate negotiated between the consumer and the dealer. In addition, the consumer is responsible for charges related to past-due payments. Consistent with industry practice, when we purchase the retail contract, we pay the dealer at a rate discounted below the rate agreed by the dealer and the consumer (generally described in the industry as the &#8220;buy rate&#8221;). Our agreements with dealers limit the amount of the discount that we will accept. Although we do not own the vehicles that we finance through retail contracts, our agreements require that we hold a perfected security interest in those vehicles. 

We set our buy rates using a granular, risk-based methodology factoring in several variables including interest costs, projected net average annualized loss rates at the time of origination, anticipated operating costs, and targeted return on equity. Our underwriting capabilities allow us to manage our risk tolerance levels to quickly react to major changes in the economy. Over the past several years, we have continued to focus on optimizing pricing relative to market interest rates as well as portfolio diversification and the used-vehicle segment, primarily through franchised dealers and automotive retailers, which has contributed to higher yields on our consumer automotive loan portfolio. Commensurate with this shift in origination mix, we continue to maintain disciplined underwriting within our new- and used- consumer automotive loan originations. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

With respect to consumer leasing, we purchase operating lease contracts and the associated vehicles from dealerships after those contracts are executed by the dealers and the consumers. The amount we pay a dealer for an operating lease contract is based on the negotiated price for the vehicle, less any vehicle trade-in, any down payment from the consumer, and any available automotive manufacturer incentives. Under an operating lease, the consumer is obligated to make payments in amounts equal to the amount by which the negotiated purchase price of the vehicle (less any trade-in value, down payment, or any available manufacturer incentives) exceeds the contract residual value (including residual support) of the vehicle at lease termination, plus operating lease rental charges. The consumer is also generally responsible for charges related to past-due payments, excess mileage, excessive wear and tear, and certain disposal fees where applicable. At contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as vehicle age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. 

Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on then-current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense, if appropriate, over the remaining life of the contract. Upon termination of the lease, lessees generally have the ability to exercise a purchase option at the stated contractual amount. If the lessee declines to exercise the purchase option, the dealer then has the ability to buy out the vehicle. If neither the lessee or dealer completes the buyout, the vehicle is returned to us and we remarket the vehicle. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. 

Our standard consumer operating lease contract, SmartLease, requires a monthly payment by the consumer. We also offer an alternative leasing plan, SmartLease Plus, which requires one up-front payment of all operating lease amounts at the time the consumer takes possession of the vehicle. 

Our standard consumer lease contracts are operating leases; therefore, credit losses on the operating lease portfolio are not as significant as losses on retail contracts because lease credit losses are primarily limited to past-due payments and assessed fees. Since some of these fees are not assessed until the vehicle is returned, these losses on the operating lease portfolio are correlated with lease termination volume. Operating lease accounts over 30 days past due represented 1.4% and 1.1% of the portfolio at December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. 

With respect to all financed vehicles, whether subject to a retail contract or an operating lease contract, we require that property damage insurance be obtained by the consumer. In addition, for operating lease contracts, we require that bodily injury, collision, and comprehensive insurance be obtained by the consumer. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents retail loan originations and purchases by credit tier and product type. ##TABLE_START Used retail New retail Credit Tier (a) Volume 

($ in billions) 

% Share of volume Average FICO&#174; Volume 

($ in billions) 

% Share of volume Average FICO&#174; 

Year ended December 31, 2023 

S $ 9.1 &#160; 35 &#160; 754 &#160; $ 5.3 &#160; 47 &#160; 751 &#160; A 11.1 &#160; 43 &#160; 688 &#160; 4.9 &#160; 43 &#160; 687 &#160; B 3.8 &#160; 15 &#160; 644 &#160; 1.0 &#160; 9 &#160; 654 &#160; C 1.1 &#160; 4 &#160; 599 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 1 &#160; 623 &#160; D 0.5 &#160; 2 &#160; 560 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 571 &#160; E 0.2 &#160; 1 &#160; 548 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 552 &#160; Total retail loan originations $ 25.8 &#160; 100 &#160; 697 &#160; $ 11.3 &#160; 100 &#160; 710 &#160; 

Year ended December 31, 2022 

S $ 6.7 22 743 $ 4.4 35 746 A 15.0 50 686 6.7 53 686 B 6.2 21 648 1.4 11 654 C 1.5 4 611 0.1 1 629 D 0.5 2 569 &#8212; &#8212; 604 E 0.2 1 553 &#8212; &#8212; 541 Total retail loan originations $ 30.1 100 684 $ 12.6 100 700 

Year ended December 31, 2021 

S $ 5.4 19 736 $ 4.4 34 740 A 13.8 50 682 6.7 50 681 B 6.8 25 648 1.9 15 650 C 1.3 5 610 0.1 1 616 D 0.3 1 563 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; 585 E 0.1 &#8212; 545 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; 564 Total retail loan originations $ 27.7 100 679 $ 13.1 100 693 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents Ally&#8217;s internal credit score, incorporating numerous borrower and structure attributes including: severity and aging of delinquency; number of credit inquiries; LTV ratio; term; payment-to-income ratio; and debt-to-income ratio. We periodically update our underwriting scorecard, which can have an impact on our credit tier scoring. 

The following table presents the percentage of total retail loan originations and purchases, in dollars, by the loan term in months. 

##TABLE_START Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 0&#8211;71 14 &#160; % 14 % 15 % 72&#8211;75 63 &#160; 64 66 76 + 23 &#160; 22 19 Total retail loan originations 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

Retail loan originations with a term of 76 months or more represented 23% of total retail loan originations for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 22% for the year ended December 31, 2022. Substantially all the loans originated with a term of 76 months or more during both the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, were considered to be prime and in credit tiers S, A, or B. Our underwriting processes are designed to consider various deal structure variables&#8212;such as payment-to-income, LTV, debt-to-income, and FICO&#174; score&#8212;that compensate for longer loan terms and mitigate underwriting risk. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately 83% of our used retail loan originations were for vehicles with a model year of 2017 or newer. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, the average age of light vehicles in operation in the United States during 2022 was approximately 12 years. Substantially all used retail loan originations with a term of 76 months or more during the year ended December 31, 2023, were for vehicles with a model year of 2017 or newer. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the percentage of total outstanding retail loans by origination year. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Pre-2019 3 &#160; % 7 % 17 % 2019 4 &#160; 8 15 2020 8 &#160; 13 22 2021 18 &#160; 28 46 2022 29 &#160; 44 &#8212; 2023 38 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; Total retail 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

The following tables present the total retail loan and operating lease origination and purchase dollars and percentage mix by product type and by channel. 

##TABLE_START Consumer automotive financing originations % Share of Ally originations 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 Used retail $ 25,813 &#160; $ 30,107 $ 27,743 65 &#160; 65 60 New retail 11,310 &#160; 12,579 13,141 28 &#160; 27 28 Lease 2,858 &#160; 3,665 5,369 7 &#160; 8 12 Total consumer automotive financing originations (a) $ 39,981 &#160; $ 46,351 $ 46,253 100 &#160; 100 100 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes CSG originations of $5.0 billion, $5.7 billion, and $4.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

##TABLE_START Consumer automotive financing originations % Share of Ally originations 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 GM dealers $ 9,017 &#160; $ 10,025 $ 9,584 23 &#160; 22 21 Stellantis dealers 8,281 &#160; 10,396 11,989 20 &#160; 22 26 Other dealers and automotive retailers OEM-franchised dealers 13,177 &#160; 15,864 16,258 33 &#160; 34 35 Non-OEM-franchised dealers and automotive retailers 9,506 &#160; 10,066 8,422 24 &#160; 22 18 Total other dealers and automotive retailers 22,683 &#160; 25,930 24,680 57 &#160; 56 53 Total consumer automotive financing originations $ 39,981 &#160; $ 46,351 $ 46,253 100 &#160; 100 100 ##TABLE_END

Total consumer automotive loan and operating lease originations decreased $6.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by our dynamic underwriting strategies, including strategic pricing and curtailment actions to optimize our risk appetite and returns. 

We have included origination metrics by loan term and FICO&#174; Score within this MD&#38;A. In addition, we employ our own risk evaluation, including proprietary risk models, in evaluating credit risk, as described in the section above titled Automotive Financing Volume&#8212;Acquisition and Underwriting . 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the percentage of retail loan and operating lease originations and purchases, in dollars, by FICO&#174; Score and product type. We define prime consumer automotive loans primarily as those loans with a FICO&#174; Score at origination of 620 or greater. 

##TABLE_START Year ended December 31, 2023 Used retail New retail Lease 760 + 21 &#160; % 20 &#160; % 48 &#160; % 720&#8211;759 14 &#160; 13 &#160; 17 &#160; 660&#8211;719 30 &#160; 29 &#160; 22 &#160; 620&#8211;659 19 &#160; 18 &#160; 9 &#160; 540&#8211;619 9 &#160; 3 &#160; 2 &#160; &#60; 540 3 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Unscored (a) 4 &#160; 17 &#160; 2 &#160; Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % Year ended December 31, 2022 760 + 14 % 15 % 47 % 720&#8211;759 12 12 18 660&#8211;719 33 33 23 620&#8211;659 24 21 8 540&#8211;619 10 3 2 &#60; 540 2 &#8212; &#8212; Unscored (a) 5 16 2 Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 % 100 % 100 % Year ended December 31, 2021 760 + 11 % 14 % 43 % 720&#8211;759 12 11 20 660&#8211;719 34 33 24 620&#8211;659 27 24 10 540&#8211;619 11 5 2 &#60; 540 2 &#8212; &#8212; Unscored (a) 3 13 1 Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Unscored are primarily CSG contracts with business entities that have no FICO&#174; Score. 

Originations with a FICO&#174; Score of less than 620 (considered nonprime) represented 9% of total consumer loan and operating lease originations for each of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021. Consumer loans and operating leases with FICO&#174; Scores of less than 540 represented 2% of total originations for the year ended December 31, 2023, and 1% of total originations for both the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021. Nonprime applications are subject to more stringent underwriting criteria (for example, minimum payment-to-income ratio, maximum debt-to-income ratio, and maximum amount financed), and our nonprime loan portfolio generally does not include any loans with a term of 76 months or more. The carrying value of our held-for-investment, nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses was $8.7 billion and $8.8 billion at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, or approximately 10.3% and 10.6% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. For discussion of our credit-risk-management practices and performance, refer to the section titled Risk Management . 

During the first quarter of 2024, we amended our relationship with Carvana, a leading e-commerce platform for buying and selling used vehicles. Specifically, we maintained our committed facility at a maximum of $4.0 billion to support our continued efforts to optimize risk-adjusted returns. This commitment is effective for 364 days. As part of the agreement, we continue to purchase finance receivables on a periodic basis within prescribed eligibility requirements and risk appetite, consistent with purchase practices in prior years. All the finance receivables purchased through this channel are used vehicles, and are included in non-OEM-franchised dealers and automotive retailers in our consumer origination metrics. While different vintages exhibit varying performance, collectively to date, finance receivables purchased from Carvana have exhibited consistent delinquency and loss performance compared to loans with similar credit characteristics acquired through our indirect dealer channel. Consumer finance receivables and loans sourced from Carvana represented 8.2% of our total consumer automotive finance receivables and loans as of December 31, 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2023, loan purchases from Carvana were 9% of our total consumer automotive financing originations. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Manufacturer Marketing Incentives 

Automotive manufacturers may elect to sponsor incentive programs on retail contracts and operating leases by subsidizing finance rates below market rates. These marketing incentives are also referred to as rate support or subvention. When an automotive manufacturer subsidizes the finance rate, we are compensated at contract inception for the present value of the difference between the manufacturer-supported customer rate and our standard rate. For a retail contract, we defer and recognize this amount as a yield adjustment over the life of the contract. For an operating lease contract, this payment reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. 

Automotive manufacturers may also elect to sponsor incentives, referred to as residual support, on operating leases. When an automotive manufacturer provides residual support, we receive payment at contract inception that increases the contractual operating lease residual value resulting in a lower operating lease payment from the customer. The payment received from the automotive manufacturer reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. Other operating lease incentive programs sponsored by automotive manufacturers may be made at contract inception indirectly through dealers, which also reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. 

Under what the automotive finance industry refers to as &#8220;pull-ahead programs,&#8221; consumers may be encouraged by the manufacturer to terminate operating leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new vehicle. As part of these programs, we may waive all or a portion of the customer&#8217;s remaining payment obligation. Under most programs, the automotive manufacturer compensates us for a portion of the foregone revenue from the waived payments. This compensation may be partially offset to the extent that our remarketing sales proceeds are higher than otherwise would be realized if the vehicle had been remarketed upon contract maturity. 

Servicing 

We have historically serviced all retail contracts and operating leases we originated, including a small amount of retail contracts originated as held-for-sale. On occasion, we have sold a portion of the retail contracts we originated through whole-loan sales and securitizations, but generally retained the right to service and earn a servicing fee for our servicing functions. As of December 31, 2023, we serviced 91% of our consumer automotive loan portfolio. 

Servicing activities consist largely of collecting and processing customer payments, responding to customer concerns and inquiries, processing customer requests (including those for payoff quotes, total-loss handling, and payment modifications), maintaining a perfected security interest in the financed vehicle, engaging in collections activity, and disposing of off-lease and repossessed vehicles. Servicing activities are generally consistent across our Automotive Finance operations; however, certain practices may be influenced by state laws. 

Our customers have the option to receive monthly billing statements and remit payment by mail or through electronic fund transfers, or to establish online web-based account administration through Ally Auto Online Services. Customer payments are processed by regional third-party processing centers that electronically transfer payment information to customers&#8217; accounts. 

Collections activity includes initiating contact with customers who fail to comply with the terms of the retail contract or operating lease agreement by sending reminder notices or contacting customers via various channels when an account becomes 3 to 7 days past due. The type of collection treatment and level of intensity increases as the account becomes more delinquent. The nature and timing of these activities depend on the repayment risk of the account. 

During the collections process, we may offer a payment extension to a customer experiencing temporary financial difficulty. A payment extension enables the customer to delay monthly payments for 30, 60, or 90 days. Extensions granted to a customer typically do not exceed 90 days in the aggregate during any 12-month period or 180 days in aggregate over the life of the contract. During the extension period, finance charges continue to accrue. If the customer&#8217;s financial difficulty is not temporary but we believe the customer is willing and able to repay their loan at a lower payment amount, we may offer to modify the remaining obligation through a rewrite, extending the term and lowering the interest rate. In the event of a rewrite, the outstanding balance generally remains unchanged. The use of extensions and other modifications help us mitigate financial loss. Extensions may assist in cases where we believe the customer will recover from short-term financial difficulty and resume regularly scheduled payments. Modifications may also be utilized in cases where we believe customers can fulfill the obligation with lower payments over a longer period. Before offering an extension or modification, we evaluate and take into account the capacity of the customer to meet the revised payment terms. We generally do not consider extensions that fall within our policy guidelines to represent more than an insignificant delay in payment, and therefore, they are not considered loan modifications for reporting purposes. Although the granting of an extension could delay the eventual charge-off of an account, typically we are able to repossess and sell the related collateral, thereby mitigating the loss. At both December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, 14.8% of the total amount outstanding in the servicing portfolio had been granted an extension or was rewritten. 

Subject to legal considerations, we generally begin repossession activity once an account is at least 90 days past due. Repossession may occur earlier if we determine the customer is unwilling to pay, the vehicle is in danger of being damaged or hidden, or the customer voluntarily surrenders the vehicle. We assign accounts to approved third-party repossession vendors, who handle the repossession activity on our behalf. Any disruptions in the repossession process could impact our ability to timely or successfully repossess the vehicle. Generally, after repossession, the customer is given a period of time to redeem the vehicle or reinstate the contract by paying off the account or bringing the account current, respectively. If the vehicle is not redeemed or the contract is not reinstated, the vehicle is sold at auction. Generally, the proceeds do not cover the unpaid balance, including unpaid earned finance charges and allowable expenses, and the resulting deficiency is charged-off. Asset recovery centers pursue collections on accounts that have been charged-off, including those accounts where the vehicle was repossessed, and skip accounts where the vehicle cannot be located. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Our total consumer automotive loan and lease serviced portfolio was $88.5 billion and $87.6 billion at December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively, compared to our on-balance sheet consumer automotive loan and lease serviced portfolio of $86.0 billion and $87.4 billion. 

Remarketing and Sales of Leased Vehicles 

When we acquire an operating lease, we assume ownership of the vehicle from the dealer. Neither the consumer nor the dealer is responsible for the value of the vehicle at the time of lease termination. When vehicles are not purchased by customers or the receiving dealer at scheduled lease termination, the vehicle is returned to us for remarketing. We generally bear the risk of loss to the extent the value of a leased vehicle upon remarketing is below the expected residual value. Conversely, we may recognize a remarketing gain when the proceeds from a returned vehicle are greater than the expected residual value. Our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and the proceeds realized from vehicle sales. Our methods of vehicle sales at lease termination primarily include the following: 

&#8226; Sale to lessee &#8212; The lessee has the first opportunity to purchase the off-lease vehicle at the end of the lease term for the price stated in the lease agreement, which equals the contract residual value determined at origination. 

&#8226; Sale to dealer &#8212; After the lessee declines an option to purchase the off-lease vehicle, the dealer who accepts it has the opportunity to purchase it directly from us at a price we define. 

&#8226; Internet auctions &#8212; Once the lessee and the dealer decline to purchase the off-lease vehicle, we offer it to dealers and other third parties through our proprietary internet site (SmartAuction). Through SmartAuction, we seek to maximize the net sales proceeds from an off-lease vehicle by reducing the time between vehicle return and ultimate disposition, reducing holding costs, and broadening the number of prospective buyers. We use SmartAuction for our own vehicles and make it available for third-party use. We earn a service fee for every third-party vehicle sold through SmartAuction, which includes the cost of ClearGuard coverage, our protection product designed to assist in minimizing the risk to dealers of arbitration claims for eligible vehicles. In 2023, approximately 505,000 vehicles were sold through SmartAuction, as compared to approximately 336,000 in 2022. 

&#8226; Physical auctions &#8212; We dispose of an off-lease vehicle not purchased at termination by the lessee or dealer or sold on SmartAuction through traditional third-party, physical auctions. We are responsible for handling decisions at the auction including arranging for inspections, authorizing repairs and reconditioning, and determining whether bids received at auction should be accepted. 

We employ an internal team, including statisticians, to manage our analysis of projected used vehicle values and residual risk. This team aids in the pricing of new operating leases, managing the disposal process including vehicle concentration risk, geographic optimization of vehicles to maximize gains, disposal platform (internet vs. physical), and evaluating our residual risk on a real-time basis. This team tracks market movements of used vehicles using data down to the VIN level including trim and options, vehicle age, mileage, and seasonality factors that we feel are more relevant than other published indices (for example, Manheim, NADA). This analysis includes vehicles sold on our SmartAuction platform, as well as vehicles sold through Manheim, ADESA, and over 200 independent physical auction sites. We believe this analysis gives us a competitive advantage over our peers. 

Commercial Automotive Financing 

Automotive Wholesale Dealer Financing 

One of the most important aspects of our dealer relationships is providing wholesale floorplan financing for new- and used-vehicle inventories at dealerships. Wholesale floorplan financing, including syndicated loan arrangements, represents the largest portion of our commercial automotive financing business and is the primary source of funding for dealers&#8217; purchases of new and used vehicles. 

Wholesale floorplan financing is generally extended in the form of lines of credit to individual dealers. These lines of credit are secured by the vehicles financed and all other vehicle inventory, which provide strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral (for example, blanket lien over all dealership assets) or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are generally obtained to further mitigate credit risk. Furthermore, in some cases, we may benefit from situations where an automotive manufacturer repurchases vehicles. These repurchases may serve as an additional layer of protection in the event of repossession of dealership new-vehicle inventory or dealership franchise termination. The amount we advance to dealers for a new vehicle is equal to 100% of the manufacturer&#8217;s wholesale invoice price, subject to payment curtailment schedules. The amount we advance to dealers for a used vehicle is typically 90&#8211;100% of the dealer&#8217;s cost of acquiring it. Interest on wholesale floorplan financing is generally payable monthly. The majority of wholesale floorplan financing is structured to yield interest at a floating rate indexed to the Prime Rate. The rate for a particular dealer is based on, among other things, competitive factors, the size of the account, and the dealer&#8217;s creditworthiness. Additionally, under our Ally Dealer Rewards Program, dealers benefit in certain circumstances from wholesale-floorplan-financing incentives, which we pay and account for as a reduction to interest income in the period they are earned. 

Under our wholesale-floorplan-financing agreement, a dealership is generally required to pay the principal amount financed for a vehicle within a specified number of days following the dealership&#8217;s sale or lease of the vehicle. The agreement also affords us the right to demand payment of all amounts owed under the wholesale credit line at any time. We, however, generally make this demand only if we terminate the credit line, the dealer defaults, or a risk-based reason exists to do so. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Commercial Wholesale Financing Volume 

The following table presents the percentage of average balance of our commercial wholesale floorplan finance receivables, in dollars, by product type and by channel. 

##TABLE_START Average balance 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Stellantis new vehicles 40 &#160; % 31 % 32 % Used vehicles 24 &#160; 44 34 % GM new vehicles 22 &#160; 17 20 Other new vehicles 14 &#160; 8 14 Total 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % Total commercial wholesale finance receivables $ 14,223 &#160; $ 11,418 $ 11,183 ##TABLE_END

Average commercial wholesale financing receivables outstanding increased $2.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022, was primarily due to increased industry-wide new vehicle inventory levels. This was partially offset by reduced used vehicle inventory levels across the automotive industry. 

As of December 31, 2023, Carvana's commercial line of credits totaled $1.5 billion, with a scheduled maturity in the third quarter of 2025. The line of credit represents a commitment to fund Carvana&#8217;s wholesale floorplan financing of used vehicles and is consistent in form and structure with our other wholesale floorplan financing arrangements. This includes the line of credit being fully collateralized to mitigate counterparty credit risk in the event of a default. On August 31, 2023, Carvana announced the following final results of its previously announced debt exchange offers: reduction in total debt by over $1.3 billion, extension of maturities, and lowering of near-term cash interest expense by more than $455 million each year for the next two years. Prior to that announcement, Carvana had asked us to consent to Carvana offering a second-priority lien on much of our collateral in connection with the debt exchange offers described in the August 31, 2023, announcement and other debt exchange offers contemplated in prior Carvana announcements. On September 1, 2023, we consented to this request in the context of our long-standing business relationship with Carvana and on terms that maintain our collateral position. At December 31, 2023, Carvana&#8217;s gross wholesale floorplan assets outstanding balance was $113 million. 

Other Commercial Automotive Financing 

We also provide other forms of commercial financing for the automotive industry including automotive dealer term and revolving loans and automotive fleet financing. Automotive dealer term and revolving loans are loans that we make to dealers to finance other aspects of the dealership business, including acquisitions. These loans are usually secured by real estate or other dealership assets and are typically personally guaranteed by the individual owners of the dealership. Additionally, these loans generally include cross-collateral and cross-default provisions. Automotive fleet financing credit lines may be obtained by dealers, their affiliates, and other independent companies that are used to purchase vehicles, which they lease or rent to others. The average balances of other commercial automotive loans increased $917 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022, to an average of $6.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Servicing and Monitoring 

We service all of the wholesale credit lines in our portfolio and the associated wholesale automotive finance receivables. A statement setting forth billing and account information is distributed on a monthly basis to each dealer. Interest and other nonprincipal charges are billed in arrears and are required to be paid immediately upon receipt of the monthly billing statement. Generally, dealers remit payments to us through ACH transactions initiated by the dealer through a secure web application. 

We manage risk related to wholesale floorplan financing by assessing dealership borrowers using a proprietary model based on various factors, including their capital sufficiency, operating performance, and credit and payment history. This model assigns dealership borrowers a risk rating that affects the amount of the line of credit and the ongoing risk management of the account. We monitor the level of borrowing under each dealer&#8217;s credit line daily. We may adjust the dealer&#8217;s credit line if warranted, based on the dealership&#8217;s vehicle sales rate, and temporarily suspend the granting of additional credit, or take other actions following evaluation and analysis of the dealer&#8217;s financial condition. 

We periodically inspect and verify the existence of dealer vehicle inventories. The timing of these collateral audits varies, and no advance notice is given to the dealer. Among other things, audits are intended to assess dealer compliance with the financing agreement and confirm the status of our collateral. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Insurance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the operating results of our Insurance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our other reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022&#8211;2021 % change Insurance premiums and other income Insurance premiums and service revenue earned $ 1,271 &#160; $ 1,151 $ 1,117 10 3 Interest and dividends on investment securities, cash and cash equivalents, and other earning assets, net (a) 117 &#160; 89 59 31 51 Other gain (loss) on investments, net (b) 144 &#160; (143) 216 n/m (166) Other income 13 &#160; 15 12 (13) 25 Total insurance premiums and other income 1,545 &#160; 1,112 1,404 39 (21) Expense Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses 422 &#160; 280 261 (51) (7) Acquisition and underwriting expense Compensation and benefits expense 108 &#160; 101 92 (7) (10) Insurance commissions expense 636 &#160; 610 562 (4) (9) Other expenses 166 &#160; 159 146 (4) (9) Total acquisition and underwriting expense 910 &#160; 870 800 (5) (9) Total expense 1,332 &#160; 1,150 1,061 (16) (8) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense $ 213 &#160; $ (38) $ 343 n/m (111) Total assets $ 9,081 &#160; $ 8,659 $ 9,381 5 (8) Insurance premiums and service revenue written $ 1,275 &#160; $ 1,103 $ 1,197 16 (8) Combined ratio (c) 103.7 &#160; % 98.6 % 93.9 % ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Includes interest expense of $32 million, $37 million, and $58 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

(b) Includes net unrealized gains on equity securities of $110 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, and net unrealized losses on equity securities of $210 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 

(c) Management uses a combined ratio as a primary measure of underwriting profitability. Underwriting profitability is indicated by a combined ratio under 100% and is calculated as the sum of all incurred losses and expenses (excluding interest and income tax expense) divided by the total of premiums and service revenue earned and other income (excluding interest, dividends, and other investment activity). 

2023 Compared to 2022 

Our Insurance operations generated income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $213 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to a loss of $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher net investment gains and increases in insurance premiums and service revenue earned, which were partially offset by increases in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. 

Insurance premiums and service revenue earned was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.2 billion for the same period in 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher P&#38;C earned premium from higher dealer inventory levels, growth in other dealer-related protection products, and higher other premium and service revenue written from non-automotive assumed reinsurance business. 

Other gain on investments, net was $144 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to other loss on investments, net of $143 million for the same period in 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily attributable to the performance of equity securities, consistent with broader stock market performance. 

Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses totaled $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $280 million for the same period in 2022. Loss and loss adjustment expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased primarily due to increased losses from our vehicle inventory insurance program attributable to higher weather frequency and severity, growing dealer inventory levels, and higher insured values for non-weather losses. During the year ended December 31, 2023, weather-related loss and loss adjustment expenses from our vehicle inventory insurance program was $90 million, compared to $34 million during the same period in 2022. We utilized our excess of loss reinsurance and ceded weather-related losses on our vehicle inventory insurance program for the first and third quarters of 2023 as losses exceeded the retention limits of $14 million and $21 million, respectively. In April 2023, we renewed our annual 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

excess of loss reinsurance agreement and continue to utilize this coverage for our vehicle inventory insurance to manage our risk of weather-related losses under which retention limits vary for each quarter. Additionally, higher GAP losses for the year ended December 31, 2023, were primarily driven by higher loss frequency and severity following vehicle value normalization. Losses also increased commensurate with portfolio growth from other dealer-related protection products in our P&#38;C business and growth in non-automotive assumed reinsurance business. 

Our combined ratio was 103.7% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 98.6% for the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in insurance losses and loss adjustment expense during the year ended December 31, 2023, partially offset by higher earned premiums. In particular, the increase was primarily driven by increased weather frequency and severity in our P&#38;C business, higher GAP losses that were primarily driven by higher loss frequency and severity following used vehicle normalization and higher loss severity from VSCs as a result of higher vehicle part and labor costs. 

Premium and Service Revenue Written 

The following table summarizes premium and service revenue written by product, net of premiums ceded to reinsurers, and premiums and service revenue assumed from third-parties. VSC and GAP revenue are earned over the life of the service contract on a basis proportionate to the anticipated loss pattern. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this revenue stream. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Finance and insurance products Vehicle service contracts $ 713 &#160; $ 702 $ 838 Guaranteed asset protection and other finance and insurance products (a) 233 &#160; 175 162 Total finance and insurance products 946 &#160; 877 1,000 Property and casualty insurance (b) 287 &#160; 215 197 Other premium and service revenue written (c) 42 &#160; 11 &#8212; 

Total 

$ 1,275 &#160; $ 1,103 $ 1,197 ##TABLE_END

(a) Other financial and insurance products include VMCs, ClearGuard, and other ancillary products. 

(b) P&#38;C insurance includes vehicle inventory insurance and dealer ancillary products including property and liability coverage underwritten by a third-party carrier earned on a straight-line basis. 

(c) Primarily includes non-automotive assumed reinsurance and revenue associated with performing services as an underwriting carrier. 

Insurance premiums and service revenue written was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.1 billion for the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher written premiums from our P&#38;C business from rising dealer inventory levels and growth in other dealer property and liability products. The increase was also impacted by higher F&#38;I premiums for other ancillary products in the U.S. and higher volume in Canada, partially offset by a continued shift in VSC product mix toward dealer reinsurance structures, where we earn a fee to administer the contract and cede premium and losses from the contract to the dealer&#8217;s reinsurance company. Additionally, the increase was also driven by growth in other premium and service revenue written from non-automotive assumed reinsurance business. 

Cash and Investments 

A significant aspect of our Insurance operations is the investment of proceeds from premiums and other revenue sources. We use these investments to satisfy our obligations related to future claims at the time these claims are settled. Our Insurance operations have an Investment Committee, which develops guidelines and strategies for these investments. The guidelines established by this committee reflect our risk appetite, liquidity requirements, regulatory requirements, and rating agency considerations, among other factors. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table summarizes the composition of our Insurance operations cash and investment portfolio at fair value. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Cash and cash equivalents Noninterest-bearing cash $ 74 &#160; $ 91 Interest-bearing cash 418 &#160; 401 Total cash and cash equivalents 492 &#160; 492 Equity securities 788 &#160; 675 Available-for-sale securities Debt securities U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 494 &#160; 485 U.S. States and political subdivisions 390 &#160; 474 Foreign government 183 &#160; 146 Agency mortgage-backed residential 961 &#160; 1,026 Mortgage-backed residential 225 &#160; 235 Corporate debt 1,800 &#160; 1,719 

Total available-for-sale securities (amortized cost of $4,484 and $4,636) 

4,053 &#160; 4,085 Total cash, cash equivalents, and securities $ 5,333 &#160; $ 5,252 ##TABLE_END

In addition to these cash and investment securities, the Insurance segment has interest-bearing intercompany arrangements with Corporate and Other, callable on demand. The intercompany loan balance due to Insurance was $619 million and $417 million at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and related interest income of $10 million and $9 million was recognized for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Mortgage Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the activities of our Mortgage Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022-2021 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Total financing revenue and other interest income $ 600 &#160; $ 575 $ 407 4 41 Interest expense 389 &#160; 354 283 (10) (25) Net financing revenue and other interest income 211 &#160; 221 124 (5) 78 Gain on mortgage loans, net 16 &#160; 26 87 (38) (70) Other income, net of losses &#8212; &#160; 1 7 (100) (86) Total other revenue 16 &#160; 27 94 (41) (71) Total net revenue 227 &#160; 248 218 (8) 14 Provision for credit losses (3) 3 (1) n/m n/m Noninterest expense &#160; Compensation and benefits expense 20 &#160; 23 22 13 (5) Other operating expenses 118 &#160; 167 165 29 (1) Total noninterest expense 138 &#160; 190 187 27 (2) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 

$ 92 &#160; $ 55 $ 32 67 72 Total assets $ 18,512 &#160; $ 19,529 $ 17,847 (5) 9 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

2023 Compared to 2022 

Our Mortgage Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $92 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower net financing revenue and other interest income and gain on mortgage loans, net. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income was $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $221 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in net financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by a higher interest rate environment, which resulted in a decrease in asset balances due to lower origination volume and an increase in the cost of funds. This was partially offset by lower prepayment activity, which resulted in lower premium amortization. Premium amortization was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we purchased $21 million of mortgage loans that were originated by third parties, compared to $2.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. We originated $143 million of mortgage loans held-for-investment during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net, was $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2023, was attributable to lower volume on direct-to-consumer mortgage originations and the subsequent sale of these loans to BMC. We originated $812 million of loans held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $2.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. 

The provision for credit losses decreased $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by a decrease in the portfolio size. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Total noninterest expense was $138 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $190 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by lower operating expenses due to lower origination volumes. These costs are generally scalable with our origination volume as a result of our strategic partnership with BMC. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the total UPB of purchases and originations of consumer mortgages held-for-investment, by FICO&#174; Score at the time of acquisition. 

##TABLE_START FICO&#174; Score Volume 

($ in millions) 

% Share of volume Year ended December 31, 2023 740 + $ 145 &#160; 89 &#160; 720&#8211;739 9 &#160; 6 &#160; 700&#8211;719 5 &#160; 3 &#160; 680&#8211;699 4 &#160; 2 &#160; 660&#8211;679 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 164 &#160; 100 &#160; Year ended December 31, 2022 740 + $ 3,217 83 720&#8211;739 388 10 700&#8211;719 235 6 680&#8211;699 51 1 660&#8211;679 2 &#8212; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 3,893 100 Year ended December 31, 2021 740 + $ 9,830 90 720&#8211;739 783 7 700&#8211;719 268 3 680&#8211;699 12 &#8212; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 10,893 100 ##TABLE_END

During the year ended December 31, 2023, we purchased and originated fewer consumer mortgage held-for-investment loans, as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by the elevated interest rate environment. Our origination levels were also impacted as we look to strategically deploy capital efficiently across our multiple business lines. When interest rates rise, the likelihood of refinancing decreases and origination volumes tend to decrease. 

The following table presents the net UPB, net UPB as a percentage of total, WAC, premium net of discounts, LTV, and FICO&#174; Scores for the products in our Mortgage Finance held-for-investment loan portfolio. 

##TABLE_START Product Net UPB (a) ($ in millions) 

% of total net UPB WAC Net premium (discount) ($ in millions) 

Average refreshed LTV (b) Average refreshed FICO&#174; (c) December 31, 2023 Adjustable-rate $ 419 &#160; 2 &#160; 3.77 &#160; % $ 1 &#160; 52.95 &#160; % 775 &#160; Fixed-rate 18,028 &#160; 98 &#160; 3.19 &#160; (6) 52.22 &#160; 782 &#160; Total $ 18,447 &#160; 100 &#160; 3.20 &#160; $ (5) 52.24 &#160; 782 &#160; December 31, 2022 Adjustable-rate $ 408 2 3.18 % $ 2 52.64 % 771 Fixed-rate 19,039 98 3.18 (4) 54.69 782 Total $ 19,447 100 3.18 $ (2) 54.65 781 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents UPB, net of charge-offs. 

(b) Updated home values were derived using a combination of appraisals, broker price opinions, automated valuation models, and metropolitan statistical area level house price indices. 

(c) Updated to reflect changes in credit score since loan origination. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Corporate Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the activities of our Corporate Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022-2021 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Interest and fees on finance receivables and loans $ 967 &#160; $ 527 $ 334 83 58 Interest on loans held-for-sale 13 &#160; 19 11 (32) 73 Interest expense 583 &#160; 212 37 (175) n/m Net financing revenue and other interest income 

397 &#160; 334 308 19 8 Total other revenue 104 &#160; 122 128 (15) (5) Total net revenue 501 &#160; 456 436 10 5 Provision for credit losses 52 &#160; 43 38 (21) (13) Noninterest expense &#160; Compensation and benefits expense 78 &#160; 75 70 (4) (7) Other operating expenses 64 &#160; 56 46 (14) (22) Total noninterest expense 142 &#160; 131 116 (8) (13) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense $ 307 &#160; $ 282 $ 282 9 &#8212; Total assets $ 11,212 &#160; $ 10,544 $ 7,950 6 33 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

2023 Compared to 2022 

Our Corporate Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $307 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $282 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily due to higher net financing revenue and other interest income, partially offset by lower total other revenue and higher noninterest expense, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income was $397 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $334 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily due to higher average assets from continued growth in the portfolio, as well as higher interest income resulting from higher rates as all loans in the portfolio are variable rate. This was partially offset by an increase in interest expense as benchmark interest rates continued to rise. 

Other revenue decreased $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower net investment gains, driven by a gain from the sale of a previously restructured exposure recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022 . The decrease was partially offset by higher fee income for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. 

The provision for credit losses increased $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven by reserve reductions in the year ended December 31, 2022, related to reserves established at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by lower specific reserve activity during the year ended December 31, 2023, and lower portfolio loan growth as compared to the same period in 2022. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Total noninterest expense increased $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher direct and allocated expenses related to the growth of the business. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Credit Portfolio 

The following table presents loans held-for-sale, the amortized cost of finance receivables and loans outstanding, unfunded commitments to lend, and total serviced loans of our Corporate Finance operations. As of December 31, 2023, 65% of our loans and 62% of our lending commitments were asset based, with 99.9% in a first-lien position. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, total criticized exposures were 10.6% and 14.2% of total Corporate Finance finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31 , ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Loans held-for-sale, net 

$ 253 &#160; $ 445 Finance receivables and loans (a) $ 10,905 &#160; $ 10,147 Unfunded lending commitments (b) $ 8,256 &#160; $ 6,390 Total serviced loans 

$ 15,367 &#160; $ 14,823 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $9.6 billion and $9.0 billion of commercial and industrial loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion of commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. Our commercial real estate loans are currently focused on lending to skilled nursing facilities, senior housing, and medical office buildings. There are no exposures related to commercial office buildings. 

(b) Includes unused revolving credit line commitments for loans held-for-sale and finance receivables and loans, signed commitment letters, and standby letter of credit facilities, which are issued on behalf of clients and may contingently require us to make payments to a third-party beneficiary in the event of a draw by the beneficiary thereunder. As many of these commitments are subject to borrowing base agreements and other restrictive covenants or may expire without being fully drawn, the stated amounts of these unfunded commitments are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. 

The following table presents the percentage of total finance receivables and loans of our Corporate Finance operations by industry concentration. The finance receivables and loans are reported at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 Industry 

Financial services 

46.6 &#160; % 40.9 % Services 

14.1 &#160; 13.4 Health services 

12.8 &#160; 14.5 Machinery, equipment, and electronics 

7.0 &#160; 7.3 Chemicals and metals 

6.7 &#160; 7.0 Automotive and transportation 

6.4 &#160; 8.7 Wholesale 

1.9 &#160; 2.6 Retail trade 1.3 &#160; 1.7 Construction 1.3 &#160; 0.9 Other manufactured products 

1.0 &#160; 2.1 Other 

0.9 &#160; 0.9 Total finance receivables and loans 

100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Corporate and Other 

The following table summarizes the activities of Corporate and Other, which primarily consist of centralized corporate treasury activities such as management of the cash and corporate investment securities and loan portfolios, short- and long-term debt, retail and brokered deposit liabilities, derivative instruments, original issue discount, and the residual impacts of our corporate FTP and treasury ALM activities. Corporate and Other also includes certain equity investments, which primarily consist of FHLB and FRB stock as well as other strategic investments through Ally Ventures, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, which primarily consists of loans originated prior to January 1, 2009, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, Ally Credit Card, CRA loans and investments, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Additionally, Corporate and Other includes costs that are not allocated to our reportable operating segments as part of our COH methodology, which involves management judgment. Refer to Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31 , ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2023-2022 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2022&#8211;2021 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Interest and fees on finance receivables and loans (a) $ 1,280 &#160; $ 599 $ 5 114 n/m Interest on loans held-for-sale 

13 &#160; 7 3 86 133 Interest and dividends on investment securities and other earning assets (b) 896 &#160; 726 498 23 46 Interest on cash and cash equivalents 319 &#160; 52 14 n/m n/m Total financing revenue and other interest income 

2,508 &#160; 1,384 520 81 166 

Interest expense 

Original issue discount amortization (c) 61 &#160; 53 49 (15) (8) Other interest expense (d) 2,332 &#160; 349 4 n/m n/m Total interest expense 

2,393 &#160; 402 53 n/m n/m Net financing revenue and other interest income 115 &#160; 982 467 (88) 110 

Other revenue 

Loss on extinguishment of debt &#8212; &#160; &#8212; (136) &#8212; 100 Other gain on investments, net &#8212; &#160; 22 64 (100) (66) 

Other income, net of losses 

144 &#160; 78 293 85 (73) Total other revenue 

144 &#160; 100 221 44 (55) 

Total net revenue 

259 &#160; 1,082 688 (76) 57 

Provision for credit losses 

301 &#160; 317 151 5 (110) Total noninterest expense (e) (f) 1,101 &#160; 972 723 (13) (34) Loss from continuing operations before income tax expense $ (1,143) $ (207) $ (186) n/m (11) 

Total assets 

$ 42,200 &#160; $ 41,631 $ 43,283 1 (4) ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Includes impacts associated with hedging activities within our automotive loan portfolio, consumer other lending activity, and financing revenue from our legacy mortgage portfolio. 

(b) Includes impacts associated with hedging activities of our available-for-sale securities. 

(c) Amortization is included as interest on long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 

(d) Includes the residual impacts of our FTP methodology and impacts of hedging activities of certain debt obligations. 

(e) Includes reductions of $1.4 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, related to the allocation of COH expenses to other segments. The receiving segments record their allocation of COH expense within other operating expense. 

(f) Includes a $149 million impairment of goodwill related to the transfer of our Ally Lending business to held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the scheduled remaining amortization of the original issue discount at December 31, 2023. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 and thereafter (a) Total Original issue discount Outstanding balance at year end $ 763 $ 689 $ 607 $ 513 $ 406 $ &#8212; Total amortization (b) 68 74 82 94 107 406 $ 831 ##TABLE_END

(a) The maximum annual scheduled amortization for any individual year is $143 million in 2030. 

(b) The amortization is included as interest on long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 

2023 Compared to 2022 

Corporate and Other incurred a loss from continuing operations before income tax expense of $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to a loss of $207 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in loss for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by an increase in interest expense due to a higher interest rate environment, partially offset by an increase in total financing revenue and other interest income and total other revenue. 

Total financing revenue and other interest income was $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by the impacts of a higher interest rate environment on the investment securities portfolio and hedging activities, in addition to higher interest associated with cash and cash equivalents and growth within unsecured lending. 

Total interest expense increased $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Interest expense in our Corporate and Other segment includes our external borrowing costs less the amount charged to our operating segments, which is based on our FTP methodology. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by higher deposit costs during the year reflecting a higher overall interest rate environment. 

Total other revenue increased $44 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by net downward adjustments (including impairment) related to equity investments without a readily determinable fair value during the year ended December 31, 2022, that did not reoccur during the current periods. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in income from equity method investments and a decrease in other gains on investments. 

The provision for credit losses decreased $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the decrease in provision for credit losses was primarily driven by lower portfolio loan growth as compared to the same period in 2022 for Ally Lending and Ally Credit Card in addition to a provision benefit from the transfer of Ally Lending to held-for-sale, partially offset by higher net charge-offs within Ally Credit Card and Ally Lending. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Noninterest expense increased $129 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by increased compensation and benefits expense, inclusive of the restructuring charges associated with a workforce reduction and goodwill impairment from the transfer of our Ally Lending operations to held-for-sale, partially offset by lower other operating expenses. 

Total assets were $42.2 billion as of December 31, 2023, compared to $41.6 billion as of December 31, 2022. Total assets include the amortized cost of the legacy mortgage portfolio of $225 million as of December 31, 2023, compared to $290 million at December 31, 2022. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Cash and Securities 

The following table summarizes the composition of the cash and securities portfolio at fair value for Corporate and Other. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Cash and cash equivalents Noninterest-bearing cash $ 564 &#160; $ 451 Interest-bearing cash 5,889 &#160; 4,628 Total cash and cash equivalents 6,453 &#160; 5,079 Equity securities (a) 16 &#160; &#8212; Available-for-sale securities Debt securities U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 1,581 &#160; 1,531 U.S. States and political subdivisions 268 &#160; 286 Agency mortgage-backed residential 14,423 &#160; 15,607 Mortgage-backed residential &#8212; &#160; 4,064 Agency mortgage-backed commercial 3,758 &#160; 3,535 Asset-backed 332 &#160; 433 

Total available-for-sale securities (amortized cost of $23,932 and $30,227) 

20,362 &#160; 25,456 Held-to-maturity securities Debt securities Agency mortgage-backed residential 826 &#160; 884 Mortgage-backed residential (b) 3,824 &#160; &#8212; Asset-backed retained notes 79 &#160; &#8212; 

Total held-to-maturity securities (amortized cost of $4,680 and $1,062) 

4,729 &#160; 884 Total cash, cash equivalents, and securities $ 31,560 &#160; $ 31,419 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes a $16 million investment in BHF as of December 31, 2023, which was recorded as a nonmarketable equity investment as of December 31, 2022, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

(b) Includes transfers of available-for-sale securities to held-to-maturity securities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Other Investments 

The following table summarizes other investments at carrying value for Corporate and Other. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these investments. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Other assets Investment in qualified affordable housing projects $ 1,866 &#160; $ 1,596 Nonmarketable equity investments (a) 828 &#160; 794 Equity-method investments (b) 602 &#160; 563 Total other investments $ 3,296 &#160; $ 2,953 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes a $19 million investment in BMC Holdco as of December 31, 2022, which was transferred to equity securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2023. 

(b) Primarily comprises 62 and 55 investments made in connection with our CRA program at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. The carrying value of these investments was $595 million and $557 million at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

Nonmarketable equity investments and equity-method investments include strategic investments made through Ally Ventures. Ally Ventures identifies, invests in, and builds relationships with key startups. At December 31, 2023, the carrying value of investments made through Ally Ventures was $49 million, comprising 18 investments, as compared to $81 million comprising 18 investments at December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Ally Invest 

Ally Invest is our digital brokerage and advisory offering, which enables us to complement our competitive deposit products with low-cost and commission-free investing. The following table presents trading days and average customer trades per day, the number of funded accounts, total net customer assets, and total customer cash balances as of the end of each of the last five quarters. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Trading days (a) 62.5 &#160; 62.5 62.0 62.0 62.5 Average customer trades per day, (in thousands) 

23.4 &#160; 24.9 26.2 29.1 27.1 

Funded accounts (b) (in thousands) 

523 &#160; 524 521 523 518 

Total net customer assets (b) ($ in millions) 

$ 15,164 &#160; $ 13,981 $ 14,945 $ 14,060 $ 12,834 

Total customer cash balances (b) ($ in millions) 

$ 1,454 &#160; $ 1,363 $ 1,578 $ 1,622 $ 1,757 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents the number of days the New York Stock Exchange and other U.S. stock exchange markets are open for trading. A half day represents a day when the U.S. markets close early. 

(b) Represents activity across the brokerage, robo and advisory portfolios. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, total funded accounts increased 1% from the fourth quarter of 2022. Average customer trades per day decreased 14% from the fourth quarter of 2022, driven by continued lower customer engagement. Additionally, net customer assets increased 18% from the fourth quarter of 2022, as a result of changes in equity market valuations and total accounts. 

Ally Lending 

Ally Lending is our unsecured personal lending offering, which primarily serves home improvement and medical service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. For further information, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Active merchants totaled approximately 2,400 as of December 31, 2023. Active borrowers totaled approximately 460,000 as of December 31, 2023. 

The following table presents personal lending originations and average FICO&#174; Score. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Volume Average FICO&#174; Volume (a) Average FICO&#174; Total Personal Lending originations $ 1,538 &#160; 755 &#160; $ 2,131 736 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes loans for which we have elected the fair value option measurement during the year ended December 31, 2022. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, personal lending originations decreased $593 million to $1.5 billion, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 

We transferred our personal lending portfolio balance to assets of operations held-for-sale as of December 31, 2023. For further information, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The associated yield was 9.9% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 11.3% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in yield for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to increased originations in the home improvement vertical, as well as a shift in origination mix to customers with higher average FICO&#174; scores. 

Ally Credit Card 

Ally Credit Card is our scalable, digital-first credit card platform that features leading-edge technology, and proprietary, analytics-based underwriting and portfolio-management models. The following table presents total active cardholders and finance receivables and loans. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 Total active cardholders (in thousands) 

1,222 &#160; 1,042 Finance receivables and loans ($ in millions) 

$ 1,990 &#160; $ 1,599 ##TABLE_END

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Risk Management 

Managing the risk/reward trade-off is a fundamental component of operating our businesses, and all employees are responsible for managing risk. We use multiple layers of defense to identify, monitor, and manage current and emerging risks. 

&#8226; Business lines &#160;&#8212; Responsible for owning and managing all the risks that emanate from their risk-taking activities, including business units and support functions. 

&#8226; Independent risk management &#8212; Operates independent of the business lines and is responsible for establishing and maintaining our risk-management framework and promulgating it enterprise-wide. Independent risk management also provides an objective, critical assessment of risks and&#8212;through oversight, effective challenge, and other means&#8212;evaluates whether Ally remains aligned with its risk appetite. 

&#8226; Internal audit &#8212; Provides its own independent assessments regarding the quality of our loan portfolios as well as the effectiveness of our risk management, internal controls, and governance. Internal audit includes Audit Services and the Loan Review Group. 

Our risk-management framework is overseen by the RC. The RC sets the risk appetite across our company while risk-oriented management committees, the executive leadership team, and our associates identify and monitor current and emerging risks and manage those risks within our risk appetite. Our primary types of risks include the following: 

&#8226; Credit risk &#8212; The risk of loss arising from an obligor not meeting its contractual obligations to us. 

&#8226; Insurance/underwriting risk &#8212; The risk of loss or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, due to inadequate pricing and provisioning assumptions. 

&#8226; Liquidity risk &#8212; The risk that our financial condition or overall safety and soundness is adversely affected by the actual or perceived inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding or to easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Refer to discussion in the section titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital within this MD&#38;A. 

&#8226; Market risk &#8212; The risk that movements in market variables such as benchmark interest rates, investors&#8217; required risk premium, foreign-exchange rates, equity prices, and used car prices may adversely affect our earnings, capital, or economic value. Market risk includes interest rate risk, investment risk, and lease residual risk. 

&#8226; Business/strategic risk &#8212; The risk resulting from the pursuit of business plans that turn out to be unsuccessful due to a variety of factors. 

&#8226; Reputation risk &#8212; The risk arising from negative public opinion on our business practices, whether true or not, that could cause a decline in the customer base, litigation, or revenue reductions. 

&#8226; Operational risk &#8212; Operational risk is the risk of loss or harm arising from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events and is inherent in all of our risk-generating activities. 

&#8226; Model risk &#8212; The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model assumptions, inputs, outputs, and reports. This risk may include fundamental errors within the model that produce inaccurate outputs or that the model is used incorrectly or inappropriately. 

&#8226; Information technology/cybersecurity risk &#8212; The risk resulting from the failure of, or insufficiency in, information technology (for example, a system outage) or intentional or accidental unauthorized access, sharing, removal, tampering, or disposal of company and customer data or records (for example, cybersecurity). 

&#8226; Compliance risk &#8212; The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to the banking organization (applicable rules and standards). 

&#8226; Conduct risk &#8212; The risk of customer harm, employee harm, reputational damage, regulatory sanction, or financial loss resulting from the behavior of our employees and contractors toward customers, counterparties, other employees and contractors, or the markets in which we operate. 

Our risk-governance structure starts within each business line, including committees established to oversee risk in their respective areas. The business lines are responsible for their risk-based performance and compliance with risk-management policies and applicable law. The independent risk-management function is accountable for independently identifying, monitoring, measuring, and reporting on our various risks and for designing an effective risk-management framework and structure. The independent risk-management function is also responsible for developing, maintaining, and implementing enterprise risk-management. In addition, the ERMC is responsible for supporting the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s oversight of senior management&#8217;s responsibility to execute on our strategy within our risk appetite set by the RC, and the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s implementation of our independent risk-management program. The Chief Risk Officer reports to the RC, as well as administratively to the CEO. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

All business lines and corporate functions are subject to full and unrestricted audits by Audit Services. The Chief Audit Executive reports to the AC, as well as administratively to the CEO, and is primarily responsible for assisting the AC in fulfilling its governance and oversight responsibilities. Audit Services is granted free and unrestricted access to any and all of our records, physical properties, technologies, management, and employees. 

In addition, our Loan Review Group provides an independent assessment of the quality of our extensions of credit and credit-risk-management practices, and all business lines that create or influence credit risk are subject to full and unrestricted reviews by the Loan Review Group. This group is also granted free and unrestricted access to any and all of our records, physical properties, technologies, management and employees, and reports directly to the RC. 

In addition to the primary risks that we manage, climate-related risk has been identified as an emerging risk. Climate-related risk refers to the risk of loss or change in business activities arising from climate change and represents a transverse risk that could impact other risks within Ally&#8217;s risk-management framework, such as credit risk from negatively impacted borrowers, reputation risk from increased stakeholder concerns, and operational risk from physical climate risks. Refer to section titled Climate-Related Risk within this section for more information. 

Loan and Operating Lease Exposure 

The following table summarizes the exposures from our loan and operating-lease activities based on our reportable operating segments. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Finance receivables and loans Automotive Finance (a) $ 107,655 &#160; $ 102,070 Mortgage Finance 18,442 &#160; 19,445 Corporate Finance 10,905 &#160; 10,147 Corporate and Other (b) 2,437 &#160; 4,086 Total finance receivables and loans 139,439 &#160; 135,748 Loans held-for-sale Automotive Finance 13 &#160; 6 Mortgage Finance (c) 25 &#160; 13 Corporate Finance 253 &#160; 445 Corporate and Other (d) 2,049 &#160; 190 Total loans held-for-sale 2,340 &#160; 654 Total on-balance-sheet loans 141,779 &#160; 136,402 Off-balance-sheet securitized loans Automotive Finance 1,558 &#160; &#8212; Whole-loan sales Automotive Finance 956 &#160; 227 Corporate and Other 125 &#160; 103 Total off-balance-sheet loans (e) 2,639 &#160; 330 Operating lease assets Automotive Finance 9,171 &#160; 10,444 Total operating lease assets 9,171 &#160; 10,444 Total loan and operating lease exposure $ 153,589 &#160; $ 147,176 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes a liability of $93 million and $617 million associated with fair value hedging adjustments at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(b) Includes $225 million and $290 million of consumer mortgage loans in our legacy mortgage portfolio at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

(c) Represents the current balance of conforming mortgages originated directly to the held-for-sale portfolio. 

(d) Includes $1.9 billion of assets of operations held-for-sale as of December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(e) Represents the current unpaid principal balance of outstanding loans based on our customary representation and warranty provisions. 

The risks inherent in our loan and operating lease exposures are largely driven by changes in the overall economy (including GDP trends and inflationary pressures), used vehicle and housing prices, unemployment levels, real personal income, household savings, and their impact on our borrowers. The potential financial statement impact of these exposures varies depending on the accounting classification and future expected disposition strategy. We retain most of our consumer automotive and credit card loans as they complement our core business model, but we do sell loans from time to time on an opportunistic basis. We ultimately manage the associated risks based on the underlying 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

economics of the exposure. Our operating lease residual risk may be more volatile than credit risk in stressed macroeconomic scenarios. While all operating leases are exposed to potential reductions in used vehicle values, only loans where we take possession of the vehicle are affected by potential reductions in used vehicle values. 

&#8226; Finance receivables and loans &#160; &#8212; Loans that we have the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity, or loans associated with an on-balance-sheet securitization classified as a secured borrowing. Finance receivables and loans are reported at their amortized cost basis, which includes the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, unamortized premiums and discounts on purchased loans, unamortized basis adjustments arising from the designation of finance receivables and loans as the hedged item in qualifying fair value hedge relationships, and cumulative principal net charge-offs. We refer to the amortized cost basis less the allowance for loan losses as the net carrying value in finance receivables and loans. We manage the economic risks of these exposures, including credit risk, by adjusting underwriting standards and risk limits, augmenting our servicing and collection activities (including loan modifications and restructurings), and optimizing our product and geographic concentrations. Additionally, we may elect to account for certain loans at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these loans are recognized in a valuation allowance separate from the allowance for loan losses and are reflected in current period earnings. We may use market-based instruments, such as derivatives, to hedge changes in the fair value of these loans. 

&#8226; Loans held-for-sale &#160;&#8212; Loans that we do not have the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity. These loans are recorded on our balance sheet at the lower of their net carrying value or fair market value and are evaluated by portfolio and product type. We manage the economic risks of these exposures, including market and credit risks, in various ways including the use of market-based instruments, such as derivatives. 

&#8226; Off-balance sheet securitized loans &#8212; Loans that we transfer off-balance sheet to nonconsolidated variable interest entities. Our exposure is primarily limited to customary representation and warranty provisions. Similar to finance receivables and loans, we manage the economic risks of these exposures through activities including servicing and collections. 

&#8226; Whole-loan sales &#160;&#8212; Loans that we transfer off-balance sheet to third-party investors. Our exposure is primarily limited to customary representation, warranty and covenant provisions. Similar to finance receivables and loans, we manage the economic risks of these exposures through activities including servicing and collections. 

&#8226; Operating lease assets &#160;&#8212; The net book value of the automotive assets we lease includes the expected residual values upon remarketing the vehicles at the end of the lease and is reported net of accumulated depreciation. We are exposed to fluctuations in the expected residual value upon remarketing the vehicle at the end of the lease, and accordingly at contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense appropriately over the remaining life of the contract. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. The balance sheet reflects both the operating lease asset as well as any associated rent receivables. The operating lease rent receivable is accrued when collection is reasonably assured and presented as a component of other assets. The operating lease asset is reviewed for impairment in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 

Refer to the section titled Critical Accounting Estima tes within this MD&#38;A and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss arising from an obligor not meeting its contractual obligations to us. Credit risk includes consumer credit risk, commercial credit risk, and counterparty credit risk. 

Credit risk is a major source of potential economic loss to us. Credit risk is monitored by the executive leadership team and our associates, and is regularly reported to and reviewed with the RC. Management oversees credit decisioning, account servicing activities, and credit-risk-management processes, and manages credit risk exposures within our risk appetite. In addition, our Loan Review Group provides an independent assessment of the quality of our credit portfolios and credit-risk-management practices and reports its findings to the RC on a regular basis. 

To mitigate risk, we have implemented specific policies and practices across business lines, utilizing both qualitative and quantitative analyses. This reflects our commitment to maintaining an independent and ongoing assessment of credit risk and credit quality. Our policies require an objective and timely assessment of the overall quality of the consumer and commercial loan and operating lease portfolios. This includes the identification of relevant trends that affect the collectability of the portfolios, microsegments of the portfolios that are potential problem areas, loans and operating leases with potential credit weaknesses, and the assessment of the adequacy of internal credit risk policies and procedures. Our consumer and commercial loan and operating lease portfolios are subject to periodic stress tests, which include economic scenarios whose severity mirrors those developed and distributed by the FRB to assess how the portfolios may perform in a severe economic 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

downturn. In addition, we establish and maintain underwriting policies and limits across our portfolios and higher risk segments (for example, nonprime) based on our risk appetite. 

Another important aspect to managing credit risk involves the need to carefully monitor and manage the performance and pricing of our loan products with the aim of generating appropriate risk-adjusted returns. When considering pricing, various granular risk-based factors are considered such as expected loss rates, loss volatility, anticipated operating costs, and targeted returns on equity. We carefully monitor credit losses and trends in credit losses relative to expected credit losses at contract inception. We closely monitor our loan performance and profitability in light of forecasted economic conditions and manage credit risk and expectations of losses in the portfolio. 

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower, the source of repayment, the underlying collateral, and current market and economic conditions. We monitor the credit risk profile of individual borrowers, various segmentations (for example, geographic region, product type, industry segment), as well as the aggregate portfolio. We perform quarterly analyses of the consumer automotive, consumer mortgage, consumer other, and commercial portfolios to assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses based on historical, current, and anticipated trends. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Additionally, we utilize numerous collection strategies to mitigate loss and provide ongoing support to customers in financial distress. We have enhanced our collection strategies to include customized messaging, digital communication, and proactive monitoring of vendor performance. We may offer several types of assistance to aid our customers based on their willingness and ability to repay their loan. As part of certain programs, we offer loan modifications to qualified borrowers, including payment extensions, interest rate concessions, and principal forgiveness. 

Furthermore, we manage our credit exposure to financial counterparties based on the risk profile of the counterparty. Within our policies we have established standards and requirements for managing counterparty risk exposures in a safe and sound manner. Counterparty credit risk is derived from multiple exposure types including derivatives, securities trading, securities financing transactions, lending arrangements, and certain cash balances. For more information on derivative counterparty credit risk, refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We employ an internal team of economists to enhance our planning and forecasting capabilities. This team conducts industry and market research, monitors economic risks, and helps support various forms of scenario planning. This group closely monitors macroeconomic trends given the nature of our business and the potential impacts on our exposure to credit risk. The unemployment rate remained low at 3.7% as of December 31, 2023. Sales of new light vehicles were higher than 2022, but slowed sequentially to an average annual rate of 15.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2023. Sales of new light motor vehicles remain below the pre-pandemic annual pace of 17.0 million in 2019, driving an increase in used vehicle values, as further described in the section below titled Operating Lease Vehicle Terminations and Remarketing . Additionally, used vehicle values may also be impacted by availability, the price of new vehicles, or changes in customer preferences. However, macroeconomic risks remain elevated. 

Consumer Credit Portfolio 

Our consumer loan portfolio primarily consists of automotive loans, first-lien mortgages, home equity loans, personal loans, and credit card loans. Loan losses in our consumer loan portfolio are influenced by changes in the overall economy (including GDP trends and inflationary pressures), used vehicle and housing prices, unemployment levels, real personal income, household savings, and their impact on our borrowers. Additionally, our consumer credit exposure is significantly concentrated in automotive lending. 

Credit risk management for the consumer loan portfolio begins with the initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower&#8217;s credit life cycle. We manage consumer credit risk through our loan origination and underwriting policies and the credit approval process. We use proprietary credit-scoring models to differentiate the expected default rates of credit applicants enabling us to better evaluate credit applications for approval and to tailor the pricing and financing structure according to this assessment of credit risk. We continue to monitor loss performance across the risk spectrum, which enables us to implement risk mitigation strategies, including pricing increments and curtailment actions on underperforming microsegments. We continuously monitor and routinely update the inputs of the credit scoring models. These and other actions mitigate but do not eliminate credit risk. Ineffective evaluations of a borrower&#8217;s creditworthiness, fraud, or changes in the applicant&#8217;s financial condition after approval could negatively affect the quality of our portfolio, resulting in loan losses. 

Our servicing activities are another important factor in managing consumer credit risk. Servicing activities consist of collecting and processing customer payments, responding to customer concerns and inquiries, processing customer requests (including those for payoff quotes, total-loss handling, and payment modifications), maintaining a perfected security interest in the financed vehicle, engaging in collections activity, and disposing of off-lease and repossessed vehicles. Servicing activities are generally consistent across our Automotive Finance operations; however, certain practices may be influenced by state laws. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, the credit performance of the consumer loan portfolio reflected our underwriting strategy to originate a diversified portfolio of consumer automotive loan assets, including new, used, prime and nonprime finance receivables and loans, high-quality jumbo and LMI mortgage loans that are obtained through bulk loan purchases and direct-to-consumer mortgage originations, as well as point-of-sale personal lending through Ally Lending. We also offer revolving, unsecured loans through Ally Credit Card. The carrying value of our nonprime held-for-investment consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses represented approximately 10.3% and 10.6% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. For information on our consumer 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

credit risk practices and policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, and charge-offs, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following table includes consumer finance receivables and loans recorded at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START Outstanding Nonperforming (a) Accruing past due 90 days or more (b) 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 Consumer automotive (c) (d) $ 84,320 &#160; $ 83,286 $ 1,129 &#160; $ 1,187 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 

18,442 &#160; 19,445 41 &#160; 34 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 

225 &#160; 290 13 &#160; 15 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total consumer mortgage 18,667 &#160; 19,735 54 &#160; 49 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Consumer other Personal Lending (e) (f) &#8212; &#160; 1,987 &#8212; &#160; 13 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Credit Card 1,990 &#160; 1,599 92 &#160; 43 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total consumer other 1,990 &#160; 3,586 92 &#160; 56 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total consumer finance receivables and loans 

$ 104,977 &#160; $ 106,607 $ 1,275 &#160; $ 1,292 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes nonaccrual TDR loans of $684 million at December 31, 2022. 

(b) Loans are generally in nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for 90 days or more, or when full collection is not expected. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our accounting policy for finance receivables and loans on nonaccrual status. 

(c) Certain finance receivables and loans are included in fair value hedging relationships. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(d) Includes outstanding CSG loans of $10.2 billion and $10.0 billion at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and RV loans of $459 million and $578 million at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. 

(e) Personal Lending finance receivables and loans, net were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(f) Excludes finance receivables of $3 million at December 31, 2022, for which we have elected the fair value option. 

Total consumer finance receivables and loans decreased $1.6 billion at December 31, 2023, compared with December 31, 2022. The decrease for 2023 was primarily due to the transfer of personal lending finance receivables and loans to assets of operations held-for-sale as a result of our commitment to sell our Ally Lending business. Additionally, our consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans decreased $1.1 billion due to portfolio runoff outpacing originations and purchases. When interest rates rise, the likelihood of refinancing decreases and origination volumes tend to decrease. The decrease was partially offset by a $1.0 billion increase in consumer automotive finance receivables and loans, primarily due to loan originations outpacing portfolio runoff. 

Total consumer nonperforming finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023, decreased $17 million to $1.3 billion from December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Nonperforming consumer finance receivables and loans as a percentage of total outstanding consumer finance receivables and loans was 1.2% at both December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. 

Consumer automotive loans accruing and past due 30 days or more increased $768 million to $3.7 billion at December 31, 2023, compared with December 31, 2022, as delinquencies have increased amid deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, driven by persistent inflation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we observed a slowing rate of increase in delinquency trends within our consumer automotive loan portfolio, as compared to 2022, as we continue to make adjustments to our underwriting strategies. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following tables include consumer net charge-offs and write-downs from transfers to loans held-for-sale from finance receivables and loans at amortized cost and related ratios. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

Net charge-offs (recoveries) Write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale (a) (b) Total Net charge-off ratios (c) Combined ratios (d) Consumer automotive $ 1,491 &#160; $ 41 &#160; $ 1,532 &#160; 1.8 &#160; % 1.8 &#160; % Consumer mortgage Mortgage &#8212; Legacy (6) &#8212; &#160; (6) (2.3) (2.3) Total consumer mortgage (6) &#8212; &#160; (6) &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; Consumer other &#8212; &#160; Personal Lending 122 &#160; 174 &#160; 296 &#160; 5.7 &#160; 13.9 &#160; Credit Card 156 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 156 &#160; 8.8 &#160; 8.8 &#160; Total consumer other 278 &#160; 174 &#160; 452 &#160; 7.1 &#160; 11.6 &#160; Total consumer finance receivables and loans $ 1,763 &#160; $ 215 &#160; $ 1,978 &#160; 1.6 &#160; 1.8 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Consumer automotive includes a $41 million reduction of allowance from the sales of retained interests related to securitizations during 2023, resulting in the deconsolidation of the assets and liabilities from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

(b) Consumer other includes a $174 million reduction of allowance from transfers to held-for-sale related to Personal Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(c) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

(d) Net charge-off and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale ratios are calculated as net charge-offs and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, 2022 ($ in millions) 

Net charge-offs (recoveries) Write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale Total Net charge-off ratios (a) Combined Ratios (b) Consumer automotive $ 785 $ &#8212; $ 785 1.0 % 1.0 % Consumer mortgage Mortgage &#8212; Legacy (9) &#8212; (9) (2.7) (2.7) Total consumer mortgage (9) &#8212; (9) &#8212; &#8212; Consumer other &#8212; Personal Lending 70 &#8212; 70 4.6 4.6 Credit Card 51 &#8212; 51 4.1 4.1 Total consumer other 121 &#8212; 121 4.4 4.4 Total consumer finance receivables and loans $ 897 $ &#8212; $ 897 0.9 0.9 ##TABLE_END

(a) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

(b) Net charge-off and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale ratios are calculated as net charge-offs and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

Our net charge-offs from total consumer finance receivables and loans were $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to net charge-offs of $897 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net charge-offs for our consumer automotive portfolio increased by $706 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2022, as delinquencies have increased amid deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, driven by persistent inflation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we observed a slowing rate of increase in delinquency trends within our consumer automotive loan portfolio, as compared to 2022, as we continue to make adjustments to our underwriting strategies. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table summarizes total consumer loan originations for the periods shown. Total consumer loan originations include loans classified as finance receivables and loans held-for-sale during the period. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Consumer automotive (a) $ 37,994 &#160; $ 42,923 Consumer other (b) (c) (d) 1,538 &#160; 2,131 Consumer mortgage (e) 955 &#160; 3,255 Total consumer loan originations $ 40,487 &#160; $ 48,309 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes loans purchased under forward flow agreements with automotive retailers, as well as $871 million of loans originated as held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2023, and $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

(b) Includes loans related to our Personal Lending portfolio for which we have elected the fair value option measurement during the year ended December 31, 2022. 

(c) Includes originations related to our Personal Lending portfolio, which were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(d) Excludes credit card loans, which are revolving in nature. 

(e) Excludes bulk loan purchases associated with our Mortgage Finance operations, and includes $812 million of loans originated as held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2023, and $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Total consumer loan originations decreased $7.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to decreased loan originations within the consumer automotive portfolio, as a result of our dynamic underwriting strategies, including strategic pricing and curtailment actions to optimize our risk appetite and returns. The decrease was also impacted by decreased loan originations within the consumer mortgage portfolio, due to a higher interest rate environment. 

The following table shows the percentage of consumer finance receivables and loans by state concentration based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 (a) 

December 31, 2022 Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other (b) Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other (c) California 8.5 &#160; % 39.2 &#160; % 9.4 &#160; % 8.7 % 38.8 % 8.4 % Texas 13.7 &#160; 7.3 &#160; 7.6 &#160; 13.6 7.3 7.7 Florida 9.5 &#160; 6.5 &#160; 9.0 &#160; 9.5 6.6 7.8 Pennsylvania 4.5 &#160; 2.1 &#160; 4.2 &#160; 4.5 2.1 4.6 Georgia 4.1 &#160; 2.9 &#160; 3.7 &#160; 4.1 2.9 3.5 North Carolina 4.3 &#160; 1.9 &#160; 2.9 &#160; 4.1 1.9 4.6 New York 3.7 &#160; 1.9 &#160; 5.4 &#160; 3.6 1.9 4.8 Illinois 3.3 &#160; 2.8 &#160; 4.6 &#160; 3.5 2.8 4.3 New Jersey 3.2 &#160; 2.4 &#160; 3.7 &#160; 3.2 2.4 3.6 Ohio 3.4 &#160; 0.4 &#160; 4.5 &#160; 3.4 0.4 3.6 Other United States 41.8 &#160; 32.6 &#160; 45.0 &#160; 41.8 32.9 47.1 Total consumer loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Presentation is in descending order as a percentage of total consumer finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023. 

(b) Excludes Personal Lending finance receivables and loans, which were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(c) Excludes $3 million of finance receivables at December 31, 2022, for which we have elected the fair value option. 

We monitor our consumer loan portfolio for concentration risk across the states in which we lend. The highest concentrations of consumer loans are in California and Texas, which represented an aggregate of 26.4% and 26.5% of our total outstanding consumer finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our consumer mortgage loan portfolio concentration within California, which is primarily composed of high-quality jumbo mortgage loans, generally aligns to the California share of jumbo mortgages nationally. 

Repossessed and Foreclosed Assets 

We classify a repossessed or foreclosed asset as held-for-sale, which is included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, when physical possession of the collateral is taken. We dispose of the acquired collateral in a timely fashion in accordance with regulatory requirements. For more information on repossessed and foreclosed assets, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Repossessed automotive loan assets in our Automotive Finance operations were $235 million and $183 million at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and foreclosed mortgage assets were $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Commercial Credit Portfolio 

Our commercial portfolio consists primarily of automotive loans through the extension of wholesale floorplan financing, automotive dealer term real estate loans, and automotive fleet financing, as well as other commercial loans from our Corporate Finance operations. Wholesale floorplan loans are secured by the vehicles financed (and all other vehicle inventory), which provides strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral (for example, a blanket lien over all dealership assets) or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are typically obtained to further mitigate credit risk. Furthermore, in some cases, we may benefit from situations where an automotive manufacturer repurchases vehicles. These repurchases may serve as an additional layer of protection in the event of repossession of new-vehicle dealership inventory or dealership franchise termination. 

Within our commercial portfolio, we utilize proprietary risk rating models that are fundamental to managing credit risk exposure consistently across various types of commercial borrowers and captures critical risk factors for each borrower. The ratings are used for many areas of credit risk management, including loan origination, portfolio risk monitoring, management reporting, and loan loss reserves analyses. Therefore, the rating systems are critical to an effective and consistent credit-risk-management framework. 

For information on our commercial credit risk practices and policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, and charge-offs, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following table includes total commercial finance receivables and loans reported at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START Outstanding Nonperforming (a) Accruing past due 90 days or more (b) 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive $ 18,700 &#160; $ 14,595 $ 18 &#160; $ 5 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; Other (c) 9,712 &#160; 9,154 98 &#160; 157 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Commercial real estate 6,050 &#160; 5,389 3 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total commercial finance receivables and loans $ 34,462 &#160; $ 29,138 $ 119 &#160; $ 162 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes nonaccrual TDR loans of $157 million at December 31, 2022. 

(b) Loans are generally in nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for 90 days or more, or when full collection is not expected. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our accounting policy for finance receivables and loans on nonaccrual status. 

(c) Other commercial and industrial primarily includes senior secured commercial lending largely associated with our Corporate Finance operations. 

Total commercial finance receivables and loans outstanding increased $5.3 billion from December 31, 2022, to $34.5 billion at December 31, 2023. Results were primarily driven by a $4.6 billion increase in our Automotive Finance segment, primarily within the commercial and industrial receivables class. 

Total commercial nonperforming finance receivables and loans were $119 million at December 31, 2023, reflecting an decrease of $43 million compared to December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to the charge-off of certain specific exposures within our Corporate Finance segment during the year ended December 31, 2023. Nonperforming commercial finance receivables and loans as a percentage of outstanding commercial finance receivables and loans was 0.3% and 0.6% at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

The following table includes total commercial net charge-offs from finance receivables and loans at amortized cost and related ratios. 

##TABLE_START Net charge-offs (recoveries) Net charge-off ratios (a) 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2023 2022 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive $ 23 &#160; $ (1) 0.1 &#160; % &#8212; % Other 101 57 1.1 &#160; 0.7 Commercial real estate &#8212; (1) &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total commercial finance receivables and loans $ 124 &#160; $ 55 0.4 &#160; 0.2 ##TABLE_END

(a) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

Our net charge-offs from total commercial finance receivables and loans were $124 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to net charge-offs of $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by the charge-off of specific exposures within our Corporate Finance and Automotive Finance operations, respectively. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Commercial Real Estate 

The commercial real estate portfolio consists of finance receivables and loans issued primarily to automotive dealers. Commercial real estate finance receivables and loans was $6.1 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, which represented 4.3% and 4.0% of total outstanding finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. There was $4.6 billion and $4.2 billion of commercial real estate loans included in the Automotive Finance segment at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion of commercial real estate loans included in the Corporate Finance segment at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. 

The following table presents the percentage of total commercial real estate finance receivables and loans by state concentration based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 Florida 17.6 &#160; % 17.9 % Texas 13.6 &#160; 14.9 California 7.9 &#160; 8.4 Ohio 5.9 &#160; 4.2 Michigan 5.4 &#160; 4.2 North Carolina 5.0 &#160; 5.3 New York 4.5 &#160; 6.3 Tennessee 3.7 &#160; 1.2 Georgia 3.0 &#160; 3.1 Missouri 2.8 &#160; 2.6 Other United States 30.6 &#160; 31.9 Total commercial real estate finance receivables and loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Commercial Criticized Exposure 

Finance receivables and loans classified as special mention, substandard, or doubtful are reported as criticized. These classifications are based on regulatory definitions and generally represent finance receivables and loans within our portfolio that have a higher default risk or have already defaulted. These finance receivables and loans require additional monitoring and review including specific actions to mitigate our potential loss. 

Total criticized exposures decreased $516 million from December 31, 2022, to $2.1 billion at December 31, 2023. The decrease in total criticized exposures was primarily driven by a decrease in Special Mention loans within the commercial and industrial portfolio class of our Automotive Finance and Corporate Finance operations. Total criticized exposures were 6.2% and 9.1% of total commercial finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, representing strong overall credit performance as the commercial loan portfolio continues to grow. 

The following table presents the percentage of total commercial criticized finance receivables and loans by industry concentration based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 Industry Automotive 54.0 &#160; % 53.4 % Electronics 13.4 &#160; 11.9 Services 12.8 &#160; 6.5 Other 19.8 &#160; 28.2 Total commercial criticized finance receivables and loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Allowance for Loan Losses 

Our quantitatively determined allowance under CECL is impacted by certain forecasted economic factors as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For example, our consumer automotive allowance for loan losses is most sensitive to state-level unemployment rates. Our process for determining the allowance for loan losses considers a borrower&#8217;s willingness and ability to pay and considers other factors, including loan modification programs. In addition to our quantitative allowance for loan losses, we also incorporate qualitative adjustments that may relate to idiosyncratic risks, weather-related events, changes in current economic conditions that may not be reflected in quantitatively derived results, and other macroeconomic uncertainty. We also monitor model performance, using model error and related assessments, and we may incorporate qualitative reserves to adjust our quantitatively determined allowance if we observe deterioration 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

in model performance. Additionally, we perform a sensitivity analysis of our allowance utilizing varying macroeconomic scenarios, as described further within Critical Accounting Estimates &#8212; Allowance for Credit Losses within the MD&#38;A. 

Through December 31, 2023, forecasted economic variables incorporated into our quantitative allowance processes were updated to include the current macroeconomic environment and our future expectations reflecting slow GDP growth in the near term. This included (but was not limited to) the following: the unemployment rate rising to approximately 4.5% in the fourth quarter of 2024, before reverting to the historical mean of approximately 6.0% by the fourth quarter of 2026, GDP growth slowing as measured on a quarter-over-quarter seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis through the second quarter of 2024, before reverting to the historical mean of approximately 2.0% by the fourth quarter of 2026, and increases in new light vehicle sales on a seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis of approximately 16 million units through the fourth quarter of 2024, before reverting to the historical mean of 15 million units by the fourth quarter of 2026. Additionally, we maintain a qualitative allowance framework to account for ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the macroeconomic environment (including the impact of inflationary pressures) that could adversely impact frequency of loss and LGD. Our overall allowance for loan losses decreased $124 million from the prior year to $3.6 billion at December 31, 2023, representing 2.6% and 2.7% as a percentage of total finance receivables at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following tables present an analysis of the activity in the allowance for loan losses on finance receivables and loans for the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other (a) Total consumer Commercial Total Allowance at January 1, 2023 $ 3,020 &#160; $ 27 &#160; $ 426 &#160; $ 3,473 &#160; $ 238 &#160; $ 3,711 &#160; Charge-offs (b) (2,284) (3) (303) (2,590) (130) (2,720) Recoveries 793 &#160; 9 &#160; 25 &#160; 827 &#160; 6 &#160; 833 &#160; Net charge-offs (1,491) 6 &#160; (278) (1,763) (124) (1,887) Write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale (c) (d) (41) &#8212; &#160; (174) (215) &#8212; &#160; (215) Provision for credit losses Provision due to change in portfolio size 80 &#160; (1) 57 &#160; 136 &#160; 16 &#160; 152 &#160; Provision due to incremental charge-offs 1,491 &#160; (6) 278 &#160; 1,763 &#160; 124 &#160; 1,887 &#160; Provision due to all other factors 24 &#160; (4) (16) 4 &#160; (64) (60) Total provision for credit losses (e) 1,595 &#160; (11) 319 &#160; 1,903 &#160; 76 &#160; 1,979 &#160; Other &#8212; &#160; (1) &#8212; &#160; (1) &#8212; &#160; (1) 

Allowance at December 31, 2023 

$ 3,083 &#160; $ 21 &#160; $ 293 &#160; $ 3,397 &#160; $ 190 &#160; $ 3,587 &#160; Net charge-offs to average finance receivables and loans outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2023 

1.8 &#160; % &#8212; &#160; % 7.1 &#160; % 1.6 &#160; % 0.4 &#160; % 1.4 &#160; % Net charge-offs and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale to average finance receivables and loans outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2023 

1.8 &#160; % &#8212; &#160; % 11.6 &#160; % 1.8 &#160; % 0.4 &#160; % 1.5 &#160; % Allowance for loan losses to total nonperforming finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2023 (f) 

273.0 &#160; % 39.6 &#160; % 317.8 &#160; % 266.5 &#160; % 160.2 &#160; % 257.4 &#160; % Nonaccrual loans to finance receivables and loans outstanding at December 31, 2023 

1.3 &#160; % 0.3 &#160; % 4.6 &#160; % 1.2 &#160; % 0.3 &#160; % 1.0 &#160; % Ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs at December 31, 2023 

2.1 &#160; (3.7) 1.1 &#160; 1.9 &#160; 1.5 &#160; 1.9 &#160; Ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs and write-downs from transfers to held-for-sale at December 31, 2023 

2.0 &#160; (3.7) 0.6 &#160; 1.7 &#160; 1.5 &#160; 1.7 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes Credit Card and Personal Lending. 

(b) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our charge-off policies. 

(c) Consumer automotive includes a $41 million reduction of allowance from the sales of retained interests related to securitizations during 2023, resulting in the deconsolidation of the assets and liabilities from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

(d) Consumer other includes a $174 million reduction of allowance from transfers to held-for-sale related to Personal Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(e) Excludes $11 million of benefit for credit losses related to our reserve for unfunded commitments. The liability related to the reserve for unfunded commitments is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, excluding $5 million related to Personal Lending, which was transferred to liabilities of operations held-for-sale as of December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

(f) Coverage percentages are based on the allowance for loan losses related to finance receivables and loans excluding those loans held at fair value as a percentage of the amortized cost. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other (a) Total consumer Commercial Total Allowance at January 1, 2022 $ 2,769 $ 27 $ 221 $ 3,017 $ 250 $ 3,267 Charge-offs (b) (1,434) (3) (133) (1,570) (58) (1,628) Recoveries 649 12 12 673 3 676 Net charge-offs (785) 9 (121) (897) (55) (952) Provision due to change in portfolio size 196 3 182 381 33 414 Provision due to incremental charge-offs 785 (9) 121 897 55 952 Provision due to all other factors 55 (2) 23 76 (46) 30 Total provision for credit losses (c) 1,036 (8) 326 1,354 42 1,396 Other &#8212; (1) &#8212; (1) 1 &#8212; 

Allowance at December 31, 2022 

$ 3,020 $ 27 $ 426 $ 3,473 $ 238 $ 3,711 Net charge-offs to average finance receivables and loans outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2022 

1.0 % &#8212; % 4.4 % 0.9 % 0.2 % 0.7 % Allowance for loan losses to total nonperforming finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2022 (d) 

254.3 % 54.3 % n/m 268.7 % 147.4 % 255.2 % Nonaccrual loans to finance receivables and loans outstanding at December 31, 2022 

1.4 % 0.3 % 1.6 % 1.2 % 0.6 % 1.1 % Ratio of allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs at December 31, 2022 

3.8 (3.0) 3.5 3.9 4.3 3.9 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Includes Credit Card and Personal Lending. 

(b) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our charge-off policies. 

(c) Excludes $3 million of provision for credit losses related to our reserve for unfunded commitments. The liability related to the reserve for unfunded commitments is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

(d) Coverage percentages are based on the allowance for loan losses related to finance receivables and loans excluding those loans held at fair value as a percentage of the amortized cost. 

The allowance for consumer loan losses as of December 31, 2023, decreased $76 million compared to December 31, 2022, reflecting a decrease of $133 million in the consumer other allowance, along with a decrease of $6 million in our consumer mortgage allowance, partially offset by an increase of $63 million in the consumer automotive allowance. The decrease in the consumer other allowance was primarily driven by the transfer of the Personal Lending portfolio to held-for-sale. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The increase in our consumer automotive allowance was primarily driven by portfolio growth, partially offset by a reduction of allowance from the deconsolidation of securitizations during 2023. 

The allowance for commercial loan losses as of December 31, 2023, decreased $48 million compared to December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by the charge-off of specific reserves in our Corporate Finance operations, partially offset by portfolio growth in our Automotive Finance operations. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Provision for Loan Losses 

The following table summarizes the provision for loan losses by loan portfolio class. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Consumer automotive $ 1,595 &#160; $ 1,036 $ 104 Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance (3) 3 (1) Mortgage &#8212; Legacy (8) (11) (13) Total consumer mortgage (11) (8) (14) Consumer other Personal Lending 102 &#160; 161 55 Credit Card 217 &#160; 165 108 Total consumer other 319 &#160; 326 163 Total consumer 1,903 &#160; 1,354 253 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 23 &#160; 1 (30) Other 56 &#160; 46 39 Commercial real estate (3) (5) (21) Total commercial 76 &#160; 42 (12) Total provision for loan losses (a) $ 1,979 &#160; $ 1,396 $ 241 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes $11 million of benefit for credit losses related to our reserve for unfunded commitments during the year ended December 31, 2023, and $3 million of provision for credit losses related to our reserve for unfunded commitments during the year ended December 31, 2022. 

The provision for consumer credit losses increased $549 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in provision for consumer credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by higher net charge-offs across our consumer portfolios. 

The provision for commercial credit losses increased $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in provision for commercial credit losses during the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily driven by reserve reductions in the year ended December 31, 2022, related to reserves established at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic within our Corporate Finance operations that did not reoccur, in addition to higher provisions on specific exposures within our Automotive Finance operations during the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Allowance for Loan Losses by Type 

The following table summarizes the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan portfolio class. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

Allowance for loan losses Allowance as a % of loans outstanding Allowance as a % of total allowance for loan losses Allowance for loan losses Allowance as a % of loans outstanding Allowance as a % of total allowance for loan losses Consumer automotive $ 3,083 &#160; 3.7 &#160; 85.9 &#160; $ 3,020 3.6 81.4 Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 18 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 0.5 &#160; 22 0.1 0.6 Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 3 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 5 1.8 0.1 Total consumer mortgage 21 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 0.6 &#160; 27 0.1 0.7 Consumer other Personal Lending (a) &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 194 9.8 5.2 Credit Card 293 &#160; 14.7 &#160; 8.2 &#160; 232 14.5 6.3 Total consumer other 293 &#160; 14.7 &#160; 8.2 &#160; 426 11.9 11.5 Total consumer loans 3,397 &#160; 3.2 &#160; 94.7 &#160; 3,473 3.3 93.6 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 15 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 0.4 &#160; 14 0.1 0.4 Other 142 &#160; 1.5 &#160; 4.0 &#160; 188 2.1 5.0 Commercial real estate 

33 &#160; 0.5 &#160; 0.9 &#160; 36 0.7 1.0 Total commercial loans 190 &#160; 0.6 &#160; 5.3 &#160; 238 0.8 6.4 Total allowance for loan losses $ 3,587 &#160; 2.6 &#160; 100.0 &#160; $ 3,711 2.7 100.0 ##TABLE_END

(a) Personal lending assets were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Insurance/Underwriting Risk 

Underwriting risk represents the risk of loss or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities due to inadequate pricing and reserving assumptions. Insurance risk also includes event risk, which is synonymous with pure risk, or hazard risk, and presents no chance of gain, only of loss. The underwriting of our products, or the assumption of insurance risk through reinsurance, includes an assessment of the risk to determine acceptability and categorization for appropriate pricing. The acceptability of a particular risk is based on expected losses, expenses, and other factors specific to the product in question. For example, with respect to VSCs, considerations include the quality of the vehicles produced, the price of replacement parts, repair labor rates, and new model introductions. With respect to our vehicle inventory insurance product, considerations include the dealer&#8217;s loss history and loss control practices, as well as the geographic exposure to weather events and natural disasters, among other factors. We also assume risks through reinsurance arrangements, where a managing general agent or third party provides certain functions for an insurance product or program which may include, but is not limited to, premium and claims administration and reporting, binding of policies and other customer servicing functions, or underwriting services in exchange for a commission. Where underwriting and risk acceptance is delegated to third parties, we will consider the appropriateness of the third party&#8217;s underwriting guidelines and their ability to evaluate and assess risks within the context of those guidelines and routinely monitor arrangements with such parties. 

To support risk mitigation activities, we utilize a system of controls and governance including the use of a risk appetite framework to govern the amount and types of insurance risks we take, including the consideration of concentration risks, volatility of products, and a number of other factors. We also utilize a New Product Committee, Reserving Committee, Underwriting Committee, and Risk Management Committee to monitor, manage, and mitigate insurance risks, including consideration of pricing adequacy and risk of unfavorable loss development. 

We mitigate the risk of losses by the active management of claim settlement activities using experienced claims personnel and the evaluation of current period reported claims. Losses for these events may be compared to prior claims experience, expected claims, or loss expenses from similar incidents to assess the reasonableness of incurred losses. For business assumed through reinsurance, we may rely on third parties for claim adjudication or the estimation of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. Reliance on third parties inherently includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance lines of business, which may include lags in reporting or different assessments of reserve adequacy. In order to mitigate such risks, we regularly review the performance of such business assumed through reinsurance and our carried loss reserves may differ from reserves reported to us from third parties if deemed appropriate. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

In some instances, reinsurance is used to reduce the risk associated with volatile business lines, such as catastrophe risk in vehicle inventory insurance. Our vehicle inventory insurance product is covered by aggregate excess-of-loss protection, which provides coverage for the accumulation of weather-related losses that exceed pre-determined retention levels. In addition, loss control techniques such as storm path monitoring to assist dealers in preparing for severe weather help to mitigate loss potential. The level of reinsurance utilized will depend on the assessment of market pricing for such protection, the size and composition of our insured risks and our overall risk appetite. In certain cases, we choose not to obtain reinsurance protection if the cost is perceived to outweigh the benefits of such protection. 

In accordance with industry and accounting practices and applicable insurance laws and regulatory requirements, we maintain loss reserves for reported losses, losses incurred but not reported, loss adjustment expenses, and unearned premium reserves for contracts in force. The adequacy of our estimated reserves and changes to the estimated values of reserves are routinely monitored by credentialed actuaries. Our reserves are regularly reviewed by management and subject to various governance and controls; however, since the reserves are estimates based on numerous assumptions, the ultimate liability may differ from the amount estimated. 

Market Risk 

Our financing, investing, and insurance activities give rise to market risk, or the potential change in the value of our assets (including securities, assets held-for-sale, loans and operating leases) and liabilities (including deposits and debt) due to movements in market variables, such as interest rates, spreads, foreign-exchange rates, equity prices, off-lease vehicle prices, and other equity investments. 

The impact of changes in benchmark interest rates on our balance sheet represents an exposure to market risk and can affect our expected earnings. We primarily use interest rate derivatives to manage our interest rate risk exposure. 

During 2023, the Federal Reserve further increased the federal funds target range to 5.25&#8211;5.50% in response to elevated inflation levels. Increased federal funds target rates led to pricing impacts across the balance sheet. Refer to the section below titled Net Financing Revenue Sensitivity Analysis for additional information on how future rate changes may impact net financing revenue. 

The fair value of our spread-sensitive assets is also exposed to spread risk. Spread is the amount of additional return over the benchmark interest rates that an investor would demand for taking exposure to primarily credit and liquidity risk of an instrument. Generally, an increase in spreads would result in a decrease in fair value measurement. 

We are also exposed to marginal foreign-currency risk primarily from Canadian denominated assets and liabilities. We enter into foreign currency hedges to mitigate foreign exchange risk. 

We have exposure to changes in the value of equity securities with readily determinable fair values primarily related to our Insurance operations. For such equity securities, we use equity derivatives to manage our exposure to equity price fluctuations. 

As part of our CRA program, we make investments in CRA-eligible funds that do not qualify for LIHTCs. Many of these CRA funds feature private equity or venture capital structures and are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. We recognize our share of the investee&#8217;s earnings based on the performance of the funds. We recognized a loss of $25 million related to these investments during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to broader real estate market trends adversely impacting certain real estate funds. There were no indications of impairment within our portfolio of CRA-eligible funds as of December 31, 2023. 

In addition, we are exposed to changes in the value of other nonmarketable equity investments without readily determinable fair market values, which may cause volatility in our earnings. 

As of December 31, 2023, we had $3.8 billion of cumulative net unrealized losses on our investment securities. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded $260 million of net unrealized gains on our available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) within our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss), and are generally not realized unless we sell the securities prior to their stated maturity date. In the fourth quarter of 2023, non-agency mortgage-backed residential securities with a fair value of $3.6 billion were transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity. At the time of the transfer, $911 million of unrealized losses were retained in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The transfer of these securities to held-to-maturity reduces our exposure to fluctuations in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our Consolidated Balance Sheet that can result from unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities due to changes in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, we did not have the intent to sell the available-for-sale securities with an unrealized loss position and we do not believe it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. For the year ended December 31, 2023, management determined that there were no expected credit losses for available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position. Refer to Note 8 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

The composition of our balance sheet, including shorter-duration fixed-rate consumer automotive loans and variable-rate commercial loans, along with our primary funding source of retail deposits, partially mitigates market risk. Additionally, we maintain risk-management controls that measure and monitor market risk using a variety of analytical techniques including market value and sensitivity analysis. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. For information regarding our insured and uninsured deposit liabilities, refer to the section below titled Response to Banking Industry Failures. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis 

The following table presents a fair value sensitivity analysis of our assets and liabilities using isolated hypothetical movements in specific market rates. The analysis assumes adverse instantaneous, parallel shifts in market-exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and equity prices. Additionally, since only adverse fair value impacts are included, the natural offset between asset and liability rate sensitivities that arise within a diversified balance sheet, such as ours, may not be considered. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Financial instruments exposed to changes in: Interest rates Estimated fair value (a) (a) Effect of 10% adverse change in rates (a) (a) Foreign-currency exchange rates Estimated fair value $ 357 &#160; $ 394 Effect of 10% adverse change in rates (14) (10) Equity prices Estimated fair value (b) $ 928 &#160; $ 819 Effect of 10% decrease in prices (93) (79) ##TABLE_END

(a) Refer to the section below titled Net Financing Revenue Sensitivity Analysis for information on the interest rate sensitivity of our financial instruments. 

(b) Primarily includes $810 million and $681 million of equity securities at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, and $102 million and $123 million of equity securities without a readily determinable fair value at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. For additional information on equity securities without a readily determinable fair value, refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 

Net Financing Revenue Sensitivity Analysis 

Interest rate risk represents one of our most significant exposures to market risk. We actively monitor the level of exposure to movements in interest rates and take actions to mitigate adverse impacts these movements may have on future earnings. We use a sensitivity analysis of net financing revenue as our primary metric to measure and manage the interest rate risk of our financial instruments. 

The execution of our current business strategy generally results in shorter-duration, fixed-rate consumer automotive loans comprising the majority of our assets and liquid, floating-rate retail deposits comprising the majority of our liabilities. This, in turn, results in a structurally liability sensitive balance sheet as our floating-rate retail deposits reprice faster than our fixed-rate consumer automotive loans when interest rates change. We prepare forward-looking baseline forecasts of pretax net financing revenue as well as anticipated future business growth, actions to alter our asset/liability positioning, and interest rates based on the implied forward curve. The analysis is highly dependent upon a variety of assumptions, one of the most significant being the repricing characteristics of retail deposits with both contractual and non-contractual maturities. We monitor industry and competitive repricing activity along with other business and market factors when developing deposit pricing assumptions. 

Modeled simulations are then used to assess changes in pretax net financing revenue in multiple interest rate scenarios relative to the baseline forecast. The changes in net financing revenue relative to the baseline are defined as the sensitivity. Our simulations incorporate contractual cash flows and assumed repricing characteristics for assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures and incorporate the assumed effects of changing interest rates on the prepayment and attrition rates of certain assets and liabilities. Our simulations do not assume any specific future actions are taken to mitigate the impacts of changing interest rates. 

These simulations measure the potential changes in our pretax net financing revenue over the following 12 months. We test a number of alternative rate scenarios, including immediate and gradual parallel shocks to the implied forward curve. We also evaluate nonparallel shocks to interest rates and stresses to certain term points on the yield curve in isolation to capture and monitor a variety of risks. 

Simulation results are driven by underlying models and assumptions that are based on trend behavior and other historical information. The underlying models and assumptions, including retail deposit pricing, are regularly monitored and evaluated, and may be updated accordingly as observed trends materialize. As a result, if future trends or behaviors deviate from those reflected in the models, actual sensitivities may vary&#8212;perhaps significantly&#8212;from those that are modeled. For example, the pace and magnitude of changes in the federal-funds rate during the last two years has challenged models like ours whose historical data is largely derived from a more stable rate environment. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we updated our liquid deposit repricing assumptions, increasing our liability sensitivity to instantaneous rate increases. Actual sensitivities may differ for other reasons as well, including unplanned changes in balance sheet composition, timing of asset and liability repricing, the yield curve, customer behavior, macroeconomic conditions, the competitive environment, and management strategies. Accordingly, we do not treat the sensitivities as forecasts of net financing revenue but instead use them as a tool in managing interest rate risk. 

In a stable rate scenario that assumes spot rates as of December 31, 2023, remain constant through the simulation, net financing revenue over the next 12 months is expected to increase by $16 million versus the baseline forecast, due to the shape of the implied forward curve. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the pretax dollar impact to baseline forecasted net financing revenue over the next 12 months assuming various parallel shocks to the implied forward curve as of December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Gradual (a) Instantaneous Gradual (a) Instantaneous Change in interest rates ($ in millions) ($ in millions) +200 basis points $ 150 &#160; $ 23 &#160; $ 18 $ (76) 

+100 basis points 

88 &#160; 3 &#160; 3 (37) -100 basis points (96) (107) (21) 21 ##TABLE_END

(a) Gradual changes in interest rates are recognized over 12 months. 

Since December 31, 2022, the implied forward curve has further inverted as market expectations of short-term rates have increased. During 2023, our floating-rate commercial balances and cash balances increased, and we saw a shift from liquid deposits to CDs. Additionally, we increased our pay-fixed swap position, and incrementally added interest rate floor contracts that will provide benefit in certain lower-rate scenarios. The impact of these changes is reflected in our baseline net financing revenue forecast. As of December 31, 2023, we view the balance sheet as being modestly asset-sensitive in the near-term to changes in interest rates, as we expect the assumed repricing of our assets and pay-fixed swaps to modestly outpace the assumed repricing of our liabilities. Within the 12-month horizon, we expect the balance sheet to revert to liability sensitive. 

Our interest-rate risk position is influenced by the impact of hedging activity, which primarily consists of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate assets and fixed-rate debt instruments. Additionally, we use interest rate floor contracts designated as cash flow hedges on certain floating-rate assets. The size, maturity, and mix of our hedging activities are adjusted as our balance sheet, ALM objectives, and the interest rate environment evolve over time. Our hedging strategies, however, are not designed to eliminate all interest-rate risk, and we were adversely affected from rising interest rates in 2022 and 2023. 

Operating Lease Residual Risk Management 

We are exposed to residual risk on vehicles in the consumer operating lease portfolio. This operating lease residual risk represents the possibility that the actual proceeds realized upon the sale of returned vehicles will be lower than the projection of these values used in establishing the pricing at lease inception. Our operating lease portfolio, net of accumulated depreciation was $9.2 billion and $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. The expected lease residual value of our operating lease portfolio at scheduled termination was $7.4 billion and $8.3 billion as of December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. For information on our valuation of automotive operating lease residuals including periodic revisions through adjustments to depreciation expense based on current and forecasted market conditions, refer to the section titled Critical Accounting Estimates &#8212; Valuation of Automotive Operating Lease Assets and Residuals within this MD&#38;A. 

&#8226; Priced residual value projections &#160;&#8212; At contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation uses a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and unanticipated shifts in used vehicle supply, as well as expert judgment. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense over the remaining life of the contract as necessary. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. 

&#8226; Remarketing abilities &#160;&#8212; Our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and the proceeds realized from vehicle sales. Vehicles can be remarketed through auction (internet and physical), sale to dealer, sale to lessee, and other methods. The results within these channels vary, with physical auction typically resulting in the lowest-priced outcome. 

&#8226; Manufacturer vehicle and marketing programs &#160;&#8212; Automotive manufacturers influence operating lease residual results in the following ways: 

&#9702; The brand image of automotive manufacturers and consumer demand for their products affects residual risk. 

&#9702; The discontinuation of, or stylistic changes to, a certain make or model may affect the value of existing vehicles. 

&#9702; Automotive manufacturer marketing programs may influence the used vehicle market for those vehicles through programs such as incentives on new vehicles, programs designed to encourage lessees to terminate their operating leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new vehicle (referred to as pull-ahead programs), and special rate used vehicle programs. 

&#8226; Used vehicle market &#160;&#8212; We have exposure to changes in used vehicle prices. General economic conditions, used vehicle supply and demand, and new vehicle availability and market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Operating Lease Vehicle Terminations and Remarketing 

The following table summarizes the volume of operating lease terminations and average gain per vehicle, as well as our methods of vehicle sales at lease termination, stated as a percentage of total operating lease vehicle disposals. 

##TABLE_START Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 

Off-lease vehicles terminated (in units) 

109,756 &#160; 110,634 127,708 

Average gain per vehicle ($ per unit) 

$ 1,923 &#160; $ 1,533 $ 2,693 Method of vehicle sales Sale to dealer, lessee, and other 76 &#160; % 88 % 64 % Auction Internet 18 &#160; 9 29 Physical 6 &#160; 3 7 ##TABLE_END

We recognized an average gain per vehicle of $1,923 for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to an average gain per vehicle of $1,533 and $2,693 in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in remarketing performance during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022, was primarily due to normalizing volume trends in the contractually priced buyout channels. Off-lease vehicles sold to lessees and dealers decreased 14% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022. 

Operating Lease Portfolio Mix 

The following table presents the concentration of our outstanding operating leases exposures by OEM. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Stellantis 77 &#160; % 78 % 81 % GM 5 &#160; 4 3 Other OEM-franchised dealers 18 &#160; 18 16 ##TABLE_END

The following table presents the mix of operating lease assets by vehicle type, based on volume of units outstanding. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Sport utility vehicle 68 &#160; % 63 % 59 % Truck 28 &#160; 31 34 Car 4 &#160; 6 7 ##TABLE_END

Business/Strategic Risk 

Business/strategic risk is embedded in every facet of our organization and is one of our primary risk types. It is the risk resulting from the pursuit of business activities that turn out to be unsuccessful due to a variety of both controllable and non-controllable factors. We aim to mitigate this risk within our business lines through portfolio diversification, product innovations to meet ever-changing customer expectations, risk and control assessments on new products and services prior to launch, monitoring of the execution of our strategic and capital plan, and a focus on efficiency and cost control. 

Our strategic plan is reviewed and approved annually by our Board, as are the capital plan and financial business plan. With oversight by our Board, executive management and business lines seek to execute our strategic plan within the risk appetite approved by the RC. The executive management team continuously monitors business performance throughout the year to assess strategic risk and identify early warning signals so that risks can be proactively managed. Executive management regularly reviews actual performance versus the plan, updates our Board via reporting routines, and implements changes as deemed appropriate. 

Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and recovery and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by our Board as required. At the business level, as we introduce new products and services, we proactively assess the impact on our risk profile and then monitor performance relative to expectations for time periods commensurate with the risk-based assessment. With oversight by our Board, executive management evaluates changes to the financial forecast and risk, capital, and liquidity positions throughout the year and takes actions to mitigate risks accordingly. Ally&#8217;s risk management and planning routines help to ensure strategic objectives complement the enterprise&#8217;s capital management priorities, including prudent balance sheet growth, meeting internal and regulatory capital requirements, and managing to an appropriate level of excess capital. 

Reputation Risk 

Reputation risk is the risk arising from negative public opinion on Ally&#8217;s business practices, whether true or not, that could cause a decline in customer satisfaction, brand sentiment, our customer base, revenue, or result in litigation towards Ally. Reputation risk may result from many of our activities, including those related to the management of our business/strategic, operational, and credit risks. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

We maintain an enterprise-wide Reputation Risk Management program that establishes the requirements for managing reputation risk. We manage reputation risk through established policies and controls in our businesses and risk-management processes to mitigate reputation risks in a timely manner through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputation risk events. We have established processes and procedures to respond to events that give rise to reputation risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputation risks. Primary responsibility for the identification, escalation, and resolution of reputation risk issues resides with our business lines. 

Our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values and &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy further strengthen our efforts to mitigate reputational risks by promoting a transparent culture so that any associate, at any time, can and should call attention to risks that need to be addressed and taken into account. Our organization and governance structures provide oversight of reputation risks, and key risk indicators are reported regularly and directly to management and the RC, which provide primary oversight of reputation risk. 

Operational Risk 

Operational risk is the risk of loss or harm arising from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events and is inherent in all of our risk-generating activities. Such risk can manifest in various ways, including errors, business interruptions, and inappropriate behavior of employees, and can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to us. Operational risk includes business disruption risk, fraud risk, human capital risk, legal risk, model risk, process execution and management risk, and supplier (third party) risk. 

&#8226; Business disruption risk &#8212; The risk of significant disruption to our operations resulting from natural disasters, technology outages, or other incidents and crisis events, such as pandemics. 

&#8226; Fraud risk &#8212; The risk from deliberate misrepresentation or concealment of information material to a transaction with the intent to deceive another and that is reasonably relied on or used in decision making. Fraud can occur internally (for example, employees) or externally (for example, criminal activity, third-party suppliers). 

&#8226; Human capital risk &#8212; The risk caused by high turnover, inadequate or improper staffing levels, departure/unavailability of key personnel, or inadequate training and includes our exposure to worker&#8217;s compensation and employment litigation. Refer to the Item 1. Human Capital &#38; Additional Information for further discussion. 

&#8226; Legal risk &#8212; The risk arising from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. 

&#8226; Process execution and management risk &#8212; The risk caused by failure to execute or adhere to policies, standards, procedures, processes, controls, and activities as designed and documented. 

&#8226; Supplier (third party) risk &#8212; The risk associated with third-party suppliers and their delivery of products or services and effect on overall business performance. This includes a supplier&#8217;s failure to comply with information technology requirements, information and physical security, laws, rules, regulations, and legal agreements. 

To monitor and mitigate such risk, we maintain a system of policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. This framework employs practices and tools designed to maintain risk identification, risk governance, risk and control assessment, risk testing and monitoring, and transparency through risk reporting mechanisms. The goal is to maintain operational risk at appropriate levels based on our financial strength, the characteristics of the businesses and the markets in which we operate, and the related competitive and regulatory environment. 

Model Risk 

Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model assumptions, inputs, outputs, and reports. This risk may include fundamental errors within the model that produce inaccurate outputs or that the model is used incorrectly or inappropriately. 

Ally business lines and support functions use models to inform business decisions over a wide range of activities, including estimation of credit losses, stress testing and scenario analysis, credit underwriting, balance sheet management, risk management, insurance risk, and identification of potential fraud and money laundering events. We manage risk through a comprehensive and risk-sensitive framework designed to establish expectations and roles and responsibilities for all model stakeholders. An independent MRM function establishes and maintains governance and oversight over all models throughout the model lifecycle that includes development, implementation, use, validation, ongoing monitoring, recalibration, and decommission. 

The model risk management function&#8217;s specific responsibility includes maintaining a centralized inventory of all models in production, under development, or recently retired; performing independent validation and annual review testing to verify that models are built as intended, conceptually sound, and appropriate for their intended use; monitoring ongoing model performance to identify potential model degradation; and producing risk appetite metrics and key risk indicators for consumption by Board-level and management-level risk committees. The MVG within the MRM function is a team of risk professionals with advanced degrees in the areas of economics, econometrics, mathematical finance, and statistics. MVG also has subject matter expertise in model validation, model development, analytics, data science, artificial intelligence, and anti-money laundering and fraud detection. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The Model Risk Committee is a management committee responsible for monitoring Ally&#8217;s model risk exposure, and making decisions on changes to the Enterprise Model Risk Management Policy and risk appetite metrics related to model risk. It has a voting membership that includes the Chief Risk Officer, model risk management function senior leaders, and executives from independent risk management and business line risk management. Key model risk updates and risk appetite metrics are also reported to the Executive Risk Management Committee and the RC. 

Information Technology/Cybersecurity Risk 

Risk Management and Strategy 

Information technology/cybersecurity is one of our primary risks, which we define as risks resulting from the failure of, or insufficiency in, information technology (for example, a system outage) or intentional or accidental unauthorized access, sharing, removal, tampering, or disposal of company and customer data or records. We and our service providers rely extensively on digital communications, data management, and other operating systems and infrastructure to conduct our business and operations. Failures or disruptions to these systems, including cloud-based services, or infrastructure from cyberattacks or other events may impede our ability to conduct business and operations and may result in business, reputational, financial, regulatory, or other harm. We and other financial institutions continue to be the target of various cyberattacks, including through phishing, the introduction of malware, denial-of-service, or other means. These cyberattacks often are intended to disrupt the operations of financial institutions or obtain confidential, proprietary, or other information or assets of Ally, our customers, employees, or other third parties with whom we transact. Refer to the Risk Factors section for additional information on our information technology/cybersecurity risks. 

Information technology/cybersecurity risk management is part of our broader enterprise risk-management framework described earlier in Risk Management , including the multiple layers of defense described there. We seek to minimize the occurrence and impact of unauthorized access, disruption, alteration, or compromise of our systems and information through real-time review and monitoring of our cybersecurity-risk exposures and the implementation of processes and controls to manage those risks. In addition, we make investments in people, processes, and technology to assist us in our efforts to prevent, monitor, and respond to cybersecurity incidents. 

More specifically, information technology/cybersecurity operational metrics and data are monitored on an ongoing basis and assessed against established risk-appetite limits. An inventory of information technology/cybersecurity processes, risks, and controls is maintained, which is derived utilizing regulatory and industry guidance, including the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Information Technology Examination Handbook and the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework. This inventory is used to assist in the identification and assessment of information technology/cybersecurity risks. In addition, cybersecurity teams managed by our CISO are responsible for the ongoing assessment of information technology/cybersecurity risks that pertain to their areas of responsibility. 

We have adopted a CSRP, which provides a structured approach for our response to cybersecurity incidents. The CSRP describes internal roles and responsibilities and describes the operational coordination among internal cybersecurity teams, application owners, business partners and other stake holders to detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents promptly, mitigate the impact of them, and resume normal operations. Our business-continuity and crisis-management plans also address cybersecurity incidents as appropriate. 

We regularly assess threats and vulnerabilities to our environment utilizing various resources including independent third-party assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of our layered system of controls. This includes routinely engaging third-party experts to perform comprehensive institutional-wide simulations for senior management, which evaluates our preparedness to respond to crisis-level events, including cybersecurity incidents. Third parties are also engaged to conduct cybersecurity penetration testing to assist us in identifying system vulnerabilities. We actively partner with other industry peers in order to share knowledge and information to further our security environment and invest in training and employee awareness regarding cyber-related risks. 

Our business lines are actively engaged in overseeing our third-party service providers. Our Enterprise TPRM Policy establishes requirements and practices used to oversee and manage the activities of third parties with whom Ally has a relationship, under which we identify, measure, monitor, and manage third-party risk (including information technology/cybersecurity risks) in alignment with our strategic objectives and in compliance with applicable law. Any identified threats, vulnerabilities, or cybersecurity incidents are addressed as appropriate through the CSRP or our business-continuity and crisis-management plans, as described earlier. 

Cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls, processes, and systems to protect our technology infrastructure, customer information, and other proprietary information or assets remain a critical and ongoing priority. We recognize that cyber-related risks continue to evolve, including through the emergence of artificial intelligence, and have become increasingly sophisticated. As a result we continuously evaluate the adequacy of our preventive and detective measures. As a further protective measure, we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to terms and conditions, may cover certain aspects of cybersecurity and information risks. However, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses. 

We have not identified risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Ally or its business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. However, we face ongoing cybersecurity threats and there can be no assurances we will not be materially impacted in the future. Refer to the Risk Factors section for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Governance 

Our Board is actively involved in the oversight of Ally&#8217;s information technology/cybersecurity risk-management program, including through the RC and TC. The RC has primary oversight responsibility for our risk-management framework and sets the risk appetite across Ally. The TC assists the Board in overseeing information-technology and information-security risks (including cybersecurity) and our management of the risks commensurate with our structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size. To this end, the TC periodically reviews and approves policies addressing information-technology and information-security risks and reviews reports and trends on Ally&#8217;s information-technology and information-security risks&#8212;including those involving cybersecurity, data management and protection, and crisis management&#8212;and receives reports from management on its actions to assess, monitor, and control those risks. The RC reviews reports and other information from the TC in approving our information-technology and information-security risk appetite and in exercising oversight of our independent risk-management program. Senior management briefs the RC, the TC, or the Board on information-technology and information-security matters at least quarterly and identified cybersecurity incidents are reported to the Board as deemed appropriate pursuant to our business-continuity and crisis-management plans. 

Risk-oriented management committees, the executive leadership team, and our associates identify and monitor current and emerging risks and manage those risks within our risk appetite. More specifically, our Enterprise Risk Management Committee is responsible for supporting the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s oversight of senior management&#8217;s responsibility to execute on our strategy within our risk appetite set by the RC, and the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s implementation of our independent risk-management. Our Technology and Security Risk Management Committee, which reports to our Enterprise Risk Management Committee, provides oversight of senior management&#8217;s responsibility to manage and measure information technology/cybersecurity risks against the established risk appetite and monitors compliance with legal requirements and regulatory commitments. For additional information on the role of management in monitoring the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents, refer to the Risk Management and Strategy section above. 

Our CIDDO, who brings to Ally more than 20 years of technology leadership experience in complex businesses, is responsible for overseeing all of Ally&#8217;s technical and digital capabilities, including cybersecurity and infrastructure. Our CISO, who reports to the CIDDO, is principally responsible for managing and implementing our cybersecurity program. Our CIDDO and CISO collectively possess substantial expertise in the areas of information technology, information security, and cybersecurity risk management. Our CISO, who has over 27 years of experience within the financial-services industry, is supported by employees involved in the management of information security/cybersecurity risks that possess experience across a variety of areas. 

Compliance Risk 

Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to the banking organization (applicable rules and standards). Examples of such risks include compliance with regulations set forth by banking agencies including fair and responsible banking, anti-money laundering, or community reinvestment act, risks associated with offering our products or services, or risks associated with deviating from internal policies and procedures including those that are established to promote sound risk-management and internal-control practices. Compliance risk also includes fiduciary risk, which includes risks arising from our duty to exercise loyalty, act in the best interest of our clients, and care for assets according to an appropriate standard of care. This risk generally exists to the extent that we exercise discretion in managing assets on behalf of a customer. 

We recognize that an effective compliance program, which includes driving a culture of compliance, plays a key role in managing and overseeing compliance risk and that a proactive compliance environment and program are essential to help meet various legal, regulatory, or other requirements or expectations. To manage compliance risk, we maintain a system of policies, change-management protocols, control frameworks, and other formal governance structures. Our compliance function, which is led by the Chief Compliance Officer who reports to our CEO, provides independent, enterprise-wide oversight of consumer and customer-related compliance-risk exposures and related risk-management practices. The Chief Compliance Officer has the authority and responsibility for the oversight and administration of our consumer and customer-related compliance program, which includes ongoing reporting of compliance-associated risk matters to our Board, the RC, and various management committees established to govern compliance-related risks. The Compliance Risk Management Committee, established by the Chief Compliance Officer, serves to facilitate the management of consumer and customer-related compliance risk, including matters impacting products, geographies, and services. Other compliance-risk exposures are overseen and addressed by designated subject-matter experts across the enterprise&#8212;including in Finance, Tax, Accounting, Information Technology, Risk, Human Resources, and Corporate Structure and Facilities&#8212;and are escalated through their established governance and oversight routines. 

Conduct Risk 

Conduct risk is the risk of customer harm, employee harm, reputational damage, regulatory sanction, or financial loss resulting from the behavior of our employees and contractors toward customers, counterparties, other employees and contractors, or the markets in which we operate. 

Management is responsible for driving a culture that is consistent with our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values and &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy. We maintain an enterprise-wide Conduct Risk Management program that establishes the requirements for managing conduct risk. 

Under our governance framework, incentive compensation is subject to review and recoupment so as to appropriately consider and not encourage imprudent risk-taking. All incentive pay, whether paid or unpaid, vested or not vested, is subject to cancellation or recoupment if 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

based on, without limitation, material misstatements, misrepresentations, or fraud, or if the employee recipient failed to identify, raise, or assess issues with respect to financial loss or reputational risk to us or otherwise engaged in or contributed to other conduct adverse to us. 

We manage conduct risk through a variety of enterprise programs, policies, and procedures. Associates complete required training at on-boarding, and annually thereafter, to affirm their compliance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics. Training programs and other resources set expectations surrounding appropriate conduct, ethical behavior, and a culture of compliance with applicable laws, regulations, policies, and standards. Officers and employees are expected to take personal responsibility for maintaining the highest standards of honesty, trustworthiness, and ethical behavior; to understand and manage the risks associated with their positions; and to escalate concerns about risk management (including reporting of potential violations of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, our policies, or other laws and regulations). Employee conduct is considered through various human resources and management activities including associate recruiting, on-boarding, performance management, incentive programs and compensation, conflicts of interest, and corrective action. Oversight of conduct risk is performed by the Conduct Risk Officer within Sustainability Risk Management. 

Employee engagement surveys provide valuable insight into employee views and opinions about the company&#8217;s culture and conduct. The Ethics Hotline (independently managed, available to associates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week) and Open-Door Process provide additional avenues for employees to report concerns or incidents of potential misconduct. Human Resources, Employee Relations, and Enterprise Fraud, Security, and Investigations have established processes and procedures for investigating and addressing cases of potential fraud or employee misconduct. 

Climate-Related Risk 

We have identified and defined climate-related risk as an emerging risk. Pursuant to our risk-management framework, emerging risks include those that have yet to create a material impact or would only arise during stressful or unlikely circumstances. Refer to the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report for information on climate-related risks. 

Climate-related risk is generally categorized into two major categories: (1) risk related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy (transition risk) and (2) risk related to the physical impacts of climate change. Transition risk considers how changes in policy, technology, and market preference could pose operational, financial, and reputational risk to companies. Physical risk from climate change can be acute or chronic. Acute physical risk refers to risks that are event-driven such as increased severity of extreme weather events, including tornadoes, hurricanes, or floods. Chronic physical risks refer to long-term shifts in climate patterns, such as sustained higher temperatures, that may, for example, cause sea levels to rise. 

As the impacts of climate change become more evident, we have recognized (1) the importance of understanding, preparing for and taking timely preventive action against potentially material climate-change impacts, (2) increasing investor demand for consistent and comparable climate-change risk data, (3) shifting federal policy focus as a result of rejoining the Paris Climate Agreement and an increase in regulatory discussion about potential requirements and oversight, and (4) that Ally&#8217;s commitment to &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; extends to the conservation of environmental resources to promote a sustainable future for our customers, employees, stockholders, and the communities in which we live and operate. Ally is committed to developing a comprehensive enterprise sustainability strategy focusing on greater data collection, aggregation, and analysis, with the goal of aligning with the recommendations from the TCFD in assessing and reporting on our exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities consistent with the financial industry. In 2023, Ally: 

&#8226; Submitted our annual CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project) climate change questionnaire. 

&#8226; Achieved third-party verification to a limited level of assurance using ISO 14064-3 for our 2022 greenhouse gas emissions. 

&#8226; Executed Ally's operational carbon neutrality strategy for fiscal year 2022 Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the third consecutive year through a combined purchase of carbon offsets and Green-e Energy Certified renewable energy credits. 

&#8226; Leveraged initial climate risk identification efforts, aligned to the Enterprise Risk Management framework, as well as climate scenario analysis, to begin evaluating Ally&#8217;s potential climate risk exposure, both physical and transition, across material risk types, and continued the development of an appropriate risk mitigation strategy. 

&#8226; Initiated a new relationship with an independent sustainability ratings and assessment provider to begin evaluating the sustainability performance of certain third parties within our supply chain. 

&#8226; Focused on improving operational sustainability through strategic initiatives, including centralized trash and composting, installation of solar panels and additional EV charging stations, more efficient HVAC units, and promotion of biodiversity through landscape redesign with native species. 

&#8226; Launched a community apiary in April 2023 that features educational programming to emphasize the importance of biodiversity in an era of climate change. 

&#8226; Continued to support environmental volunteerism through Green Teams, an employee network of volunteers dedicated to sustainability. During 2023, Green Teams completed over 3,500 volunteer hours, which is a 52% increase as compared to 2022. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital 

Overview 

The purpose of liquidity management is to enable us to meet loan and operating lease demand, debt maturities, deposit withdrawals, and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions as well as periods of economic or financial stress. Our primary objective is to maintain cost-effective, stable and diverse sources of funding capable of sustaining the organization throughout all market cycles. Sources of funding include both retail and brokered deposits and secured and unsecured market-based funding across various maturity, interest rate, and investor profiles. Additional liquidity is available through a pool of unencumbered highly liquid securities, repurchase agreements, advances from the FHLB of Pittsburgh, and the FRB Discount Window. 

We define liquidity risk as the risk that an institution&#8217;s financial condition or overall safety and soundness is adversely affected by the actual or perceived inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding or to easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Liquidity risk can arise from a variety of institution-specific or market-related events that could have a negative impact on cash flows available to the organization. Effective management of liquidity risk positions an organization to meet cash flow obligations caused by unanticipated events. Managing liquidity needs and contingent funding exposures has proven essential to the solvency of financial institutions. 

The ALCO, chaired by the Corporate Treasurer, is responsible for overseeing our funding and liquidity strategies. Corporate Treasury is responsible for managing our liquidity positions within limits approved by ALCO, the ERMC, and the RC. As part of managing liquidity risk, Corporate Treasury prepares monthly forecasts depicting anticipated funding needs and sources of funds, executes our funding strategies, and manages liquidity under normal as well as more severely stressed macroeconomic environments. Oversight and monitoring of liquidity risk are provided by Independent Risk Management. 

The monthly liquidity forecasts demonstrate our ability to generate and obtain adequate amounts of cash to meet loan and operating lease demand, debt maturities, deposit withdrawals, and other cash commitments under normal operating conditions throughout the forecast horizon (currently through December 2026). Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the scheduled maturity of long-term debt as of December 31, 2023. In recent years, we have become less reliant on market-based funding, reducing our exposure to disruptions in wholesale funding markets. 

Funding Strategy 

Liquidity and ongoing profitability are largely dependent on the timely and cost-effective access to retail deposits and funding in various segments of the capital markets. We focus on maintaining diversified funding sources across a broad base of depositors, lenders, and investors to meet liquidity needs throughout different economic cycles, including periods of financial distress. These funding sources include retail and brokered deposits, public and private asset-backed securitizations, unsecured debt, FHLB advances, and repurchase agreements. Our access to diversified funding sources enhances funding flexibility and results in a more cost-effective funding strategy over the long term. We evaluate funding markets on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate balance of unsecured and secured funding sources and maturity profiles. 

We manage our funding to achieve a well-balanced portfolio across a spectrum of risk, maturity, and cost-of-funds characteristics. Optimizing funding at Ally Bank continues to be a key part of our long-term liquidity strategy. We optimize our funding sources at Ally Bank by prioritizing retail deposits, maintaining an active securitization program, managing the maturity profile of our brokered deposit portfolio, utilizing repurchase agreements, and continuing to access funds from the FHLB. 

Assets are primarily originated by Ally Bank to reduce parent company exposures and funding requirements, and to utilize our growing consumer deposit-taking capabilities. This allows us to use bank funding for substantially all our automotive finance and other assets and to provide a sustainable long-term funding channel for the business, while also improving the cost of funds for the enterprise. 

Liquidity Risk Management 

Multiple metrics are used to measure liquidity risk, manage the liquidity position, identify related trends, and monitor these trends and metrics against established limits. These metrics include comprehensive stress tests that measure the sufficiency of the liquidity portfolio over stressed horizons ranging from overnight to 12 months, stability ratios that measure longer-term structural liquidity, and concentration ratios that enable prudent funding diversification. In addition, we have established internal management routines designed to review all aspects of liquidity and funding plans, evaluate the adequacy of liquidity buffers, review stress testing results, and assist management in the execution of its funding strategy and risk-management accountabilities. 

Our liquidity stress testing is designed to allow us to operate our businesses and to meet our contractual and contingent obligations, including unsecured debt maturities, for at least 12 months, assuming our normal access to funding is disrupted by severe market-wide and enterprise-specific events. We maintain available liquidity in the form of cash, unencumbered highly liquid securities, available FHLB capacity, and available FRB Discount Window capacity. This available liquidity is held at various legal entities and is subject to regulatory restrictions and tax implications that may limit our ability to transfer funds across entities. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table summarizes our total available liquidity. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Liquid cash and equivalents (a) $ 6,468 &#160; $ 5,111 FHLB unused pledged borrowing capacity (b) 10,333 &#160; 11,148 Unencumbered highly liquid securities (c) 20,627 &#160; 22,155 FRB Discount Window pledged capacity (d) 26,025 &#160; 2,038 Total available liquidity $ 63,453 &#160; $ 40,452 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes restricted cash and foreign currency cash balances. 

(b) Pledged assets are primarily composed of consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans, as well as real-estate-backed loans within our Automotive Finance and Corporate Finance businesses, and non-agency mortgage-backed securities. 

(c) Includes unencumbered U.S. federal government, U.S. agency, and highly liquid corporate debt securities. 

(d) Pledged assets are composed of consumer automotive finance receivables and loans. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on assets pledged to the FRB. 

Recent Funding and Liquidity Developments 

Key funding highlights from January 1, 2023, to date were as follows: 

&#8226; In February 2023, Ally Financial Inc. accessed the unsecured debt capital markets and raised $500 million through the issuance of subordinated notes. In June 2023, Ally Financial Inc. raised $850 million through the issuance of unsecured senior notes. In December 2023, Ally Financial Inc. raised $750 million through the issuance of unsecured senior notes. Based on the proposed rule requiring Category II, III, and IV firms to maintain minimum amounts of eligible long-term debt, we would expect all three issuances to qualify under the requirement for covered bank holding companies. Refer to the section below titled Response to Banking Industry Failures for more information about the proposed rule. 

&#8226; We raised $1.8 billion through the completion of term securitization transactions backed by consumer automotive loans. 

&#8226; We issued $13.1 billion of brokered CDs. 

&#8226; We increased our total available funding capacity through the FRB Discount Window by $24.0 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, to $26.0 billion as of December 31, 2023. The increase in FRB Discount Window capacity reflects our strategy to maintain increased contingent liquidity following the bank failures of early 2023 and to further align with the Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans released in July 2023. 

&#8226; We increased and diversified repurchase agreement transaction funding with our counterparties. 

Response to Banking Industry Failures 

In March 2023, the FDIC was appointed as receiver for SVB and Signature after they experienced runs on deposits and other liquidity constraints. At the time, SVB and Signature were the 16th and 29th largest banks in the United States, respectively, as measured by total assets as of December 31, 2022. Also during March 2023, UBS Group AG announced the acquisition of Credit Suisse Group AG, with the support of the Swiss government. 

Our liquidity position fundamentally differs from those of SVB and Signature before their failures. For example, approximately 93% of total deposits at Ally Bank, excluding affiliate and intercompany deposits, were FDIC-insured as of December 31, 2023, compared to 12% for SVB and 10% for Signature as of December 31, 2022. Additionally, our deposit portfolio is primarily composed of granular and diversified retail customer accounts, as opposed to SVB and Signature who had large uninsured commercial deposits. Because of the market turbulence and uncertainty, however, we activated existing internal incident response procedures specifically designed to increase governance and monitoring of Ally Bank&#8217;s depositor behavior, liquidity position, and risk exposure, including frequent ongoing dialogue with the Board and supervisory authorities. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

We also took specific funding actions. Even before these failures, in response to the unprecedented pace of monetary tightening in 2022 and the resultant macroeconomic uncertainty, we had increased cash and available liquidity. Refer to the section above titled Recent Funding Developments. After the failures, we continued to do so by optimizing brokered CD issuances, borrowing from the FHLB, managing securities collateral pledged to the FHLB, maintaining competitive retail deposit pricing, and managing new loan origination volumes. We had $63.5 billion of total available liquidity as of December 31, 2023, which included $10.3 billion of available FHLB capacity and $26.0 billion of available FRB Discount Window capacity. Refer to the section above titled Liquidity Risk Management. FHLB funding provides us with a stable funding source and can be drawn upon on a same-day basis if sufficiently secured with available collateral. 

In support of American businesses and households, the FRB created the BTFP in March 2023 to make additional funding available to eligible depository institutions in order to help assure that banks have the ability to meet the needs of all of their depositors. The BTFP is a further source of liquidity against high-quality securities and contributes to financial stability by eliminating a bank&#8217;s need to quickly sell those securities in times of stress. Under the BTFP, depository institutions may borrow funds by pledging collateral eligible for purchase by the FRB in open market operations, such as U.S. Treasuries and agency debt and mortgage-backed securities, in each case valued at par. In January 2024, the FRB announced that the BTFP will cease making new loans as scheduled on March 11, 2024. We did not borrow from the BTFP through December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had $26.0 billion in total available funding capacity through the FRB Discount Window, with no debt outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Following the failures of SVB and Signature, on May 1, 2023, First Republic Bank was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which appointed the FDIC as receiver. The FDIC entered into a purchase and assumption agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank to assume all the deposits and substantially all the assets of First Republic Bank. We continue to monitor and assess the impact of these failures on Category IV firms, like Ally. 

In April 2023, in a statement accompanying the review of the FRB&#8217;s supervision and regulation of SVB, FRB Vice Chair for Supervision Barr highlighted a plan to revisit the Tailoring Rules and develop stronger capital, liquidity, stress-testing, and other standards for Category IV firms like Ally. In July 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a proposed rule to customize and implement revisions to the global Basel III capital framework that were approved by the Basel Committee in December 2017 (commonly known as the Basel III endgame or as Basel IV). For regulatory capital, the proposed rule would eliminate the effect of the Tailoring Rules by requiring the recognition of most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss and the application of deductions, limitations, and criteria for specified capital investments, minority interests, and TLAC holdings. For each of the risk-based capital ratios, a large banking organization, like Ally, would calculate and be bound by the lower of two alternatives: one version of the ratio based on an expanded risk-based approach prescribed in the proposed rule and one version of the ratio based on the standardized approach as modified by the proposed rule. All capital buffer requirements, including the stress capital buffer requirement, would apply regardless of whether the expanded risk-based approach or the standardized approach produces the lower ratio. Under the expanded risk-based approach, total RWAs would equal the sum of the RWAs for credit risk, equity risk, operational risk, market risk, and CVA risk as set forth in the proposed rule minus any amount of the banking organization&#8217;s adjusted allowance for credit losses that is not included in Tier 2 capital and any amount of allocated transfer risk reserves. Under the standardized approach, total RWAs would be calculated using the existing rules with a revised methodology for determining RWAs for market risk, and a required application of the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk for derivative exposures. Category IV firms would be further required under the proposed rule to project their risk-based capital ratios under baseline conditions in their capital plans and related reports using the RWA-calculation approach that results in their binding risk-based capital ratios as of the start of the projection horizon. The proposed rule also would roll back additional elements of the Tailoring Rules by applying to Category IV firms the supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, and enhanced public disclosure and reporting requirements. Under the proposed rule, a three-year transition period from July 1, 2025, to June 30, 2028, would apply to the recognition of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss in regulatory capital and the use of the expanded risk-based approach. The phase-in of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss is expected to significantly affect our levels of regulatory capital. While we believe that this would be manageable, we also anticipate that our levels of regulatory capital would need to be gradually increased in advance of and during the proposed transition period. As for the proposed changes to RWAs, while we continue to evaluate the effects of individual provisions and the interplay among them as well as potential management actions in response, the impact is not currently expected to be significant in the aggregate if the proposed rule were adopted in its existing form. Since the proposed rule was issued, we have been engaged with research and advocacy groups to inform the rulemaking process and better understand the impacts of the proposed rule on banking organizations of various sizes and complexities&#8212;as well as the competitive environment more broadly&#8212;and likewise encourage the U.S. banking agencies to closely study these impacts and their wider implications. 

In August 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a proposed rule to improve the resolvability of Category IV firms, like Ally. The proposed rule would require Category II, III, and IV firms, their large consolidated banks, and other institutions to issue and maintain minimum amounts of eligible long-term debt in an amount that is the greater of (i) 6 percent of total RWAs, (ii) 3.5 percent of average total consolidated assets, and (iii) 2.5 percent of total leverage exposure. Covered insured depository institutions, like Ally Bank, that are consolidated subsidiaries of covered entities, like Ally, would be required to issue eligible long-term debt internally to a company that consolidates the covered insured depository institution, which would in turn be required to purchase that long-term debt. Only long-term debt instruments that are most readily able to absorb losses in a resolution proceeding would qualify, and the operations of covered entities would be subject to clean-holding-company requirements such as prohibitions and limitations on their liabilities to unaffiliated entities. Under the proposed rule, a transition period would apply with 25, 50, and 100 percent of the long-term-debt requirements coming into effect by the end 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

of the first, second, and third years, respectively, after finalization of the rule. We are still assessing the impact of this proposed rule but, due to the current structure and amount of debt instruments issued by Ally and Ally Bank, we expect it to significantly affect us. 

Whether and when final rules related to these proposals may be adopted and take effect, as well as what changes to the proposed rules may be reflected in any final rules after the comment periods, remain unclear. Also, beyond these proposed rules, more stringent and less tailored liquidity, stress-testing, and other standards for Category IV firms, like Ally, may be forthcoming, including those that may reinstate the LCR, require more rigorous liquidity stress testing, and return Ally to supervisory stress testing on an annual cycle. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In August 2023, citing macroeconomic trends impacting the banking industry, such as increased costs of funding and rapid tightening in monetary policy, Moody&#8217;s downgraded the credit ratings of a number of banks. Additionally, Moody&#8217;s downgraded the outlook of a number of banks, including Ally, where the outlook was lowered from Stable to Negative. Refer to the section below titled Credit Ratings for additional information. 

On November 16, 2023, the FDIC finalized a rule that imposes a special assessment to recover the costs to the DIF resulting from the FDIC&#8217;s use, in March 2023, of the systemic risk exception to the least-cost resolution test under the FDI Act in connection with the receiverships of SVB and Signature. The FDIC estimated in approving the rule that those assessed losses total approximately $16.3 billion. The rule provides that this loss estimate will be periodically adjusted, which will affect the amount of the special assessment. Under the rule, the assessment base is the estimated uninsured deposits that an IDI reported in its Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (&#8220;Call Report&#8221;) at December 31, 2022, excluding the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits. The special assessments will be collected at an annual rate of approximately 13.4 basis points per year (3.36 basis points per quarter) over eight quarters in 2024 and 2025, with the first assessment period beginning January 1, 2024. Because the estimated loss pursuant to the systemic risk determination will be periodically adjusted, the FDIC retains the ability to cease collection early, extend the special assessment collection period, and impose a final shortfall special assessment on a one-time basis. Ally expects the special assessments to be tax deductible. The total of the assessments for Ally, based on Ally Bank&#8217;s uninsured deposits as of December 31, 2022, is estimated at $38 million, and such amount was recorded as an expense in the quarter of adoption (the quarter ending December 31, 2023). 

Funding Sources 

The following table summarizes our sources of funding and the amount outstanding under each category for the periods shown. 

##TABLE_START On-balance-sheet funding % Share of funding 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2023 2022 Deposits $ 154,666 &#160; $ 152,297 88 88 Debt Secured financings 10,443 &#160; $ 10,124 6 6 Institutional term debt 9,815 &#160; 9,678 6 6 Retail term notes 609 &#160; 359 &#8212; &#8212; Total debt (a) 20,867 &#160; 20,161 12 12 Total on-balance-sheet funding $ 175,533 &#160; $ 172,458 100 100 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes hedge basis adjustments as described in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the scheduled maturity of long-term debt at December 31, 2023. 

Deposits 

Ally Bank is a digital direct bank with no branch network that obtains retail deposits directly from customers. We offer competitive rates and fees on a full spectrum of retail deposit products, including savings accounts, money-market demand accounts, CDs, interest-bearing spending accounts, trust accounts, and IRAs. Our primary funding source is retail deposits, which we believe, at scale, are the most efficient and stable source of funding for us when compared to other funding sources. Retail deposits constituted 81% of our total funding sources at December 31, 2023. In addition, we utilize brokered deposits, which are obtained through third-party intermediaries. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Total uninsured deposits as calculated per regulatory guidance includes affiliate and intercompany deposits, which we believe have different risk profiles than other uninsured deposits. The amounts presented below remove affiliate and intercompany deposits from total uninsured deposits. We believe that the presentation of uninsured deposits adjusted for the impact of the affiliate deposits provides enhanced clarity of uninsured deposits at risk. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

Amount Percentage of total deposits Amount Percentage of total deposits Uninsured deposits Total uninsured deposits, as calculated per regulatory guidelines $ 16,895 &#160; 11 &#160; % $ 19,303 13 % Less: Affiliate and intercompany deposits 5,313 &#160; 4 &#160; % 4,072 3 % Total uninsured deposits, excluding affiliate and intercompany deposits $ 11,582 &#160; 7 &#160; % $ 15,231 10 % ##TABLE_END

The following table shows Ally Bank&#8217;s total primary retail deposit customers and deposit balances as of the end of each of the last five quarters. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2023 September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Total primary retail deposit customers (in thousands) 

3,040 &#160; 2,989 2,894 2,808 2,681 

Deposits ($ in millions) 

Retail $ 142,265 &#160; $ 140,100 $ 138,983 $ 138,497 $ 137,684 Brokered 11,000 &#160; 11,264 13,677 13,801 12,590 Other (a) 1,401 &#160; 1,471 1,650 1,715 2,023 Total deposits $ 154,666 &#160; $ 152,835 $ 154,310 $ 154,013 $ 152,297 ##TABLE_END

(a) Other deposits include mortgage escrow deposits. Other deposits also include a deposit related to Ally Invest customer cash balances deposited at Ally Bank by a third party of $1.3 billion as of both December 31, 2023, and September 30, 2023, $1.5 billion as of both June 30, 2023, and March 31, 2023, and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2022. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, our total deposit base increased $2.4 billion, and we added approximately 359,000 retail deposit customers, ending with approximately 3.0 million retail deposit customers as of December 31, 2023. Total retail deposits increased $4.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, bringing the total retail deposits portfolio to $142.3 billion as of December 31, 2023, primarily driven by an increase in retail deposit customers. We have maintained competitive deposit rates in response to higher benchmark interest rates and changes in product offerings by banks and nonbanks. Additionally, brokered deposits decreased $1.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2023, our CD deposit liabilities increased $13.9 billion and our savings, money market, and spending account deposit liabilities decreased $11.4 billion. This trend was primarily due to customer migration from liquid savings to fixed-rate CDs, as observed across the industry. Overall, strong customer acquisition and retention rates continue to deliver a favorable funding mix. 

Following the failures of SVB and Signature, we briefly experienced elevated two-way deposit flows. Uninsured deposit outflows were more than offset by inflows from new and existing customers. Approximately 92% of retail deposits at Ally Bank, excluding affiliate and intercompany deposits, were FDIC-insured as of December 31, 2023. Our total available liquidity exceeded our uninsured retail deposit liabilities by $51.9 billion as of December 31, 2023. 

We continue to advance our digital capabilities and deliver incremental value to our retail deposit customers beyond competitive rates and low fees. Notably, our digital tools (e.g. Savings &#38; Spend Buckets) improve the digital banking experience across the entire customer journey, and additional account features like CoverDraft and early direct deposit further bolster our &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; commitment for our customers. 

We continue to be recognized for the totality of experience and value we provide our customers. In April 2023, Forbes again named Ally to its &#8220;World&#8217;s Best Banks&#8221; list followed by The Wall Street Journal&#8217;s BuySide recognition of Ally Bank as the &#8220;Best Online Bank of 2023.&#8221; In October 2023, MONEY&#174; Magazine named Ally to its &#8220;Best Online Bank&#8221; list for the sixth consecutive year, as well as the eleventh time in the past thirteen years. In January 2023, Bankrate named Ally Bank the &#8220;Best Bank Overall.&#8221; For additional information on our deposit funding by type, refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Securitizations and Secured Financings 

In addition to building a larger deposit base in recent years, we maintain a presence in the securitization markets to finance our automotive loan portfolios. Securitizations and secured funding transactions, collectively referred to as securitization transactions due to their similarities, allow us to convert our automotive-finance receivables into cash earlier than what would have occurred in the normal course of business. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

As part of these securitization transactions, we sell assets to various SPEs in exchange for the proceeds from the issuance of debt and other beneficial interests in the assets. The activities of the SPEs are generally limited to acquiring the assets, issuing and making payments on the debt, paying related expenses, and periodically reporting to investors. 

These SPEs are separate legal entities that assume the risks and rewards of ownership of the receivables they hold. The assets of the SPEs are not available to satisfy our claims or those of our creditors. In addition, the SPEs do not invest in our equity or in the equity of any of our affiliates. Our economic exposure related to the SPEs is generally limited to retained interests, and customary representation, warranty, and covenant provisions. We manage securitization execution risk by maintaining a diverse domestic and foreign investor base. 

We typically agree to service the assets transferred in our securitization transactions for a fee, and we may be entitled to other related fees. The total amount of servicing fees earned is disclosed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may also retain a portion of senior and subordinated interests issued by the SPEs. Subordinate interests typically provide credit support to the more highly rated senior interest in a securitization transaction and may be subject to all or a portion of the first-loss position related to the sold assets. 

These securitization transactions may meet the criteria to be accounted for as off-balance-sheet securitization transactions if we do not hold a potentially significant economic interest or do not provide servicing or asset management functions for the financial assets held by the securitization entity. Our securitization transactions may not meet the required criteria to be accounted for as off-balance-sheet securitization transactions; therefore, they are accounted for as secured borrowings. For information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements and securitization activities, refer to Note 1 and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

During the year ended December 31, 2023, we raised $1.8 billion through the completion of two term securitization transactions backed by consumer automotive loans, initially accounted for as secured borrowings. Subsequently, we sold initially retained interests in these transactions. As a result of these incremental sales, we deconsolidated $1.7 billion of consumer automotive loans from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

We have access to funding through advances with the FHLB. These advances are primarily secured by consumer and commercial mortgage finance receivables and loans and investment securities. As of December 31, 2023, we had pledged $27.9 billion of assets to the FHLB resulting in $18.5 billion in total funding capacity with $8.2 billion of debt outstanding. 

At December 31, 2023, $69.5 billion of our total assets were restricted as collateral for the payment of debt obligations accounted for as secured borrowings. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Unsecured Financings 

We have long-term unsecured debt outstanding from retail term note programs. These programs are composed of callable fixed-rate instruments with fixed maturity dates. There were $609 million of retail term notes outstanding at December 31, 2023. The remainder of our unsecured debt is composed of institutional term debt. In February 2023, we accessed the unsecured debt capital markets and raised $500 million through the issuance of subordinated notes. In June 2023, we raised $850 million through the issuance of unsecured senior notes. In December 2023, we raised $750 million through the issuance of unsecured senior notes. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our outstanding long-term unsecured debt. 

Other Secured and Unsecured Short-term Borrowings 

We have access to repurchase agreements. A repurchase agreement is a transaction in which the firm sells financial instruments to a buyer, typically in exchange for cash, and simultaneously enters into an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same financial instruments from the buyer at a stated price plus accrued interest at a future date. The securities sold in repurchase agreements include U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of December 31, 2023, we had $747 million debt outstanding under repurchase agreements. 

Additionally, we have access to the FRB Discount Window and can borrow funds to meet short-term liquidity demands. The FRB, however, is not a primary source of funding for day-to-day business. Instead, it is a liquidity source that can be accessed in stressed environments or periods of market disruption. As of December 31, 2023, we had assets pledged and restricted as collateral to the FRB totaling $34.0 billion, resulting in $26.0 billion in total funding capacity with no debt outstanding. For information on our ability to access the BTFP, refer to the section above titled Response to Banking Industry Failures. 

Guaranteed Securities 

Certain senior notes (collectively, the Guaranteed Notes) issued by Ally Financial Inc. (referred to within this section as the Parent) are unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by IB Finance, a subsidiary of the Parent and the direct parent of Ally Bank, and Ally US LLC, a subsidiary of the Parent (together, the Guarantors, and the guarantee provided by each such Guarantor, the Note Guarantees). The Guarantors are primary obligors with respect to payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all payment obligations of the Parent in respect of the Guaranteed Notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture. At both December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, the outstanding principal balance of the Guaranteed Notes was $2.0 billion, with the last scheduled maturity to take place in 2031. 

The Note Guarantees rank equally in right of payment with the applicable Guarantor&#8217;s existing and future unsubordinated unsecured indebtedness and are subordinate to any secured indebtedness of the applicable Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Note Guarantees are structurally subordinate to indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables and lease 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

obligations, and in the case of Ally Bank, its deposits) of any nonguarantor subsidiaries of the applicable Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets of such subsidiaries. 

The Note Guarantees and all other obligations of the Guarantors will terminate and be of no further force or effect (i) upon a permissible sale, disposition, or other transfer (including through merger or consolidation) of a majority of the equity interests (including any sale, disposition or other transfer following which the applicable Guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of the Parent), of the applicable Guarantor, or (ii) upon the discharge of the Parent&#8217;s obligations related to the Guaranteed Notes. 

The following tables present summarized financial data for the Parent and the Guarantors on a combined basis. The Guarantors, both of which the Parent is deemed to possess control over, are fully consolidated after eliminating intercompany balances and transactions. Summarized financial data for nonguarantor subsidiaries is excluded. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 2021 Net financing loss and other interest income (a) $ (945) $ (1,000) $ (1,070) Dividends from bank subsidiaries 1,350 &#160; 3,150 3,450 Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries 250 &#160; 1 27 Total other revenue 169 &#160; 103 243 Total net revenue 824 &#160; 2,254 2,650 Provision for credit losses (13) (32) (106) Total noninterest expense 465 &#160; 665 650 Income from continuing operations before income tax benefit 372 &#160; 1,621 2,106 Income tax benefit from continuing operations (b) (408) (253) (412) Net income from continuing operations 780 &#160; 1,874 2,518 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (2) (1) (5) Net income (c) $ 778 &#160; $ 1,873 $ 2,513 ##TABLE_END

(a) Net financing loss and other interest income is primarily driven by interest expense on long-term debt. 

(b) There is a significant variation in the customary relationship between pretax income and income tax benefit due to our accounting policy elections and consolidated tax adjustments. The income tax benefit excludes tax effects on dividends from subsidiaries. 

(c) Excludes the Parent&#8217;s and Guarantors&#8217; share of income of all nonguarantor subsidiaries. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Total assets (a) $ 7,242 &#160; $ 5,467 Total liabilities $ 11,671 &#160; $ 10,996 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes investments in all nonguarantor subsidiaries. 

Cash Flows 

The following summarizes the activity reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. While this information may be helpful to highlight certain macro trends and business strategies, the cash flow analysis may not be as helpful when analyzing changes in our net earnings and net assets. We believe that in addition to the traditional cash flow analysis, the discussion related to liquidity, dividends, and ALM herein may provide more useful context in evaluating our liquidity position and related activity. 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.7 billion and $6.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Operating cash inflows were lower versus the prior year due to unfavorable market conditions as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. Refer to the Consolidated Results of Operation s section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $7.3 billion and $17.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. The change was primarily due to a $6.0 billion decrease in net cash outflows related to loans held-for-investment and a $3.5 billion decrease in net cash outflows related to available-for-sale securities. 

Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $3.8 billion, compared to $11.6 billion for the same period in 2022. The change was primarily attributable to a decrease in net cash inflows of $8.4 billion from deposits and a decrease of $1.5 billion related to short-term borrowings. The decrease was partially offset by lower repurchases of common stock of $1.6 billion. 

Capital Planning and Stress Tests 

Under the Tailoring Rules, we are generally subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle and exempted from mandated company-run capital stress testing requirements. We are also required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB. Our annual capital plan must include an assessment of our expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any dividend or other capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on our capital. The plan must also include a detailed description of our process for assessing capital adequacy, including a discussion of how we, under expected and stressful conditions, will maintain capital commensurate 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

with our risks and above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, will serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank, and will maintain sufficient capital to continue our operations by maintaining ready access to funding, meeting our obligations to creditors and other counterparties, and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. 

The Tailoring Rules align capital planning, supervisory stress testing, and stress capital buffer requirements for large banking organizations, like Ally. As a Category IV firm, Ally is expected to have the ability to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test&#8212;and receive a correspondingly updated stress capital buffer requirement&#8212;in a year in which Ally would not generally be subject to the supervisory stress test. Refer to the section titled Basel Capital Framework in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion about our stress capital buffer requirements. During a year in which Ally does not undergo a supervisory stress test, we would receive an updated stress capital buffer requirement only to reflect our updated planned common-stock dividends. Ally was subject to the 2022 supervisory stress test and did not elect to participate in the 2023 supervisory stress test. 

On January 10, 2022, our Board authorized a stock-repurchase program, permitting us to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock from time to time from the first quarter of 2022 through the fourth quarter of 2022 subject to restrictions imposed by the FRB, and an increase in our cash dividend on common stock from $0.25 per share for the fourth quarter of 2021 to $0.30 per share for the first quarter of 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased $1.65 billion of common stock under our stock-repurchase program. Since the commencement of our initial stock-repurchase program in the third quarter of 2016, we have reduced the number of outstanding shares of our common stock by 37%, from 484 million as of June 30, 2016, to 302 million as of December 31, 2023. Except for repurchases made of shares withheld to cover income taxes owed by participants in our share-based incentive plans, we did not make any common-stock repurchases in 2023, and at this time, the Board has not authorized a stock-repurchase program for 2024. 

We submitted our 2022 capital plan to the FRB on April 5, 2022. Ally received an updated preliminary stress capital buffer requirement from the FRB in June 2022, which was determined to be 2.5% and reflected a decline of 100 basis points relative to our prior requirement. The updated 2.5% stress capital buffer requirement was finalized in August 2022 and became effective on October 1, 2022. In February 2023, we accessed the unsecured debt capital markets and issued $500 million of additional subordinated notes, which qualify as Tier 2 capital for Ally under U.S. Basel III. We submitted our 2023 capital plan to the FRB on April 5, 2023, and received in June 2023 an updated preliminary stress capital buffer requirement that remained unchanged at 2.5%. The 2.5% stress capital buffer requirement was finalized in July 2023 and became effective on October 1, 2023. 

Our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, will continue to be subject to the FRB&#8217;s review and our internal governance requirements, including approval by our Board. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases also will be subject to various factors, including Ally&#8217;s capital and liquidity positions, accounting and regulatory considerations (including any restrictions that may be imposed by the FRB and any changes to capital, liquidity, and other regulatory requirements that may be proposed or adopted by the U.S. banking agencies), the taxation of share repurchases, financial and operational performance, alternative uses of capital, common-stock price, and general market conditions, and may be extended, modified, or discontinued at any time. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Regulatory Capital 

We became subject to U.S. Basel III on January 1, 2015, although a number of its provisions&#8212;including capital buffers and certain regulatory capital deductions&#8212;were subject to phase-in periods. For further information on U.S. Basel III, refer to the section titled Regulation and Supervision in Part I, Item I of this report, and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents selected regulatory capital data under U.S Basel III. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2023 2022 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 

9.36 &#160; % 9.27 % Tier 1 capital ratio 10.76 &#160; % 10.72 % Total capital ratio 12.41 &#160; % 12.21 % Tier 1 leverage ratio (to adjusted quarterly average assets) (a) 

8.67 &#160; % 8.65 % Total equity $ 13,766 &#160; $ 12,859 CECL phase-in adjustment (b) 

591 &#160; 887 Preferred stock (c) (2,324) (2,324) Goodwill and certain other intangibles 

(731) (902) Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (d) (10) (4) AOCI-related adjustments (e) 3,837 &#160; 4,076 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 15,129 &#160; 14,592 Preferred stock (c) 2,324 &#160; 2,324 Other adjustments (61) (49) Tier 1 capital 17,392 &#160; 16,867 Qualifying subordinated debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 

694 &#160; 416 Qualifying allowance for loan losses and other adjustments 1,969 &#160; 1,926 Total capital $ 20,055 &#160; $ 19,209 Risk-weighted assets (f) $ 161,601 &#160; $ 157,346 ##TABLE_END

(a) Tier 1 leverage ratio equals Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average total assets, which both reflect adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets, and disallowed deferred tax assets. 

(b) We elected to delay recognizing the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until after a two-year deferral period, which for us extended through December 31, 2021. Beginning on January 1, 2022, we phased in 25% of the previously deferred estimated capital impact of CECL, with an additional 25% to be phased in at the beginning of each subsequent year until fully phased in by the first quarter of 2025. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

(c) Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details about our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. 

(d) Contains deferred tax assets required to be deducted from capital under U.S. Basel III. 

(e) Comprises adjustments related to our accumulated other comprehensive income opt-out election, which allows us to exclude most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income from regulatory capital. 

(f) Risk-weighted assets are defined by regulation and are generally determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet exposures to various risk categories. 

Credit Ratings 

The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings, which are intended to be an indicator of the creditworthiness of a particular company, security, or obligation. Lower ratings result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. This is particularly true for certain institutional investors whose investment guidelines require investment-grade ratings on term debt and the two highest rating categories for short-term debt (particularly money-market investors). 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations rate substantially all our debt. The following table summarizes our current ratings and outlook by the respective nationally recognized rating agencies. 

##TABLE_START 

Rating agency 

Short-term 

Senior unsecured debt 

Outlook 

Fitch (a) F3 

BBB- 

Stable Moody&#8217;s (b) P-3 Baa3 Negative 

S&#38;P (c) A-3 

BBB- 

Stable DBRS (d) R-2 (high) BBB Stable ##TABLE_END

(a) Fitch affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB-, short-term rating of F3, and affirmed the outlook of Stable on March 20, 2023. 

(b) Moody&#8217;s affirmed our senior unsecured rating of Baa3, affirmed our short-term rating of P-3, and changed our outlook to Negative from Stable on August 7, 2023. 

(c) Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB-, affirmed our short-term rating of A-3, and changed the outlook to Stable from Negative on March 25, 2021. 

(d) DBRS upgraded our senior unsecured debt rating to BBB from BBB (Low), upgraded our short-term rating to R-2 (high) from R-3, and affirmed the outlook of Stable on March 6, 2023. 

As illustrated by the issuer ratings above, as of December 31, 2023, Ally holds an investment-grade rating from all the respective nationally recognized rating agencies. 

Rating agencies indicate that they base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, which may include capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, level and quality of earnings, and the current operating, legislative, and regulatory environment. Rating agencies themselves could make or be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices&#8212;particularly in response to legislative and regulatory changes. Potential changes in rating methodology, as well as in the legislative and regulatory environment, and the timing of those changes could impact our ratings, which as noted above could increase our borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. 

A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 

Insurance Financial Strength Ratings 

Substantially all of our Insurance operations have an FSR and an ICR from A.M. Best. The FSR is intended to be an indicator of the ability of the insurance company to meet its senior most obligations to policyholders. Lower ratings generally result in fewer opportunities to write business, as insureds, particularly large commercial insureds, and insurance companies purchasing reinsurance have guidelines requiring high FSR ratings. On September 21, 2023, A.M. Best upgraded the FSR for Ally Insurance Group to A (excellent) from A- (excellent), upgraded the ICR to a (excellent) from a- (excellent), and maintained a Stable outlook. 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

Accounting policies are integral to understanding our MD&#38;A. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain judgments and assumptions, on the basis of information available at the time of the financial statements, in determining accounting estimates used in the preparation of these statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our critical accounting policies requiring significant management assumptions and judgment are described in this section. An accounting estimate is considered critical if the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made. If actual results differ from our judgments and assumptions, then it may have an adverse impact on the results of operations and cash flows. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the AC, and the AC has reviewed our disclosure relating to these estimates. 

Allowance for Loan Losses 

We maintain an allowance for loan losses (the allowance) to reflect the net amount expected to be collected from our lending portfolios. The allowance is maintained at a level that management considers to be adequate based upon ongoing assessments and evaluations using relevant available information. We maintain a governance and internal control framework to support the establishment of our allowance, and models used in that allowance process are regularly assessed through ongoing performance monitoring routines that are reviewed by the model risk management function. The allowance is measured using statistically estimated models that are designed to correlate customer and collateral quality, as well as certain macroeconomic variables to expected future credit losses. The macroeconomic data used in the models is based on forecasted variables for the next 12 months. Beyond this forecast period, we revert to a historical average for each of the variables on a straight-line basis over 24 months. Our baseline macroeconomic forecast is consistent with the 50th percentile in a distribution of possible economic outcomes. 

The consumer portfolio segments consist of loans that generally share similar risk characteristics within our Automotive Finance operations, Mortgage Finance operations, and our personal lending and credit card operations, both of which are included within Corporate and Other. For additional information regarding the allowance calculation for the consumer portfolio segments, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The commercial portfolio segment is composed of loans that may or may not share similar risk characteristics within our Automotive Finance operations and Corporate Finance operations. For additional information regarding the allowance calculation for the commercial portfolio segment, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The determination of the allowance is influenced by numerous assumptions and factors that may materially affect estimates of loss. The critical assumptions underlying the allowance include: (i) segmentation of each portfolio based on common risk characteristics; (ii) the development of reasonable and supportable forecasts of future macroeconomic conditions; and (iii) evaluation by management of borrower, collateral, and geographic information. Management monitors the adequacy of the allowance and makes adjustments as the assumptions in the underlying analyses change to reflect an estimate of expected lifetime loan losses at the reporting date, based on the best information available at that time. 

The allowance reflects management&#8217;s estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual term of our lending portfolio and involves significant judgment, which could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net income. For additional information regarding our portfolio segments and classes, allowance for loan losses, and other credit quality indicators, refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Macroeconomic Sensitivity Analysis 

We perform a sensitivity analysis using scenarios derived from widely published macroeconomic forecasts to quantify the sensitivity of our baseline forecast to alternative changes in macroeconomic conditions. These scenarios are based on fixed probabilities of occurrence. 

&#8226; The unfavorable (or downside) scenario is consistent with the 90th percentile in a distribution of possible economic outcomes and implies that there is a 90% chance that the realized economy will be better than the defined path and a 10% chance that the realized economy will be worse than the defined path. 

&#8226; The alternative unfavorable (or alternative downside) scenario is consistent with the 96th percentile in a distribution of possible economic outcomes and implies that there is a 96% chance that the realized economy will be better than the defined path and a 4% chance that the realized economy will be worse than the defined path. 

As of December 31, 2023, results of this sensitivity analysis indicate that the downside scenario would increase our allowance for loan losses by 10% and the alternative unfavorable scenario would increase our allowance for loan losses by 13%. These results are estimates that are directly tied to the timing, severity, and duration of changes in the independently and instantaneously shocked macroeconomic scenario. Actual loss sensitivities and resulting estimates of consolidated allowance for loan losses may be influenced by numerous other factors including, but not limited to, the actual evaluation of macroeconomic conditions, the underlying performance of our portfolios relative to historical loss experience, future government and management actions, and other quantitative and qualitative information and adjustments. Therefore, this sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and is not intended to represent our expectation of changes in our estimate of expected credit losses due to a change in the macroeconomic environment. 

Valuation of Automotive Operating Lease Assets and Residuals 

We have significant investments in vehicles in our operating lease portfolio. In accounting for operating leases, management must make a determination at the beginning of the operating lease contract of the estimated realizable value (i.e., residual value) of the vehicle at the end of the lease. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age of the vehicle, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. The customer is obligated to make payments during the term of the lease for the difference between the purchase price and the contract residual value plus rental charges. However, since the customer is not obligated to purchase the vehicle at the end of the contract, we are exposed to a risk of loss to the extent the value of the vehicle is below the residual value estimated at contract inception. For additional information regarding residual value, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

To account for residual risk, we depreciate automotive operating lease assets to expected realizable value on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The estimated realizable value is initially based on the expected residual value established at contract inception. Periodically, we review the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions, and other relevant data points, and adjust depreciation expense as necessary over the remaining term of the lease. Management periodically performs a detailed review of the estimated realizable value of vehicles to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of operating lease assets. Impairment of operating lease assets is assessed upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Triggering events are systemic, observed events impacting the used vehicle market such as shocks to oil and gas prices that may indicate impairment of the operating lease asset. For additional information regarding operating lease impairment, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our depreciation methodology for operating lease assets considers management&#8217;s expectation of the value of the vehicles upon lease termination, which is based on numerous assumptions and factors influencing used vehicle values. The critical assumptions underlying the estimated carrying value of automotive operating lease assets include: (i) estimated market value information obtained and used by management in estimating residual values, (ii) proper identification and estimation of business conditions, (iii) our remarketing abilities, and (iv) automotive manufacturer vehicle and marketing programs. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the operating lease residual value. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Lessees have the first opportunity to purchase the off-lease vehicle at the end of the lease term for the price stated in the lease agreement. If the lessee declines to purchase the off-lease vehicle, the dealer is offered the opportunity to purchase the vehicle directly from us at a price we define. If both the lessee and the dealer decline their options to purchase, we remarket the off-lease vehicle at auction. At this point, we are exposed to a risk of loss. If the realized values of our leased vehicles were to decline 1% below our estimated realizable values, we would incur $73 million of incremental depreciation expense over the remaining life of our operating lease portfolio on a scheduled termination basis. Additionally, this is based on the improbable event that all vehicles were remarketed at auction due to lessees and dealers foregoing their purchase options. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. Refer to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of valuation methodologies used to measure material assets and liabilities at fair value and details of the valuation models, key inputs to those models, and significant assumptions utilized. We follow the fair value hierarchy set forth in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in order to prioritize the inputs utilized to measure fair value. We review and modify, as necessary, our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis, which can result in reclassifications between hierarchy levels. 

We have numerous internal controls in place to address risks inherent in estimating fair value measurements. Significant fair value measurements are subject to detailed analytics and management review and approval. We have an established risk management policy and model validation program. This model validation program establishes a controlled environment for the development, implementation, and operation of models used to generate fair value measurements and change procedures. Further, this program uses a risk-based approach to determine the frequency at which models are to be independently reviewed and validated. Additionally, a wide array of operational controls governs fair value measurements, including controls over the inputs into and the outputs from the fair value measurement models. For example, we backtest the internal assumptions used within models against actual performance. We also monitor the market for recent trades, market surveys, or other market information that may be used to benchmark model inputs or outputs. Certain valuations will also be benchmarked to market indices when appropriate and available. We have scheduled model or input recalibrations that occur on a periodic basis but will recalibrate earlier if significant variances are observed as part of the backtesting or benchmarking noted above. 

Considerable judgment is used in forming conclusions from market observable data used to estimate our Level 2 fair value measurements and in estimating inputs to our internal valuation models used to estimate our Level 3 fair value measurements. Level 3 inputs such as interest rate movements, prepayment speeds, credit losses, and discount rates are inherently difficult to estimate. Changes to these inputs can have a significant effect on fair value measurements and amounts that could be realized. Refer to the section titled Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis within this MD&#38;A for a sensitivity analysis of changes in interest rates, foreign-currency exchange rates, and equity prices. 

Determination of Provision for Income Taxes 

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management&#8217;s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes predominantly in the United States. We file income tax returns in approximately 50 jurisdictions: federal, state, and local. The laws and regulations of each jurisdiction are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining consolidated income tax expense for each jurisdiction. Our interpretations of tax laws are subject to audits by various jurisdictions. Potential difference in the interpretation or changes in the tax laws may result in additional accrual of income tax expense or benefit, which could be material to our reported results. We consistently monitor new and reassess existing tax laws for changes and adjust our tax estimates accordingly. 

Our provision for income taxes is comprised of current and deferred income taxes. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent results of operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results adjusted for changes in accounting policies and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal, and foreign pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income (loss). 

As of each reporting date, we consider existing evidence, both positive and negative, that could impact our view with regard to future realization of deferred tax assets. We currently hold deferred tax asset attributes related to net operating tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards. We perform regular assessments to determine whether our tax attributes are realizable. As of December 31, 2023, we continue to believe it is more likely than not that the benefit for certain foreign tax credit carryforwards and state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, we continue to provide a partial valuation allowance on these deferred tax assets relating to these carryforwards and it is reasonably possible that the valuation allowance may change in the next 12 months. 

For additional information regarding our provision for income taxes, refer to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to recently adopted accounting standards. 

Statistical Tables 

The accompanying supplemental information should be read in conjunction with the more detailed information, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Net Interest Margin Table 

The following table presents an analysis of net yield on interest-earning assets (or net interest margin) for the periods shown. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 2021 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Assets Interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents $ 7,261 &#160; $ 332 &#160; 4.57 &#160; % $ 3,886 $ 54 1.38 % $ 12,855 $ 15 0.12 % Investment securities (b) 30,157 &#160; 980 &#160; 3.25 &#160; 33,527 804 2.40 35,100 579 1.65 Loans held-for-sale, net 417 &#160; 34 &#160; 8.24 &#160; 616 31 5.06 487 18 3.77 Finance receivables and loans, net (b) (c) (d) 138,136 &#160; 11,020 &#160; 7.98 &#160; 128,178 8,099 6.32 114,420 6,468 5.65 Investment in operating leases, net (e) 9,941 &#160; 690 &#160; 6.93 &#160; 10,656 682 6.41 10,518 980 9.32 Other earning assets 704 &#160; 42 &#160; 5.96 &#160; 870 37 4.27 693 21 2.92 Total interest-earning assets 186,616 &#160; 13,098 &#160; 7.02 &#160; 177,733 9,707 5.46 174,073 8,081 4.64 Noninterest-bearing cash and cash equivalents 

322 &#160; 416 514 Other assets 11,044 &#160; 10,442 9,098 Allowance for loan losses (3,782) (3,439) (3,193) Total assets $ 194,200 &#160; $ 185,152 $ 180,492 Liabilities and equity Interest-bearing deposit liabilities (b) $ 152,915 &#160; $ 5,819 &#160; 3.81 &#160; % $ 142,987 $ 1,987 1.39 % $ 138,947 $ 1,045 0.75 % Short-term borrowings 1,383 &#160; 73 &#160; 5.27 &#160; 4,292 107 2.49 201 1 0.31 Long-term debt (b) 19,226 &#160; 1,001 &#160; 5.21 &#160; 16,683 763 4.58 17,620 860 4.88 Total interest-bearing liabilities 173,524 &#160; 6,893 &#160; 3.97 &#160; 163,962 2,857 1.74 156,768 1,906 1.22 Noninterest-bearing deposit liabilities 172 &#160; 193 157 Total funding sources 173,696 &#160; 6,893 &#160; 3.97 &#160; 164,155 2,857 1.74 156,925 1,906 1.22 Other liabilities (f) 6,940 &#160; 4 &#160; n/m 6,606 &#8212; n/m 6,855 8 n/m Total liabilities 180,636 &#160; 170,761 163,780 Total equity 13,564 &#160; 14,391 16,712 Total liabilities and equity $ 194,200 &#160; $ 185,152 $ 180,492 Net financing revenue and other interest income 

$ 6,201 &#160; $ 6,850 $ 6,167 Net interest spread (g) 3.05 &#160; % &#160; 3.72 % 3.42 % Net yield on interest-earning assets (h) 3.32 &#160; % 3.85 % 3.54 % ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) Includes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the effects of our hedging activities. 

(c) Nonperforming finance receivables and loans are included in the average balances. For information on our accounting policies regarding nonperforming status, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(d) Includes the average balances of finance receivables and loans, net that were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(e) Yield includes gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles of $211 million, $170 million, and $344 million, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Excluding gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles, the annualized yield would be 4.81%, for both the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, and 6.05%, for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

(f) Represents interest expense on tax liabilities included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The interest expense on tax liabilities is included in the net yield on interest-earning assets and excluded from the interest spread. For more information on our accounting policies regarding income taxes, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(g) Net interest spread represents the difference between the rate on total interest-earning assets and the rate on total interest-bearing liabilities. 

(h) Net yield on interest-earning assets represents net financing revenue and other interest income as a percentage of total interest-earning assets. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents an analysis of the change in net financing revenue and other interest income due to the change in volume and yield/rate. 

##TABLE_START 2023 vs. 2022 Increase (decrease) due to (a) 2022 vs. 2021 (Decrease) increase due to (a) 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Volume Yield/rate Total Volume Yield/rate Total Assets Interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents $ 47 &#160; $ 231 &#160; $ 278 &#160; $ (10) $ 49 $ 39 Investment securities (81) 257 &#160; 176 &#160; (26) 251 225 Loans held-for-sale, net (10) 13 &#160; 3 &#160; 5 8 13 Finance receivables and loans, net 629 &#160; 2,292 &#160; 2,921 &#160; 778 853 1,631 Investment in operating leases, net (46) 54 &#160; 8 &#160; 13 (311) (298) Other earning assets (7) 12 &#160; 5 &#160; 5 11 16 Total interest-earning assets $ 3,391 &#160; $ 1,626 Liabilities Interest-bearing deposit liabilities $ 138 &#160; $ 3,694 &#160; $ 3,832 &#160; $ 30 $ 912 $ 942 Short-term borrowings (73) 39 &#160; (34) 20 86 106 Long-term debt 116 &#160; 122 &#160; 238 &#160; (46) (51) (97) Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,036 &#160; 951 Other liabilities n/m n/m 4 &#160; n/m n/m (8) Net financing revenue and other interest income $ (649) $ 683 ##TABLE_END n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change in volume and yield/rate. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Finance Receivables and Loans 

The tables below show the maturity of the finance receivables and loans portfolio and the distribution between fixed and floating interest rates based on the stated terms of the loan agreements. This portfolio is reported based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

Due in one year or less (a) Due after one year through five years Due after five years through fifteen years Due after fifteen years Total (b) Consumer automotive (c) (d) $ 1,014 &#160; $ 46,940 &#160; $ 36,432 &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; $ 84,386 &#160; Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance &#8212; &#160; 14 &#160; 534 &#160; 17,894 &#160; 18,442 &#160; Mortgage &#8212; Legacy &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; 183 &#160; 41 &#160; 225 &#160; Total consumer mortgage &#8212; &#160; 15 &#160; 717 &#160; 17,935 &#160; 18,667 &#160; Consumer other Credit Card 1,990 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1,990 &#160; Total consumer other 1,990 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1,990 &#160; Total consumer 3,004 &#160; 46,955 &#160; 37,149 &#160; 17,935 &#160; 105,043 &#160; Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 17,181 &#160; 611 &#160; 908 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 18,700 &#160; Other 1,052 &#160; 7,888 &#160; 750 &#160; 22 &#160; 9,712 &#160; Commercial real estate 456 &#160; 3,370 &#160; 2,211 &#160; 13 &#160; 6,050 &#160; Total commercial 18,689 &#160; 11,869 &#160; 3,869 &#160; 35 &#160; 34,462 &#160; Total finance receivables and loans (e) $ 21,693 &#160; $ 58,824 &#160; $ 41,018 &#160; $ 17,970 &#160; $ 139,505 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes loans with revolving terms (for example, wholesale floorplan loans, which are included within commercial and industrial, and credit cards). 

(b) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. 

(c) Certain consumer automotive loans are included in fair value hedging relationships. The amortized cost excludes a liability of $66 million related to basis adjustments for loans in closed portfolios with active hedges under the portfolio layer method at December 31, 2023. These basis adjustments would be allocated to the amortized cost of specific loans within the pool if the hedge was dedesignated. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(d) Includes RV loans. RV lending was discontinued in 2018. 

(e) Excludes Personal Lending finance receivables and loans within consumer other, which were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

##TABLE_START Loans due after one year (a) 

December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

Loans at fixed interest rates Loans at variable interest rates Total Consumer automotive (b) $ 83,372 &#160; $ &#8212; &#160; $ 83,372 &#160; Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 18,022 &#160; 420 &#160; 18,442 &#160; Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 65 &#160; 160 &#160; 225 &#160; Total consumer mortgage 18,087 &#160; 580 &#160; 18,667 &#160; Total consumer 101,459 &#160; 580 &#160; 102,039 &#160; Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 1,093 &#160; 426 &#160; 1,519 &#160; Other 98 &#160; 8,562 &#160; 8,660 &#160; Commercial real estate 4,033 &#160; 1,561 &#160; 5,594 &#160; Total commercial 5,224 &#160; 10,549 &#160; 15,773 &#160; Total finance receivables and loans (c) $ 106,683 &#160; $ 11,129 &#160; $ 117,812 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. 

(b) Certain consumer automotive loans are included in fair value hedging relationships. The amortized cost excludes a liability of $66 million related to basis adjustments for loans in closed portfolios with active hedges under the portfolio layer method at December 31, 2023. These basis adjustments would be allocated to the amortized cost of specific loans within the pool if the hedge was dedesignated. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(c) Excludes Personal Lending finance receivables and loans within consumer other, which were transferred to loans held-for-sale, and are included in assets of operations held-for-sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Deposit Liabilities 

The following table presents the average balances and interest rates paid for our deposit liabilities. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Average deposit rate Average balance (a) Average deposit rate Noninterest-bearing deposits $ 172 &#160; &#8212; &#160; % $ 193 &#8212; % Interest-bearing deposits Savings, money market, and checking accounts 100,999 &#160; 3.74 &#160; 105,798 1.36 Certificates of deposit (b) 51,916 &#160; 3.92 &#160; 37,189 1.47 Total deposit liabilities $ 153,087 &#160; 3.80 &#160; $ 143,180 1.39 ##TABLE_END

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) Includes brokered certificates of deposit average balance of $12.3 billion and $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. 

The following table presents the amounts of uninsured certificates of deposit, segregated by time remaining until maturity. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2023 ($ in millions) 

Three months or less Over three months through six months Over six months through twelve months Over twelve months Total Uninsured certificates of deposit $ 1,101 &#160; $ 840 &#160; $ 2,121 &#160; $ 1,253 &#160; $ 5,315 &#160; ##TABLE_END

As of December 31, 2023, we had $11.6 billion of deposit liabilities that are estimated to be uninsured. In some instances, deposits in excess of federal insurance limits may be insured based upon the number of account owners, beneficiaries, and accounts held. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

