 Item 1. Business 

Our Business 

Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, we, us, or our) is a financial-services company with $196.4 billion in assets as of December 31, 2023. The Company comprises the nation&#8217;s largest all-digital bank and an industry-leading automotive financing and insurance business, driven by a mission to &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; and be a relentless ally for customers and communities. The Company serves customers through a full range of online banking services (including deposits, mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending and credit-card products) and securities brokerage and investment advisory services. The Company also includes a corporate finance business that offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. On December 31, 2023, we committed to sell our point-of-sale financing business, Ally Lending. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Ally is a Delaware corporation and is registered as a BHC under the BHC Act and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, and Ally Credit Card, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Ally Bank&#8217;s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2023, Ally Bank had total assets of $186.1 billion and total nonaffiliate deposits of $154.7 billion. 

Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around (1) differentiating our company as a relentless ally for the financial well-being of consumer and commercial customers, (2) leveraging our &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; culture to drive enhanced value for our customers, communities, employees, and stockholders, (3) growing and diversifying our leading automotive, insurance, and digital-bank platforms through increased scale and expanded product solutions to meet customer needs, (4) driving ongoing customer growth and deepening relationships, (5) operating under efficient, disciplined risk management and capital allocation approaches, (6) out-executing our competition and creating differentiated advantages through continuous investment and evolution among our leading experiences, products and brand, and (7) delivering long-term value through sustainable financial results and stockholder returns. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and pursuing digital distribution channels for our products and services, including through our operation of a direct-lending platform and our work with dealers innovating in digital transactions&#8212;all while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within our other banking operations, including Mortgage Finance and Corporate Finance, we seek to expand our consumer and commercial banking products and services while providing a high level of customer service. We continue to focus on delivering significant growth and retention in deposit customers and balances while optimizing our cost of funds. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and growing their wealth. Ally Credit Card is our scalable, digital-first credit card platform that features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe Ally Credit Card enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term &#8220;loans&#8221; means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term &#8220;operating leases&#8221; means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle&#8217;s residual value. The terms &#8220;lend,&#8221; &#8220;finance,&#8221; and &#8220;originate&#8221; mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases, as applicable. The term &#8220;consumer&#8221; means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;commercial&#8221; means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;partnerships&#8221; means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. 

For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&#38;A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Industry and Competition 

The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, mortgage finance, point-of-sale personal lending, consumer credit cards, and deposits), securities brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Fintech companies also compete with us directly as well as indirectly through partnership with banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. 

Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. 

Regulation and Supervision 

We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks in the United States&#8212;at federal, state, and local levels&#8212;that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. We also have limited businesses and operations in Canada and other countries that must comply with expansive legal frameworks there as well. 

We are also subject to direct supervision and periodic examinations by various governmental agencies and industry SROs that are charged with overseeing the kinds of business activities in which we engage, including the FRB, the UDFI, the FDIC, the CFPB, the SEC, FINRA, and a number of state regulatory and licensing authorities such as the NYDFS. These agencies and organizations generally have broad authority and discretion in restricting and otherwise affecting our businesses and operations and may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us when, in the applicable agency&#8217;s or organization&#8217;s judgment, our businesses or operations fail to comply with applicable law, comport with safe and sound practices, or meet its supervisory expectations. We strive to maintain constructive relationships with supervisory authorities. 

This system of regulation, supervision, and examination is intended primarily for the protection and benefit of our depositors and other customers, the FDIC&#8217;s DIF, the banking and financial systems as a whole, and the broader economy&#8212;and not for the protection or benefit of our stockholders (except in the case of securities laws) or non-deposit creditors. The scope, intensity, and focus of this system can vary from time to time for reasons that range from the state of the economic and political environments to the performance of our businesses and operations, but for the foreseeable future, we expect to remain subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examinations. 

This section summarizes some relevant provisions of the principal statutes, regulations, and other laws that apply to us. The descriptions, however, are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by the full text and judicial or administrative interpretations of those laws and other laws that affect us. 

Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status 

Ally and IB Finance, a Delaware limited liability company, are BHCs under the BHC Act, and Ally has elected to be an FHC under the GLB Act. IB Finance is a direct subsidiary of Ally and the direct parent of Ally Bank, which is a commercial bank that is organized under the laws of the State of Utah and whose deposits are insured by the FDIC under the FDI Act. As BHCs, Ally and IB Finance are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the FRB. Ally Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the FRB, the UDFI, the FDIC, and the CFPB. 

&#8226; Permitted Activities &#8212; Under the BHC Act, BHCs and their subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and to closely related activities that are incident to banking. BHCs that qualify and elect to be treated as FHCs are generally permitted to engage, directly or indirectly through their nonbank subsidiaries, in a broader range of financial and related activities than those that are permissible for BHCs&#8212;for example, (1) underwriting, dealing in, and making a market in securities; (2) providing financial, investment, and economic advisory services; (3) underwriting insurance; and (4) merchant banking activities. The FRB regulates, supervises, and examines FHCs, as it does all BHCs, but insurance and securities activities conducted by an FHC or any of its nonbank subsidiaries are also regulated, supervised, and examined by functional regulators such as state insurance commissioners, the SEC, and FINRA. The expanded powers permitted to FHCs include the ability to provide insurance products and services, to deliver our SmartAuction finder services and a number of related vehicle-remarketing services for third parties, and to offer certain 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

kinds of brokerage and advisory services. To remain eligible to conduct and expand these broader financial and related activities, Ally must continue to be treated as an FHC. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section below titled Basel Capital Framework for additional information. In addition, our ability to expand these financial and related activities or to make acquisitions generally requires that we achieve a rating of satisfactory or better under the CRA. 

Further, under the BHC Act, we may be subject to approvals, conditions, and other restrictions when seeking to acquire control over another entity or its assets. For this purpose, &#8220;control&#8221; includes (a) directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding the power to vote 25% or more of any class of the entity&#8217;s voting securities, (b) controlling in any manner the election of a majority of the entity&#8217;s directors, trustees, or individuals performing similar functions, or (c) directly or indirectly exercising a controlling influence over the management or policies of the entity. Under rules of the FRB, whether Ally is presumed to have a &#8220;controlling influence&#8221; over an entity is determined by applying a framework of tiered presumptions of control that are based on the percentage of a class of voting securities held by Ally and nine other relationships with the entity. For example, Ally would be presumed to have such a controlling influence with less than 5% of a class of voting securities and any of the following: a management agreement with the entity, one-half or more of the directors on the entity&#8217;s board, or one-third or more of the total equity in the entity. 

&#8226; Enhanced Prudential Standards &#8212; Ally is subject to enhanced prudential standards that have been established by the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCP Act and as applied to Category IV firms under rules of the U.S. banking agencies that tailor how the enhanced prudential standards apply across large banking organizations (the Tailoring Rules). As a Category IV firm, Ally is (1) subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle, (2) required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB, (3) exempted from company-run capital stress testing requirements, (4) required to maintain a buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net stressed cash outflows over a 30-day planning horizon, (5) exempted from the requirements of the LCR and the net stable funding ratio (provided that our average wSTWF continues to remain under $50 billion), (6) exempted from the requirements of the supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, and single-counterparty credit limits, and (7) eligible to exclude most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income from regulatory capital. Even so, we are subject to rules enabling the FRB to conduct supervisory stress testing on a more or less frequent basis based on our financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities or based on risks to the U.S. economy. Further, we are subject to rules requiring the resubmission of our capital plan if we determine that there has been or will be a material change in our risk profile, financial condition, or corporate structure since we last submitted the capital plan or if the FRB determines that (a) our capital plan is incomplete or our capital plan or internal capital adequacy process contains material weaknesses, (b) there has been, or will likely be, a material change in our risk profile (including a material change in our business strategy or any risk exposure), financial condition, or corporate structure, or (c) the BHC stress scenario(s) are not appropriate for our business model and portfolios, or changes in the financial markets or the macroeconomic outlook that could have a material impact on our risk profile and financial condition require the use of updated scenarios. While a resubmission is pending, without prior approval of the FRB, we would generally be prohibited from paying dividends, repurchasing our common stock, or making other capital distributions. In addition, to satisfy the FRB in its review of our capital plan, we may be required to further cease or limit these capital distributions or to issue capital instruments that could be dilutive to stockholders. The FRB also may prevent us from maintaining or expanding lending or other business activities. 

&#8226; Capital Adequacy Requirements &#8212; Ally and Ally Bank are subject to various capital adequacy requirements. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section below titled Basel Capital Framework for additional information. 

&#8226; Capital Planning and Stress Tests &#8212; Under the Tailoring Rules, Ally is generally subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle and exempted from mandated company-run capital stress testing requirements. Ally is also required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB. 

Ally&#8217;s annual capital plan must include an assessment of its expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any dividend or other capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on our capital. The plan must also include a detailed description of Ally&#8217;s process for assessing capital adequacy, including a discussion of how Ally, under expected and stressful conditions, will maintain capital commensurate with its risks and above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, will serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank, and will maintain sufficient capital to continue its operations by maintaining ready access to funding, meeting its obligations to creditors and other counterparties, and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. 

The Tailoring Rules align capital planning, supervisory stress testing, and stress capital buffer requirements for large banking organizations, like Ally. As a Category IV firm, Ally is expected to have the ability to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test&#8212;and receive a correspondingly updated stress capital buffer requirement&#8212;in a year in which Ally would not generally be subject to the supervisory stress test. Refer to the section below titled Basel Capital Framework for further discussion about our stress capital buffer requirements. During a year in which Ally does not undergo a supervisory stress test, we would receive an updated stress capital buffer requirement only to reflect our updated planned common-stock dividends. Ally was subject to the 2022 supervisory stress test and did not elect to participate in the 2023 supervisory stress test. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; Resolution Planning and Resolution-Related Requirements &#8212; Under rules of the FDIC, Ally Bank is required to periodically submit to the FDIC a resolution plan (commonly known as a living will) that would enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve Ally Bank in the event of its insolvency under the FDI Act in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of Ally Bank&#8217;s failure (two business days if the failure occurs on a day other than Friday), maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss realized by creditors in the resolution. If the FDIC determines that the resolution plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not adequately remediated in a timely manner, the FDIC may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us. In June 2021, the FDIC issued a Statement on Resolution Plans for Insured Depository Institutions, which in part establishes a three-year filing cycle for banks with $100 billion or more in total assets, like Ally Bank. In August 2023, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would require each insured depository institution with $100 billion or more in total assets, like Ally Bank, to submit a full resolution plan with an identified strategy for ensuring timely access to insured deposits, maximizing value from the disposition of assets, minimizing any losses realized by creditors, and addressing potential financial-stability risks. Each resolution plan also would be subject to more stringent standards on its assumptions, content, and reviews. Covered insured depository institutions would need to submit a full resolution plan every two years with interim supplements in non-submission years. Ally Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan on December 1, 2022. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Ally is no longer required to submit to the FRB and the FDIC a plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of Ally and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable insolvency laws in the event of future material financial distress or failure. 

&#8226; Limitations on Bank and BHC Dividends and Other Capital Distributions &#8212; Federal and Utah law place a number of conditions, limits, and other restrictions on dividends and other capital distributions that may be paid by Ally Bank to IB Finance and thus indirectly to Ally. In addition, even if the FRB does not require us to resubmit our capital plan as described earlier in Capital Planning and Stress Tests , Ally and IB Finance may be precluded from or limited in paying dividends or other capital distributions without the FRB&#8217;s approval under certain circumstances&#8212;for example, if Ally or IB Finance were to not meet minimum regulatory capital ratios after giving effect to the distributions. FRB supervisory guidance also directs BHCs like us to consult with the FRB prior to increasing dividends, implementing common stock-repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Further, the U.S. banking agencies are authorized to prohibit an insured depository institution, like Ally Bank, or a BHC, like Ally, from engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices and, depending upon the circumstances, could find that paying a dividend or other capital distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For information about our capital actions, including repurchases of and cash dividends on our common stock, refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, will continue to be subject to the FRB&#8217;s review and our internal governance requirements, including approval by our Board. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases also will be subject to various factors, including Ally&#8217;s capital and liquidity positions, accounting and regulatory considerations (including any restrictions that may be imposed by the FRB), taxation of share repurchases, financial and operational performance, alternative uses of capital, common-stock price, and general market conditions, and may be extended, modified, or discontinued at any time. 

&#8226; Transactions with Affiliates &#8212; Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB&#8217;s Regulation W prevent Ally and its nonbank subsidiaries from taking undue advantage of the benefits afforded to Ally Bank as a depository institution, including its access to federal deposit insurance and the FRB&#8217;s discount window. Pursuant to these laws, covered transactions&#8212;including Ally Bank&#8217;s extensions of credit to and asset purchases from its affiliates, credit exposures to affiliates arising from derivative transactions, securities lending and borrowing transactions, and acceptance of affiliate-issued debt obligations (other than securities) as collateral&#8212;are generally subject to meaningful restrictions. For example, unless otherwise exempted, (1) covered transactions are limited to 10% of Ally Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus in the case of any individual affiliate and 20% of Ally Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus in the case of all affiliates; (2) Ally Bank&#8217;s credit transactions with an affiliate are generally subject to stringent collateralization requirements; (3) with few exceptions, Ally Bank may not purchase any low quality asset from an affiliate; and (4) covered transactions must be conducted on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. In addition, transactions between Ally Bank and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are either substantially the same as or more beneficial to Ally Bank than those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving nonaffiliates. 

These laws include an attribution rule that treats a transaction between Ally Bank and a nonaffiliate as a transaction between Ally Bank and an affiliate to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of or transferred to the affiliate. 

&#8226; Source of Strength &#8212; Ally is required to serve as a source of financial strength for Ally Bank and to commit resources to support Ally Bank in circumstances when Ally might not otherwise elect to do so. The functional regulator of any nonbank subsidiary of Ally, however, may prevent that subsidiary from directly or indirectly contributing its financial support, and if that were to preclude Ally from serving as an adequate source of financial strength, the FRB may instead require the divestiture of Ally Bank and impose operating restrictions pending such a divestiture. 

&#8226; Orderly Liquidation Authority &#8212; Under the Dodd-Frank Act, if a BHC&#8217;s failure would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States and other specified conditions were met, the BHC may be subjected to an FDIC-administered resolution regime called the orderly liquidation authority as an alternative to bankruptcy. If Ally were to be placed into receivership 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC as receiver would have considerable rights and powers in liquidating and winding up Ally, including the ability to assign assets and liabilities without the need for creditor consent or prior court review and the ability to differentiate and determine priority among creditors. In doing so, moreover, the FDIC&#8217;s primary goal would be a liquidation that mitigates risk to the financial stability of the United States and that minimizes moral hazard. 

&#8226; Acceptance of Brokered Deposits &#8212; Under FDICIA and the PCA framework described later in Basel Capital Framework , insured depository institutions such as Ally Bank must be well capitalized or, with a waiver from the FDIC, adequately capitalized in order to accept brokered deposits, and even adequately capitalized institutions are subject to some restrictions on the rates they may offer for brokered deposits. At December 31, 2023, Ally Bank met the capital ratios necessary to be classified as well capitalized under the PCA framework. Our brokered deposits totaled $11.0 billion at December 31, 2023, which represented 7.1% of total deposit liabilities. 

&#8226; Enforcement Authority &#8212; The FRB possesses extensive authorities and powers to regulate and supervise the conduct of Ally&#8217;s businesses and operations. If the FRB were to take the position that Ally or any of its subsidiaries have violated any law or commitment or engaged in any unsafe or unsound practice, formal or informal enforcement and other supervisory actions could be taken by the FRB against Ally, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties (such as directors, officers, and agents). The UDFI and the FDIC have similarly expansive authorities and powers over Ally Bank and its subsidiaries. For example, the FRB, the UDFI, or the FDIC could order us to cease and desist from engaging in specified activities or practices or could affirmatively compel us to correct specified violations or practices. Some or all of these governmental authorities also would have the power, as applicable, to issue administrative orders against us that can be judicially enforced, to direct us to increase capital and liquidity, to limit our dividends and other capital distributions, to restrict or redirect the growth of our assets, businesses, and operations, to compel us to change our practices and remediate harm alleged to have been suffered by consumers or others, to assess civil money penalties against us, to remove our officers and directors, to require the divestiture or the retention of assets or entities, to terminate deposit insurance, or to force us into bankruptcy, conservatorship, or receivership. These actions could directly affect not only Ally, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties but also Ally&#8217;s counterparties, stockholders, and creditors and its commitments, arrangements, and other dealings with them. 

In addition, the CFPB has broad authorities and powers to enforce federal consumer-protection laws involving financial products and services. The CFPB has exercised these authorities and powers through public enforcement actions, lawsuits, and consent orders and through nonpublic enforcement actions. 

The SEC, FINRA, the Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and other domestic or foreign governmental authorities also have an array of means at their disposal to regulate and enforce matters within their jurisdiction that could impact Ally&#8217;s businesses and operations. 

Basel Capital Framework 

The FRB and other U.S. banking agencies have adopted risk-based and leverage capital rules that establish minimum capital-to-asset ratios for BHCs, like Ally, and depository institutions, like Ally Bank. 

The risk-based capital ratios are based on a banking organization&#8217;s RWAs, which are generally determined under the standardized approach applicable to Ally and Ally Bank by (1) assigning on-balance-sheet exposures to broad risk-weight categories according to the counterparty or, if relevant, the guarantor or collateral (with higher risk weights assigned to categories of exposures perceived as representing greater risk), and (2) multiplying off-balance-sheet exposures by specified credit conversion factors to calculate credit equivalent amounts and assigning those credit equivalent amounts to the relevant risk-weight categories. The leverage ratio, in contrast, is based on an institution&#8217;s average unweighted on-balance-sheet exposures. 

Under U.S. Basel III, Ally and Ally Bank must maintain a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%, and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8%. On top of the minimum risk-based capital ratios, Ally and Ally Bank are subject to a capital conservation buffer requirement, which must be satisfied entirely with capital that qualifies as Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Failure to maintain more than the full amount of the capital conservation buffer requirement would result in automatic restrictions on the ability of Ally and Ally Bank to make capital distributions, including dividend payments and stock repurchases and redemptions, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. U.S. Basel III also subjects Ally and Ally Bank to a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. While the capital conservation buffer requirement for Ally Bank is fixed at 2.5% of RWAs, the capital conservation buffer requirement for a Category IV firm, like Ally, is equal to its stress capital buffer requirement. The stress capital buffer requirement for Ally, in turn, is the greater of 2.5% and the result of the following calculation: (1) the difference between Ally&#8217;s starting and minimum projected Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus (2) the sum of the dollar amount of Ally&#8217;s planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of its nine-quarter capital planning horizon, as a percentage of RWAs. As of December 31, 2023, the stress capital buffer requirement for Ally was 2.5%. 

Ally and Ally Bank are currently subject to the U.S. Basel III standardized approach for counterparty credit risk but not to the U.S. Basel III advanced approaches for credit risk or operational risk. Ally is also not currently subject to the U.S. market-risk capital rule, which applies only to banking organizations with significant trading assets and liabilities. Since Ally and Ally Bank are currently not subject to the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules, we elected to apply a one-time option to exclude most components of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss from regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, Ally had $3.8 billion and 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

$4.1 billion, respectively, of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of applicable income taxes, that was excluded from Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Refer to the discussion below about rules proposed by the U.S. banking agencies in 2023 that would require us to recognize all components of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss in regulatory capital, except gains and losses on cash-flow hedges where the hedged items are not recognized on our balance sheet at fair value. Refer also to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details about our accumulated other comprehensive loss. 

The risk-based capital ratios and the Tier 1 leverage ratio play a central role in PCA, which is an enforcement framework used by the U.S. banking agencies to constrain the activities of depository institutions based on their levels of regulatory capital. Five categories have been established using thresholds for the Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the total risk-based capital ratio, and the Tier 1 leverage ratio: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including any payment of a cash dividend or a management fee to its BHC, if the depository institution would become undercapitalized after the distribution. An undercapitalized institution is also subject to growth limitations and must submit and fulfill a capital restoration plan. Although BHCs are not subject to the PCA framework, the FRB is empowered to compel a BHC to take measures&#8212;such as the execution of financial or performance guarantees&#8212;when PCA is required in connection with one of its depository-institution subsidiaries. At December 31, 2023, Ally Bank met the capital ratios required to be well capitalized under the PCA framework. 

At December 31, 2023, Ally and Ally Bank were in compliance with their regulatory capital requirements. For an additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

On January 1, 2020, we adopted CECL. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our allowance for loan losses accounting policy. Under a rule finalized by the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies in 2020, we delayed recognizing the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until after a two-year deferral period, which for us extended through December 31, 2021. Beginning on January 1, 2022, we were required to phase in 25% of the previously deferred estimated capital impact of CECL, with an additional 25% to be phased in at the beginning of each subsequent year until fully phased in by the first quarter of 2025. The estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital that we deferred and began phasing in on January 1, 2022, is generally calculated as the entire day-one impact at adoption plus 25% of the subsequent change in allowance during the two-year deferral period. As of December 31, 2023, the total deferred impact on Common Equity Tier 1 capital related to our adoption of CECL was $591 million. 

In April 2023, in a statement accompanying the review of the FRB&#8217;s supervision and regulation of SVB, FRB Vice Chair for Supervision Barr highlighted a plan to revisit the Tailoring Rules and develop stronger capital, liquidity, stress-testing, and other standards for Category IV firms like Ally. In July 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a proposed rule to customize and implement revisions to the global Basel III capital framework that were approved by the Basel Committee in December 2017 (commonly known as the Basel III endgame or as Basel IV). For regulatory capital, the proposed rule would eliminate the effect of the Tailoring Rules by requiring the recognition of most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss and the application of deductions, limitations, and criteria for specified capital investments, minority interests, and TLAC holdings. For each of the risk-based capital ratios, a large banking organization, like Ally, would calculate and be bound by the lower of two alternatives: one version of the ratio based on an expanded risk-based approach prescribed in the proposed rule and one version of the ratio based on the standardized approach as modified by the proposed rule. All capital buffer requirements, including the stress capital buffer requirement, would apply regardless of whether the expanded risk-based approach or the standardized approach produces the lower ratio. Under the expanded risk-based approach, total RWAs would equal the sum of the RWAs for credit risk, equity risk, operational risk, market risk, and CVA risk as set forth in the proposed rule minus any amount of the banking organization&#8217;s adjusted allowance for credit losses that is not included in Tier 2 capital and any amount of allocated transfer risk reserves. Under the standardized approach, total RWAs would be calculated using the existing rules with a revised methodology for determining RWAs for market risk, and a required application of the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk for derivative exposures. Category IV firms would be further required under the proposed rule to project their risk-based capital ratios under baseline conditions in their capital plans and related reports using the RWA-calculation approach that results in their binding risk-based capital ratios as of the start of the projection horizon. The proposed rule also would roll back additional elements of the Tailoring Rules by applying to Category IV firms the supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, and enhanced public disclosure and reporting requirements. Under the proposed rule, a three-year transition period from July 1, 2025, to June 30, 2028, would apply to the recognition of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss in regulatory capital and the use of the expanded risk-based approach. The phase-in of accumulated other comprehensive income and loss is expected to significantly affect our levels of regulatory capital. While we believe that this would be manageable, we also anticipate that our levels of regulatory capital would need to be gradually increased in advance of and during the proposed transition period. As for the proposed changes to RWAs, while we continue to evaluate the effects of individual provisions and the interplay among them as well as potential management actions in response, the impact is not currently expected to be significant in the aggregate if the proposed rule were adopted in its existing form. Since the proposed rule was issued, we have been engaged with research and advocacy groups to inform the rulemaking process and better understand the impacts of the proposed rule on banking organizations of various sizes and complexities&#8212;as well as the competitive environment more broadly&#8212;and likewise encourage the U.S. banking agencies to closely study these impacts and their wider implications. 

In August 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued two proposed rules to improve the resolvability of Category IV firms, like Ally. The first proposed rule would require Category II, III, and IV firms, their consolidated IDI subsidiaries, and other institutions to issue and maintain minimum amounts of eligible long-term debt in an amount that is the greater of (i) 6% of total RWAs, (ii) 3.5% of average total consolidated assets, and (iii) 2.5% of total leverage exposure. Covered IDIs, like Ally Bank, that are consolidated subsidiaries of covered entities, like Ally, would be required to issue eligible long-term debt internally to a company that consolidates the covered IDI, which would 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

in turn be required to purchase that long-term debt. Only long-term debt instruments that are most readily able to absorb losses in a resolution proceeding would qualify, and the operations of covered entities would be subject to clean-holding-company requirements such as prohibitions and limitations on their liabilities to unaffiliated entities. Under the proposed rule, a transition period would apply with 25%, 50%, and 100% of the long-term-debt requirements coming into effect by the end of the first, second, and third years, respectively, after finalization of the rule. The second proposed rule, which was issued solely by the FDIC, would require each insured depository institution with $100 billion or more in total assets, like Ally Bank, to submit a full resolution plan with an identified strategy for ensuring timely access to insured deposits, maximizing value from the disposition of assets, minimizing any losses realized by creditors, and addressing potential financial stability risks. Each resolution plan also would be subject to more stringent standards on its assumptions, content, and reviews. Covered IDIs would need to submit a full resolution plan every two years with interim supplements in non-submission years. We are still assessing the impact of these two proposed rules, but due to the current structure and amount of debt instruments issued by Ally and Ally Bank, expect the long-term-debt rule in particular to significantly affect us. 

Whether and when final rules related to these proposals may be adopted and take effect, as well as what changes to the proposed rules may be reflected in any final rules after the comment periods, remain unclear. Also, beyond these proposed rules, more stringent and less tailored liquidity, stress-testing, and other standards for Category IV firms, like Ally, may be forthcoming, including those that may reinstate the LCR, require more rigorous liquidity stress testing, and return Ally to supervisory stress testing on an annual cycle. 

Insured Depository Institution Status 

Ally Bank is an IDI and, as such, is required to file periodic reports with the FDIC about its financial condition. Total assets of Ally Bank were $186.1 billion at December 31, 2023, $181.9 billion at December 31, 2022, and $172.8 billion at December 31, 2021. 

Ally Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC in the standard insurance amounts per depositor for each account ownership category as prescribed by the FDI Act. Insured depository institutions with two million or more deposit accounts, including Ally Bank, are required by the FDIC to establish and maintain systems and processes designed to facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits in the event of a failure. Deposit insurance is funded through assessments on Ally Bank and other insured depository institutions. The FDIC assesses premiums from each institution based on its average consolidated total assets minus its average tangible equity, while utilizing a scorecard method to determine each institution&#8217;s risk to the DIF. The FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DIF is not funded to its regulatory-mandated DRR. Currently, the FDIC is required to maintain a DRR of 1.35% under the FDI Act. In October 2022, the FDIC finalized a rule that increased the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules for all insured depository institutions by two basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The increased assessment rate is intended to improve the likelihood that the DRR will reach the required minimum of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028. On November 16, 2023, the FDIC finalized a rule that imposes a special assessment to recover the costs to the DIF resulting from the FDIC&#8217;s use, in March 2023, of the systemic risk exception to the least-cost resolution test under the FDI Act in connection with the receiverships of SVB and Signature. The FDIC estimated in approving the rule that those assessed losses total approximately $16.3 billion. The rule provides that this loss estimate will be periodically adjusted, which will affect the amount of the special assessment. Under the rule, the assessment base is the estimated uninsured deposits that an IDI reported in its Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (&#8220;Call Report&#8221;) at December 31, 2022, excluding the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits. The special assessments will be collected at an annual rate of approximately 13.4 basis points per year (3.36 basis points per quarter) over eight quarters in 2024 and 2025, with the first assessment period beginning January 1, 2024. Because the estimated loss pursuant to the systemic risk determination will be periodically adjusted, the FDIC retains the ability to cease collection early, extend the special assessment collection period, and impose a final shortfall special assessment on a one-time basis. Ally expects the special assessments to be tax deductible. The total of the assessments for Ally, based on Ally Bank&#8217;s uninsured deposits as of December 31, 2022, is estimated at $38 million, and such amount was recorded as an expense in the quarter of adoption (the quarter ending December 31, 2023). 

If an insured depository institution, like Ally Bank, were to become insolvent or if other specified events were to occur relating to its financial condition or the propriety of its actions, the FDIC may be appointed as conservator or receiver for the institution. In that capacity, the FDIC would have the power to (1) transfer assets and liabilities of the institution to another person or entity without the approval of the institution&#8217;s creditors; (2) require that its claims process be followed and to enforce statutory or other limits on damages claimed by the institution&#8217;s creditors; (3) enforce the institution&#8217;s contracts or leases according to their terms; (4) repudiate or disaffirm the institution&#8217;s contracts or leases; (5) seek to reclaim, recover, or recharacterize transfers of the institution&#8217;s assets or to exercise control over assets in which the institution may claim an interest; (6) enforce statutory or other injunctions; and (7) exercise a wide range of other rights, powers, and authorities, including those that could impair the rights and interests of all or some of the institution&#8217;s creditors. In addition, the administrative expenses of the conservator or receiver could be afforded priority over all or some of the claims of the institution&#8217;s creditors, and under the FDI Act, the claims of depositors (including the FDIC as subrogee of depositors) would enjoy priority over the claims of the institution&#8217;s unsecured creditors. 

Investments in Ally 

Because Ally Bank is an insured depository institution and Ally and IB Finance are BHCs, direct or indirect control of us&#8212;whether through the ownership of voting securities, influence over management or policies, or other means&#8212;is subject to approvals, conditions, and other restrictions under federal and state laws. Refer to the section above titled Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status for additional information. These laws may differ in their purposes, definitions and presumptions of control, and restrictions, which for example is the case as between the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire control of us in contravention of these laws. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Insurance Companies 

Some of our insurance operations&#8212;including in the United States, Canada, and Bermuda&#8212;are subject to certain minimum aggregate capital requirements, net asset and dividend restrictions, and rules and regulations promulgated by various U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies. Under state and foreign insurance laws, dividend distributions may be made only from statutory unassigned surplus with approvals required from applicable regulatory authorities for dividends in excess of statutory limitations. Our insurance operations are also subject to applicable state and foreign laws generally governing insurance companies, as well as laws addressing products that are not regulated as insurance, such as VSCs and GAP waivers. 

Consumer Finance 

Our retail-automotive, consumer-mortgage, personal-lending, and credit-card businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws. These laws, for example, may impose licensing obligations and financial requirements; limit the interest rates, finance charges, and other fees that can be charged; regulate the use of credit reports and the reporting of credit information; impose underwriting and disclosure requirements; regulate marketing techniques and practices; require the safeguarding of nonpublic information about customers; and regulate servicing practices, including in connection with assessments, collection and foreclosure activities, claims handling, and investment and interest payments on escrow accounts. The laws applicable to consumer finance are complex and subject to change and to changes in interpretation and enforcement. Further, many existing laws were enacted without anticipating technological and related innovations&#8212;including those utilized by fintech companies and the banks and financial-services providers that partner with them&#8212;and as a result, the application of these legal frameworks is not always clear and can be subject to wide supervisory and enforcement discretion. 

Ally Invest Subsidiaries 

Ally Invest Securities LLC (Ally Invest Securities) is registered as a securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, is registered with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as a municipal securities broker-dealer, and is a member of FINRA and SIPC. As a result, Ally Invest Securities and its personnel are subject to extensive requirements under the Exchange Act, SEC regulations, SRO rules, and state laws, which collectively cover all aspects of the firm&#8217;s securities activities&#8212;including sales and trading practices, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, privacy, anti-money laundering, financial and other reporting, supervision, misuse of material nonpublic information, conduct of its business in accordance with just and equitable principles of trade, and personnel qualifications. The firm operates as an introducing broker and clears all transactions, including all customer transactions, through a third-party clearing broker-dealer on a fully disclosed basis. 

Ally Invest Advisors Inc.(Ally Invest Advisors) is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC. As a result, the firm is subject to a host of requirements governing investment advisers and their personnel under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and related rules and regulations, including certain fiduciary and other obligations with respect to its relationships with its investment advisory clients. 

Regulators conduct periodic examinations of Ally Invest Securities and Ally Invest Advisors and regularly review reports that the firms are required to submit on an ongoing basis. Violations of relevant regulatory requirements could result in adverse consequences for the firms and their personnel, including censure, penalties and fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, and restriction, suspension or expulsion from the securities or commodity-futures industries. 

Other Laws 

Ally is subject to numerous federal, state, and local statutes, regulations, and other laws, and the possibility of violating applicable law presents ongoing compliance, operational, reputation, and other risks to Ally. Some of the other more significant laws to which we are subject include: 

&#8226; Privacy and Data Security &#160;&#8212; The GLB Act and related regulations impose obligations on financial institutions, within specified parameters and circumstances, to safeguard consumer information maintained by them, to provide notice of their privacy practices to consumers, and to allow consumers to opt out of information sharing with unaffiliated parties. Related regulatory guidance also directs financial institutions to notify consumers in specified cases of unauthorized access to sensitive consumer information. Another U.S. banking agency rule requires a BHC, such as Ally, and a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as Ally Bank, to notify applicable U.S. banking agencies within 36 hours of certain incidents that may have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, its ability to deliver services to a material portion of the financial institution&#8217;s customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations, or impact the stability of the financial sector. The rule also requires bank service providers to notify us of any computer security incident that has caused, or is reasonably likely to cause, a material service disruption for four or more hours. In addition, in July 2023, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies, such as Ally, to disclose material cybersecurity incidents within four business days and to disclose on an annual basis material information regarding cybersecurity risk management, strategy, and governance. Most states have also enacted laws requiring notice of specified cases of unauthorized access to information. For example, the NYDFS has imposed significant requirements on regulated entities to establish cybersecurity programs and policies, to designate chief information security officers, to comply with notice and reporting obligations, and to take other actions in connection with the security of their information. In addition, comprehensive privacy laws have been enacted in California that require regulated entities to establish measures to identify, manage, secure, track, produce, and delete personal information. 

On October 19, 2023, the CFPB proposed a new rule that would require a provider of payment accounts or products, such as a bank, to make data available to consumers upon request regarding the products or services they obtain from the provider. Any such data provider would also have to make such data available to third parties, with the consumer's express authorization and through an 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

interface that satisfies formatting, performance and security standards, for the purpose of such third parties providing the consumer with financial products or services requested by the consumer. Data that would be required to be made available under the rule would include transaction information, account balance, account and routing numbers, terms and conditions, upcoming bill information, and certain account verification data. The proposed rule is intended to give consumers control over their financial data, including with whom it is shared, and encourage competition in the provision of consumer financial products or services. For banks with at least $50 billion and less than $500 billion in total assets, compliance with the proposed rule's requirements would be required approximately one year after adoption of the final rule. 

&#8226; Volcker Rule &#160;&#8212; Section 13 of the BHC Act and its implementing regulations (commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule) prohibit banking entities, subject to limited exceptions, from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in or sponsoring covered funds. The Volcker Rule contains exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, and trading in U.S. government and agency obligations. The Volcker Rule also permits the retention of ownership interests in certain types of funds and the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. For firms with limited trading assets and liabilities, like Ally, the regulatory agencies have simplified and streamlined compliance requirements under the Volcker Rule. The regulatory agencies also have clarified that banking entities may engage in activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address, including in connection with specified credit funds, venture-capital funds, family-wealth-management vehicles, and customer-facilitation vehicles. 

&#8226; Fair Lending Laws &#160;&#8212; The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and similar fair-lending laws (collectively, Fair Lending Laws) generally prohibit a creditor from discriminating against an applicant or borrower in any aspect of a credit transaction on the basis of specified characteristics known as prohibited bases, such as race, gender, and religion. Creditors are also required under the Fair Lending Laws to follow a number of highly prescriptive rules, including rules requiring credit decisions to be made promptly, notices of adverse actions to be given, and, in the case of mortgage lenders of a certain size, anonymized data and information about mortgage applicants and credit decisions to be gathered and made publicly available. 

&#8226; Fair Credit Reporting Act &#160;&#8212; The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates the dissemination of credit reports by credit reporting agencies, requires users of credit reports to provide specified notices to the subjects of those reports, imposes standards on the furnishing of information to credit reporting agencies, obligates furnishers to maintain reasonable procedures to deal with the risk of identity theft, addresses the sharing of specified kinds of information with affiliates and third parties, and regulates the use of credit reports to make preapproved offers of credit and insurance to consumers. 

&#8226; Truth in Lending Act &#160;&#8212; The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and Regulation Z, which implements TILA, require lenders to provide borrowers with uniform, understandable information about the terms and conditions in certain credit transactions. These rules apply to Ally and its subsidiaries when they extend credit to consumers and require, in the case of certain loans, conspicuous disclosure of the finance charge and annual percentage rate, as applicable. In addition, if an advertisement for credit states specific credit terms, Regulation Z requires that the advertisement state only those terms that actually are or will be arranged or offered by the creditor together with specified notices. The CFPB in recent years has issued substantial amendments to the mortgage requirements under Regulation Z, and additional changes are likely in the future. Amendments to Regulation Z and Regulation X, which implements the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, require integrated mortgage loan disclosures to be provided for applications received on or after October 3, 2015. Further, TILA imposes a number of restrictions on credit-card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer&#8217;s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes certain disclosure requirements related to provision of open-end credit. 

&#8226; Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money-Laundering Requirements &#160; &#8212; The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, contains provisions designed to detect and prevent the use of the U.S. financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank Secrecy Act generally requires banks, certain other financial institutions, and, in certain cases, BHCs to undertake activities such as maintaining an anti-money-laundering program, verifying the identity of clients, monitoring for and reporting on suspicious transactions, reporting on cash transactions exceeding specified thresholds, and responding to certain requests for information by regulatory authorities and law-enforcement agencies. 

In January 2021, the Bank Secrecy Act was amended by the AMLA, which comprehensively reforms and modernizes U.S. anti-money-laundering laws. The AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money-laundering compliance for financial institutions, requires the U.S. Treasury Department to develop standards for evaluating technology and internal processes for Bank Secrecy Act compliance, directs the FinCEN to establish a registration database of beneficial-ownership information that designated companies will be required to report, and expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority and available sanctions for specified Bank Secrecy Act violations. In June 2021, FinCEN issued the priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy, as required under the AMLA. The priorities include corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and proliferation financing. Many provisions of the AMLA will require additional rulemakings, reports, and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend at least in part on their development and implementation. 

FinCEN issued two of three rulemakings required under the AMLA to implement the requirements of the Corporate Transparency Act (CTA). First, the beneficial ownership information (BOI) reporting rule, effective January 1, 2024, establishes the requirements for reporting companies to submit their beneficial ownership and company applicant information to FinCEN. On 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

December 22, 2023, FinCEN published the second rule, which establishes the standards for financial institutions and government entities to access BOI reported to FinCEN. The third and final CTA rulemaking, once published, will make amendments to the beneficial ownership requirements of FinCEN&#8217;s existing Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Rule. 

&#8226; Community Reinvestment Act &#8212; Under the CRA, a bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income persons and neighborhoods. Although the CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs, banks are rated on their performance in meeting the needs of their communities. 

In its most recent performance evaluation in 2023, Ally Bank received an &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; rating. Ally Bank operated under a three-year CRA strategic plan (2020&#8211;2022) that had been approved by the FRB and is currently operating under a four-year CRA strategic plan (2023&#8211;2026) that also has been approved by the FRB. Failure by Ally Bank to maintain a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; or better rating under the CRA may adversely affect our ability to expand our financial and related activities as an FHC or make acquisitions. Refer to the section above titled Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status for additional information. 

On October 24, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule to modernize their regulations related to the CRA. The final rule amends their CRA regulations by introducing new tests to evaluate the CRA performance of banks, which most significantly impacts banks with over $2 billion in assets and imposes additional requirements on banks with over $10 billion in assets. Major changes to the CRA regulations include modifications related to the delineation of assessment areas, the overall evaluation framework including performance standards and metrics, the definition of community development activities, and data collection and reporting. Most provisions of the final rule will become effective on January 1, 2026, and the data reporting requirements will become effective on January 1, 2027. While we are still evaluating the final rule, it could impact Ally including our CRA program, business strategies, allocation of resources, and technology requirements. 

&#8226; LIBOR Act &#8212; In March 2022, the Adjustable Interest Rate Act (the LIBOR Act) was enacted. The LIBOR Act provides a uniform approach for replacing LIBOR as a reference interest rate in tough legacy contracts when LIBOR is no longer published or is no longer representative. Tough legacy contracts are contracts that do not include effective fallback provisions, for example, because they have no provisions for replacement benchmarks or provisions based on prior LIBOR values or dealer polls. Under the LIBOR Act, references to the most common tenors of LIBOR in these contracts will be replaced as a matter of law, without the need to be amended by the parties, to instead reference benchmark interest rates based on SOFR that will be identified by the FRB. The FRB issued a final rule effective February 27, 2023, to implement the LIBOR Act. 

&#8226; Executive and Incentive Compensation &#8212; Through guidance adopted in 2010, the U.S. banking agencies conveyed their expectation that banking organizations maintain incentive-compensation practices that are consistent with safety and soundness, even when these practices go beyond those needed to align shareholder and employee interests. To be consistent with safety and soundness, incentive-compensation arrangements at a banking organization should (i) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#8217;s board of directors. Enforcement action may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive-compensation arrangements or related risk-management, control, or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness, particularly when the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

In October 2022, the SEC adopted a final rule directing national securities exchanges and associations, including the NYSE, to implement listing standards that require all listed companies to adopt and comply with policies mandating the prompt recovery of erroneously awarded incentive-based compensation received by a current or former executive officer during the three fiscal years preceding a required accounting restatement, including a restatement to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that would result in a material misstatement if the error were corrected or left uncorrected in the current period. The final rule required each listed company, including Ally, to adopt a policy that complies with the NYSE listing standard no later than December 1, 2023. On October 9, 2023, Ally adopted its Requirements for the Recovery of Erroneously Awarded Incentive-Based Compensation under NYSE Listing Standard 303A.14, which is filed with this Form 10-K as Exhibit 97. 

&#8226; Climate-Related and other ESG Developments &#8212; In recent years, federal, state, and international lawmakers and regulators have increased their focus on financial institutions and other companies&#8217; risk oversight, disclosures and practices in connection with climate change and other environmental, social and governance (&#8220;ESG&#8221;) matters. Throughout 2023, there have been active and significant regulatory developments on these issues in the form of newly proposed, issued or implemented laws, rules, regulations, guidance and frameworks regarding climate change that impose, or will impose if and when effective, new requirements and expectations, including in connection with climate-related governance, risk management, disclosures, stress testing and scenario analysis. For example, in October 2023, the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC finalized interagency guidance on Principles for Climate-Related Financial Risk Management for Large Financial Institutions (&#8220;Principles&#8221;), which is applicable to regulated financial institutions with more than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including Ally. The Principles are intended to support efforts by large financial institutions to focus on key aspects of climate-related financial risk management and cover six areas: (1) governance; (2) policies, procedures, and limits; (3) strategic planning; (4) risk management; (5) data, risk measurement, and reporting; and (6) scenario analysis. In 2022, the SEC issued a proposed rule on the enhancement and standardization of climate-related disclosures 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

for investors. The proposed rule would require public issuers, including Ally, to significantly expand the scope of climate-related disclosures in their SEC filings. The SEC also announced plans to propose rules to require enhanced disclosure regarding human capital management and board diversity for public issuers. In addition, several states in which Ally operates have adopted or proposed statutes, regulations, and policies addressing climate change and other ESG issues, which impose, or will impose if and when effective, new and potentially divergent requirements and expectations with respect to these issues and are expected to result in additional compliance and reporting costs. In addition to legislation, regulation and guidance, regulators have also increasingly focused their enforcement and examination activities on such issues. For example, the SEC has created a Climate and ESG Task Force in the Division of Enforcement, whose purpose includes proactively identifying ESG-related misconduct such as material gaps or misstatements in the disclosure of climate risks. We continue to actively monitor the regulatory landscape surrounding these issues. 

Human Capital 

Our team members are integral to the success of our business, and central to our strategy is attracting, developing, and retaining talented individuals with the right skills to drive our business forward. We had approximately 11,100 and 11,600 employees as of December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively, which consisted primarily of full-time employees in the United States. The decrease in employees for the year ended December 31, 2023, was primarily attributable to selective workforce reductions. 

Our people-first human capital approach is guided by a philosophy that emphasizes care for our employees through professional and personal support, and offerings that drive them to better care for our customers and positively impact our communities. These components combine to propel better operational and financial results. We emphasize a working environment and company culture that embrace diverse talents, backgrounds, and perspectives and where colleagues feel valued as both individuals and members of the team. We measure human capital success through regular enterprise-wide engagement surveys and external workplace recognition. In 2023, we placed in the Top 10% of global workplaces for employee engagement for the 4th consecutive year, as measured by a third-party provider. We also were named to Fortune&#8217;s 100 Best Places to Work. 

Culture 

We recognize that our long-term success is underpinned by the strength of our purpose-driven culture&#8212;a culture that we believe sets us apart from the competition and gives us an advantage as we recruit and retain talented team members. Our people-first approach enables a winning, customer-centric philosophy focused on resiliency, adaptability, and a growth-mindset-oriented drive to &#8220;Be (Even) Better.&#8221; We strive to uphold our mantra to &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; through decisions and deeds at all levels of the organization, and we collectively commit to work with integrity and accountability and to uphold our core values in the workplace, the marketplace, and the community. Our culture is driven by our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values, where we emphasize that employees: 

&#8226; [ L ]ook externally &#8211; We strive to meet and exceed the needs of our customers with agility, speed, and innovation. We continually evolve, respond quickly, and deliver a superior customer experience by: 

&#9702; Finding strategies, processes, and initiatives that do right by our customers and their unique needs. 

&#9702; Being adaptable, resourceful, and proactive in problem-solving, incorporating different viewpoints and fresh ideas into their work. 

&#9702; Responding quickly to change and escalating issues immediately. 

&#8226; [ E ]xecute with excellence &#8211; Good enough is never enough. With a focus on continuous improvement, our actions are driven by sound analysis and an intense focus on excellence. Executing with excellence means: 

&#9702; Not stopping at the obvious answer&#8212;staying curious and respectfully challenging the status quo. 

&#9702; Being open to new ideas and ways to do better, be better and deliver more meaningful solutions. 

&#9702; Calling attention to risks, and challenging that which does not seem right while remaining respectful of established policies. 

&#8226; [ A ]ct with professionalism &#8211; We operate with integrity, hold ourselves and each other accountable, treat others with respect, and embrace diversity and inclusion. This is the cornerstone to our long-term success and at the very foundation of what it means to be an ally. With an emphasis on: 

&#9702; Celebrating the unique perspectives, talents, and contributions of others. 

&#9702; Leveraging the experience and knowledge that peers, colleagues, and leaders have to offer. 

&#9702; Creating strong and collaborative relationships built on mutual respect and accountability. 

&#8226; [ D ]eliver results &#8211; We are passionate about winning &#8211; for our customers, our teams, and our company. Success is measured at both the outcome and the path to achieve it. We deliver results by: 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#9702; Making an impact and bringing an inspired attitude, competitive spirit, and passion for real results. 

&#9702; Being transparent and communicating current and emerging risks. 

&#9702; Leading the charge and supporting the successes of others. 

Our annual, CEO-sponsored enterprise-wide recognition program, &#8220;LEADing the Way,&#8221; is designed to recognize employees whose leadership and performance consistently model our core values in one or more of the following areas: innovation, risk culture, corporate citizenship, customer experience, DE&#38;I, process improvement, or other attributes that reflect our overall culture. This award is one of the highest recognitions an employee can receive at Ally. In 2023, 83 team members were recognized with this award. Recipients are nominated based on exceeding their LEAD core value performance objective, which is required for all employees. Additionally, employees can nominate colleagues for the quarterly peer-to-peer &#8220;I&#8217;m An Ally&#8221; award recognition program that provides employees the opportunity to recognize the hard work of individuals across the entire organization. These recognition programs reinforce our continued commitment to our culture. 

Engagement 

Sustaining high levels of employee engagement is a key measure of our workplace success as we continue to build a company where our employees want to work, have purposeful careers, and feel empowered to make a difference. Throughout the year, a third-party provider administers confidential employee surveys to provide feedback on key strengths and opportunity areas for action-taking to improve our culture. 

The following table indicates our company-wide engagement survey results as measured by our third-party provider, based on a 100-point scale, as well as our participation rates for the survey. 

##TABLE_START 2023 2022 Ally score 84 85 Financial services benchmark 76 76 Ally employee participation % (a) 82 73 ##TABLE_END

(a) The participation rate benchmark from our third-party provider was 75% in both 2023 and 2022. 

For 2023 and 2022, our employee engagement scores were within the top 10% of all global companies that participated in the survey and at least eight points higher than the financial services industry benchmark. We believe that high levels of employee engagement reflect a productive and engaged workforce that takes care of our customers and communities, and contributes to our stable employee retention rate, which was approximately 84% and 85% for the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. 

Hiring, Retention, and Learning and Development 

We make significant investments in recruitment and employee development to attract and retain top talent, while fostering broader workforce development grounded in career mobility and advancement, and succession planning. Our recruitment process is vast and includes partnerships with universities, nonprofits and professional associations, including virtual and on-campus recruiting events, online platforms, conferences, internship and rotational programs, and referral bonuses to current employees. We offer regular trainings, mentoring, and other programs to invest in the growth and development of our employees. Our employee base receives continuing education courses relevant to our industry through internal learning courses, in addition to on-the-job training related to their function or a regulatory requirement. We offer targeted trainings for management and leadership development. We have organized a mentor-mentee program as an avenue for our employees to share knowledge, experience, and perspective and to foster the personal and professional growth of one another. Certain of our business lines offer rotational and leader development programs with the oversight and guidance of our HR business partners. We also provide financial support for continuing education through a tuition reimbursement program, as well as student loan repayment assistance and contributions to employees&#8217; 529 education savings plans. 

Our performance management process is designed to promote a culture of meaningful work, ongoing feedback and coaching, and employee-owned careers. Annually, employees partner with managers to create and align performance measurements considering company-wide objectives. We encourage quarterly performance review discussions between employees and managers and require year-end performance evaluations summarizing the ongoing performance, development, and career interest conversations that occurred throughout the year. Additionally, we provide a multi-rater feedback tool to solicit additional perspectives on employee contributions and a more holistic picture of employee performance and leadership. 

We empower our employees and encourage internal mobility, contributing to 16% and 22% of our existing eligible workforce that has been with Ally for at least one year receiving promotions or taking on new roles during the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our internal hiring rate was 40% and 28% in 2023 and 2022, respectively, further advancing employee career development and mobility. Our deliberate focus on mobility supports our ongoing retention efforts for top talent across the organization. The retention rate for employees that we determine to be high performers through year-end evaluation ratings were 96% and 94% for the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. On a routine basis, we perform talent and succession planning to develop and retain our top talent, including critical roles throughout the organization. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Total Rewards, Health, and Wellness 

Our compensation program offers market-competitive base pay and pay-for-performance incentives based on achieving individual and company goals. In addition, our total rewards include competitive holiday and flexible paid-time-off, a 401(k) retirement savings plan with matching and company contributions that can total up to 10% of an employee&#8217;s eligible compensation per year, as well as other benefits designed to support the personal and professional lives of our employees. Examples of these benefits include paid parental and caregiver leave, adoption and surrogacy assistance, a backup child and adult/elder care program, no-cost access to certified financial planners, and an employee assistance program. We also match employee donations to registered nonprofits subject to an annual cap and provide our employees with eight hours of volunteer-time-off to give back in the communities where we work. 

We empower our employees to act as founders with an owner&#8217;s mindset across all levels of the organization and all parts of the business which is encouraged through our shared equity program. In August 2021, we announced that all eligible employees may be awarded Ally stock annually through our discretionary #OwnIt Annual Grant Program dependent upon our financial performance and Board approval. In January 2024, for the fifth consecutive year, we awarded all active, regular Ally employees with 100 restricted stock units, up to a maximum grant date value of $5,000, and subject to a 3-year cliff vesting schedule, in recognition of our notable accomplishments and to support a founder&#8217;s mentality. This benefit provides shared equity to our employees and to further encourage the mindset of an owner, we also maintain an employee stock purchase plan that provides employees with the opportunity to purchase Ally stock at a discount. 

Supporting and valuing all our employees is central to our culture. We offer flexible health insurance options including dental and vision for our employees, as well as a pre-tax health savings account with employer contributions. We expanded eligibility to employees with an annual base salary of less than $70,000 to receive additional employer contributions offsetting the cost of health insurance. Additionally, we provide access to virtual care options for certain healthcare needs and reimburse for certain eligible transportation and lodging expenses when in-network covered care is not available within 100 miles of a member&#8217;s home address. We provide life and disability benefits and manage a wellness program encouraging healthy living with financial rewards. In 2023, we further expanded mental health benefits for our employees, their dependents, and immediate household members. This additional benefit will provide up to 16 free counseling sessions for each individual, regardless of their participation in our medical plans, to help address on-going community concerns over affordability and access to mental health care and build resiliency among our employee population. Since its launch, over 2,600 employees have registered with the provider. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

A component of our culture is our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. We believe the best ideas come from a collective mixture of different voices and perspectives. We are an equal opportunity employer, and we strive for an inclusive work environment where all backgrounds, experiences, interests, viewpoints, and skills are respected, appreciated, and encouraged. We are focused on diverse representation and retention in the workforce&#8212;including different genders, races, nationalities, sexual orientations, socio-economic status, and other identities&#8212;across all levels of the organization. Fostering these diverse perspectives is important and reflects the beliefs and actions that are the backbone of our culture. 

We have a deliberate focus on DE&#38;I with an intentional emphasis on inclusion, which expands beyond traditional definitions of diversity. Notably, our company-wide employee engagement survey score for belonging is five points above the financial services industry benchmark and within the top 10% of all global companies, as measured by our third-party provider. The importance of DE&#38;I starts at the top with our CEO and Board, who consistently stress the value in leveraging our differences. 

Our DE&#38;I Council provides executive leadership on DE&#38;I and promotes belonging at Ally and in our communities. A subset of our commitment to DE&#38;I is a Financial and Social Inclusion Framework that is built upon four pillars: Employees, Community, Customers, and Suppliers. 

&#8226; Employees: We aspire to create a diverse workforce that is truly reflective of the communities in which we live and work. 

&#8226; Community: We continue to create opportunities for economic mobility in the communities where we work and live, especially for our Black, Hispanic, and Latino neighbors, who often face disproportionate challenges. 

&#8226; Customers: We help enable financial and social inclusion through our culture of customer obsession, by developing education and solutions to support and strengthen economic mobility for all. 

&#8226; Suppliers: We are intentional about collaborating and working with a diverse group of minority and women-owned business enterprises. 

These four pillars are championed by our employees, which empowers us to advance DE&#38;I efforts in meaningful ways beyond Ally. Additionally, these efforts are further supported by our Chief Diversity Officer, and 16 full-time employees designated to advance DE&#38;I within Ally. While our Financial and Social Inclusion Framework is focused on addressing the wealth gap, specifically in Black, Hispanic, and Latino communities, the four pillars are reflective of our DE&#38;I efforts more broadly as further discussed below. 

Employees 

We take deliberate steps to weave DE&#38;I through all our human capital efforts: from pipelining candidates, onboarding, all the way through the employee lifecycle. With this approach, we have been able to build on our LEAD culture to celebrate the differences that our 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

employees bring to the workplace. In 2023, we expanded our implementation of unconscious bias mitigation and awareness training to help leaders and team members across the organization understand the impacts of unconscious bias on our decision-making processes. Every employee has a specific culture-related performance objective, which includes a strong focus on DE&#38;I. Additionally, for all executive leaders, annual performance objectives and reviews include a specific focus on representation and diversity trends within the workforce. The importance of DE&#38;I is consistently reinforced by executive leadership through town hall meetings, employee communications, and active participation in and sponsorship of our ERGs. We believe a diverse and inclusive workforce makes us stronger, as well as more agile, innovative, and adaptable. We believe it benefits our various stakeholders culturally, operationally, and financially. 

We maintain eight ERGs sponsored by members of Ally&#8217;s Executive Council and chaired by leaders from multiple levels of management across Ally. These ERGs consist of: Aliados, Asian/Middle Eastern, Black/African American, Diverse Abilities, Generational, Pride, Veteran, and Women ALLYs. Membership in our ERGs is voluntary and open to all employees, whether they identify with the ERG or view themselves as an ally to the group. As we celebrated the sixth anniversary of ERGs in 2023, employee participation grew to 59% of our workforce belonging to at least one ERG as of December 31, 2023, as compared to more than 50% as of December 31, 2022. Our ERGs may offer employees a sense of belonging, enhanced networking, and opportunities to learn and grow. Through dedicated focus months, each ERG has delivered cultural education and awareness that expands understanding and collaboration throughout the organization. Through volunteerism, fundraising, and supporting nonprofits and community organizations, our ERGs are committed to giving back to the communities where we live and work. Beyond our ERGs, our Technology Organization also launched two diversity-focused groups that explore the obstacles to inclusivity that exist specifically within the technology industry. These two groups were Women in Technology (WiT) and Black, Hispanic and Latino in Technology (BHLiT) and, like our ERGs, are open to all employees. Our objective across all the groups is to foster a workplace environment where all employees have a sense of belonging and know their opinions count. 

Our commitment to inclusion emphasizes representation, transparency, accountability, and action for our employees. As of December 31, 2023, our gender representation is approximately 51% men and 49% women. We increased or maintained representation of women and people of color in our manager and above roles, and redesigned programs to create more opportunities for individuals new to their roles in the company. 

The following table presents our employee representation of women, and Black or African American, Latino or Hispanic, or Asian individuals as a percentage of all employees. 

##TABLE_START 2023 (a) (b) 2022 (a) (b) December 31, Women Black or African American Latino or Hispanic Asian Women Black or African American Latino or Hispanic Asian Associate 73 &#160; % 48 &#160; % 13 &#160; % 3 &#160; % 73 % 50 % 11 % 3 % Analyst 48 &#160; 19 &#160; 9 &#160; 9 &#160; 47 19 9 9 Manager/Director 36 &#160; 8 &#160; 4 &#160; 15 &#160; 35 8 4 15 Executive 28 &#160; 4 &#160; 3 &#160; 4 &#160; 26 3 3 3 All employees 49 &#160; 21 &#160; 8 &#160; 10 &#160; 49 22 8 9 ##TABLE_END

(a) Figures in the table are based upon information self-reported by our employees as of December 31, 2023, and 2022. 

(b) Includes U.S. and Canadian employees, and classifies our field/sales/customer service employees as either a Manager/Director or Analyst depending on job responsibilities. 

We believe equal access to earning potential is essential in attracting, retaining, and inspiring top talent. Our external hiring practices are based on market rates for roles, experience, and performance. To the same end, we do not and have not requested salary history from candidates since 2017, and we regularly benchmark our compensation against other companies, both within and outside our industry. Pay rates for all positions are routinely reviewed, supporting equitable pay across the organization. Our internal minimum hourly wage for our U.S. employees is currently $23. Beginning January 1, 2023, in concurrence with laws in multiple municipalities in which we operate, we began proactively including pay ranges in job postings nationwide. 

Since 2022, we have observed Juneteenth as a paid holiday for U.S. employees to commemorate the emancipation of millions of people from slavery and our Canadian employees observed National Day for Truth and Reconciliation as a paid holiday to honor the Native children, survivors, families, and communities affected by residential schools. 

Community 

Our approach to community is inclusive and integrates our employees across the organization. We help our employees develop their own skills while serving our communities with their time and talent. We offer our employees eight paid hours per year to volunteer in their communities. Employees can donate to eligible nonprofit organizations by credit, debit, or payroll deductions, and Ally provides a dollar-for-dollar match up to $1,000 per eligible employee, per calendar year. In 2023, our employees volunteered over 60,000 hours, a record for us. During 2023, we also matched our employees&#8217; donations of time and dollars resulting in approximately $1.9 million for our communities. Both of these milestones reflect our culture of giving back. 

Our philanthropic approach is primarily based on a framework of economic mobility. We support programs that provide opportunities to individuals and families in low- and moderate-income communities with a focus on three areas: affordable housing, financial literacy, and 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

workforce development. We solely funded the Ally Charitable Foundation, a non-consolidated entity, which has approximately $82 million in assets as of December 31, 2023, to drive positive and lasting impacts in our communities. The Ally Charitable Foundation is governed by six senior Ally employees who meet quarterly to approve certain grants, monitor our investments, and provide strategic guidance. In 2023, the Ally Charitable Foundation approved its first Mission Related Investment of $3 million to preserve existing affordable housing in Charlotte, North Carolina. The investment not only addresses housing insecurity, but integrates financial and digital education, STEM learning, health care and more. The Ally Charitable Foundation also approved its first Program Related Investments totaling $4 million to support small businesses and affordable housing in Charlotte, North Carolina. In Detroit, Michigan, the Ally Charitable Foundation granted $1.5 million to address workforce development and supplier diversity, and in coordination with Local Initiatives Support Corporation of Detroit, funding will be delivered over three years to several nonprofit organizations. 

One of our largest and most powerful initiatives is Moguls in the Making, an annual competition that fosters opportunities for students from historically black colleges and universities. The annual program was launched in 2019 in collaboration with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund and the Sean Anderson Foundation. In 2023, we sponsored the fifth Moguls in the Making competition, with 60 students, who brought innovative and impactful solutions to economic mobility challenges. Since the program&#8217;s inception, we have offered internships to 45 students, which have often led to permanent job placements within Ally or the broader financial-services industry. 

Our financial education approach is focused on providing content and programs to advance economic mobility for individuals and families. We leverage our team members and community partners to teach critical financial skills to assist those that we serve toward their financial goals. 

Our work in the communities is woven throughout our culture. We originated, as defined in our CRA strategic plan approved by the FRB, approximately $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in loans and investments that primarily benefit low- and moderate-income individuals and communities as part of our CRA program during the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. In 2023, we further executed on our ongoing commitment of expanding access to capital for Black, Hispanic, and Latino communities by deploying $71 million in loans and investments specifically to minority- and women-led organizations. These loans and investments are instrumental in providing the financial foundation required to help develop and create more opportunities for the next generation of successful Black, Hispanic, and Latino entrepreneurs, investors, affordable housing developers, and community leaders. We also provided over $1.6 million in grants to 65 non-profit organizations, including $391,000 to 18 organizations that are either minority-led or supported initiatives targeting primarily Black, Hispanic, or Latino individuals. Additionally, Ally Bank received consecutive &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; CRA ratings in our last three reviews. 

Customers 

The diversity of our employees is a key component of our success as an organization as it allows us to have a workforce that is representative of customers we serve. In June 2021, we announced the elimination of all overdraft fees across our retail deposit products for all customers. This change is an example of our &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; commitment for all customers, including those that may be financially vulnerable. In January 2022, we announced Ally CoverDraft service, which provides a no fee overdraft allowance to our qualifying customers on debit transactions subject to a certain amount. 

Suppliers 

Our Supplier Diversity program focuses on diversity and inclusion amongst our supplier population. The program includes a proactive business strategy encouraging the use of diverse suppliers defined as those owned by U.S.-based minorities, women, LGBTQ+, veterans and those with disabilities, and small or disadvantaged businesses defined by local, state, or federal classifications. We monitor and report expenditure with diverse suppliers in two tiers: first-tier expenditure is our direct expenditure with diverse suppliers, and second-tier expenditure is indirect expenditure associated with our prime suppliers that are utilizing minority, women, LGBTQ+, veteran, disability-owned, and small or disadvantaged businesses to help support us. 

Since the program&#8217;s inception, we have created operational processes to include diverse suppliers in our bidding and contracting opportunities. This has resulted in an increase in both first-tier and second-tier diverse supplier expenditures. In 2023, we directed approximately $176 million of first-tier diversity expenditures to certified Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises and Small Businesses, surpassing first-tier diverse expenditures in 2022 by $41 million. Approximately 50% of our largest suppliers, in terms of dollars spent, participated in second-tier expenditure reporting during the year ended December 31, 2023. As a result, these suppliers have allowed us to capture our second-tier diverse supplier expenditures, which provides a more holistic view of our economic impact within our communities. In all instances, regardless of diversity status, we seek to award procurement contracts to the suppliers who demonstrate they are the optimum partner for such business opportunities based on a combination of decision factors including but not limited to total cost of ownership, compliance with applicable third-party risk, legal and regulatory requirements, ability to meet or exceed our operational and functional requirements and robustness of service quality commitments. 

Our dedicated Supplier Diversity team assists our business lines and procurement teams in identifying a mix of certified diverse suppliers with the proper credentials and capabilities to adhere to our third-party risk, operational, commercial, legal and performance standards. As part of our initial supplier due diligence process, our Supplier Diversity and procurement teams partner to research qualified diverse suppliers capable of meeting our standards in Request for Proposal events. This allows us to integrate consideration of diverse business enterprises in third-party purchasing opportunities. Our comprehensive sourcing network pairs our needs with the business strengths of a diverse mix of large and small suppliers, who then may participate in our bidding and selection processes. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

In 2023, we joined the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council, a global community of purchasers, suppliers, advocates, and experts dedicated to driving positive impact through the power of procurement. This membership has enabled access to key resources, partnerships and capacity building tools as we take steps to advance a Supply Chain Sustainability Program. We also initiated a relationship with an independent sustainability assessment provider to begin evaluating the sustainability performance of certain third parties within our supply chain. 

In February 2023, we hosted more than 50 diverse-owned businesses at our Ally Charlotte Center office for the 3rd annual Supplier Diversity Symposium. The day featured interactive sessions and a fireside chat with our CEO to increase access, create connections, and explore opportunities to expand relationships with diverse suppliers. In addition to our annual Supplier Symposium, we also hosted quarterly diverse supplier spotlight events as part of our ongoing commitment to supplier diversity. These events engaged diverse suppliers through interactive mock sales pitches and provided immediate coaching and feedback. As a result of this access, many of the participating diverse suppliers went on to connect with our supply chain department and business line executives to explore potential opportunities to work with us. Additionally, in July 2023 we celebrated Ally&#8217;s Supplier Diversity Month. Established in July 2022, the month-long celebration features events for diverse businesses and highlights the accomplishments of employees, companies and industry professionals who have contributed to advancing inclusion for all suppliers. 

Recognition 

As a reflection of our collective efforts across each of these pillars to build an inclusive culture, we were recognized by several organizations in 2023. In 2023, Ally was named to Fortune&#8217;s 100 Best Places to Work for, and we improved on Forbes America&#8217;s Best Large Employers which ranked us 13th out of 500 large employers. Additionally, we were recognized as a Seramount 100 Best Company for our parent-friendly culture, with noted acknowledgment for our mental health support, and were again included in People&#8217;s 2023 Companies That Care list. We were named No. 12 on Newsweek&#8217;s Most Loved Workplace list and ranked second in financial services. 

In 2023, we made the Forbes&#8217; lists as a best place to work for diversity, new grads, women and veterans. We also were named to Diversity Inc.&#8217;s Top 50 companies for diversity list for a third consecutive year, and as a best place to work for disability inclusion by the following organizations: American Association of People with Disabilities, and Disability:IN. Finally, Newsweek named us one of America&#8217;s Greatest Workplaces 2023 for Diversity. 

In 2023, Ally&#8217;s Supplier Diversity Program was recognized as a &#8220;Top Corporation&#8221; by the Greater Women&#8217;s Business Council for the second consecutive year and received Disability:IN&#8217;s Top Corporation for Disability-Owned Business Award. Our Senior Director for Supplier Diversity &#38; Sustainability was also honored as the 2023 Advocate of the Year by the Greater Women&#8217;s Business Council. 

Oversight and Governance 

Our collective human capital approach is further strengthened through the identification, prioritization, mitigation, and monitoring of human-capital risks in alignment with our enterprise risk management framework, which allows us to maintain a well-controlled operational environment aligned with our risk culture. Enterprise policies, standards and processes are reviewed at least once per year and are subject to routine control assessment and effectiveness testing. Transparency in risk reporting&#8212;through issue management, quarterly business reviews, risk committees, and audits&#8212;supports appropriate governance and oversight for human capital measures and processes. Our priority is to maintain the safety and soundness of Ally, our culture, and our workforce. 

The Compensation, Nominating, and Governance Committee of the Board is responsible for the oversight of our human capital management. This Committee and Ally&#8217;s Executive Council biannually review organizational health metrics and progress toward cultural priorities including our DE&#38;I efforts and engagement efforts. Annually, the Board reviews and approves Ally&#8217;s Code of Conduct and Ethics, which is the framework for our culture including how employees must conduct themselves. This is required to be attested to by all employees on an annual basis. Additionally, at least quarterly, our Chief Diversity Officer conducts a diversity council session with senior leaders. 

The management of our human capital resources is a core responsibility of our leaders across the organization. Leaders recognize the importance of attracting, engaging, and retaining talented employees at all levels. Human capital risk appetite limits, comprising voluntary turnover and succession planning, are tracked and communicated as appropriate. Other human capital risk mitigation activities include: 

&#8226; Active monitoring of evolving employee legislation, market competition, industry trends and wages, overall benefits structure, engagement surveys, and exit surveys. 

&#8226; Strategic talent assessment and planning routines focused on promoting internal mobility, diverse representation, and professional growth. 

&#8226; Succession planning processes to facilitate business continuity. 

The HR leadership team reports to Ally&#8217;s Chief HR Officer and includes our Chief Diversity Officer, Chief Ethics Officer, and other direct reports that work with our leaders to identify human capital metrics designed to promote and sustain the health of our organization. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Other Developments 

In October 2023, our CEO announced his intent to retire in January 2024 after nine years in the role and nearly 15 years of service with Ally. Our Board immediately initiated a search with an executive recruitment firm. In January 2024, we announced an interim CEO, Doug Timmerman, who has been with Ally for over 30 years. 

Additional Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to these reports) are available on our internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at www.ally.com/about/investor/sec-filings/. These reports can also be found on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

