 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The Company is a subsidiary of JDFS, a wholly-owned finance holding subsidiary of Deere &#38; Company. The results of operations of the Company are affected by its relationships with John Deere. See &#8220;Relationships of the Company with John Deere&#8221; on page 4 for additional information regarding the relationship between the Company and John Deere.

The following risks are considered material to the Company&#8217;s business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; beginning on page 23, including the risks and uncertainties described in the &#8220;Safe Harbor Statement&#8221; on pages 30-32, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 44, and the risk factors of Deere &#38; Company included in Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements that relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods involve certain factors that are subject to change, and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular portions of the business, while others could affect all of the Company&#8217;s business. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise this risk factors discussion, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the &#8220;Safe Harbor Statement&#8221; in this report are not the only risks faced by the Company.

Risks Related to the COVID Pandemic 

The COVID pandemic resulted in additional risks that could materially adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 

The virus causing COVID was identified in late 2019 and spread globally (COVID pandemic). Efforts to combat the virus have been complicated by viral variants and uneven access to, and acceptance and effectiveness of, vaccines globally. The pandemic resulted in governments and other authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and business closures. These measures have impacted and may continue to impact all or portions of the Company&#8217;s workforce and operations and the operations of customers and dealers. Although certain restrictions related to the COVID pandemic have eased, uncertainty continues to exist regarding such measures and potential future measures. Current material and component shortages have limited and could continue to limit John Deere&#8217;s ability to meet customer demand, which could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.

The COVID pandemic caused a global recession and the sustainability of the economic recovery observed in 2021 remains unclear. The COVID pandemic has also significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty, has caused inflationary pressure in the U.S. and elsewhere, and has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. Economic uncertainties could continue to affect demand for John Deere&#8217;s products, the value of the equipment financed or leased, the demand for financing, and the financial condition and credit risk of John Deere dealers and customers. 

Continued uncertainties related to the magnitude, duration, and persistent effects of the COVID pandemic may significantly adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business and outlook. These uncertainties include, among other things: the duration and impact of the resurgence in COVID cases in any country, state, or region; the emergence, contagiousness, and threat of new and different strains of virus; the availability, acceptance, and effectiveness of vaccines; 

additional closures or other actions as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities, including employee vaccine mandates; disruptions in the supply chain, including those caused by industry capacity constraints, material availability, and global logistics delays and constraints arising from, among other things, the transportation capacity of ocean shipping containers and a prolonged delay in resumption of operations by one or more of John Deere&#8217;s key suppliers, or the failure of any key supplier; an increasingly competitive labor market due to a sustained labor shortage or increased turnover caused by the COVID pandemic; additional operating costs due to continued remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines, and other COVID-related challenges; increased risk of cyberattacks on network connections used in remote working arrangements; increased privacy-related risks due to processing health-related personal information; legal claims related to alleged exposure to COVID on Company premises; absence of employees due to illness; and the impact of the pandemic on the Company&#8217;s customers and John Deere dealers. These factors, and others that are currently unknown or considered immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position.

Geopolitical Uncertainties 

International, national and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade), and government farm programs and policies could significantly impair John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects. As the Company&#8217;s acquisition volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, these geopolitical uncertainties could also negatively impact the Company&#39;s profitability and growth prospects. 

International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere&#8217;s products, services, and technology, or those of its customers, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere&#8217;s global business. John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets impairs John Deere&#8217;s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world and limits the ability to access raw materials and high quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions, including withdrawal from or modification of existing trade agreements, negotiation of new trade agreements, non-tariff trade barriers, local content requirements, and imposition of new or retaliatory tariffs against certain countries or covering certain products, including developments in U.S.-China trade relations, could limit John Deere&#8217;s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere&#8217;s ability to expand the business by offering new technologies, products, and services. These trade restrictions, and changes in or uncertainty surrounding global trade policies, may affect John Deere&#8217;s competitive position. Furthermore, market access and the ability to export agricultural and forestry commodities is critical to John Deere&#8217;s agricultural and forestry customers. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales could be especially harmed by such policies because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. Additionally, changes in government farm programs and policies, including direct payment and other subsidies, can significantly influence demand for agricultural equipment as well as create unequal competition for multinational companies relative to domestic companies. 

Embargoes, sanctions and export controls imposed by the U.S. and other governments restricting or prohibiting transactions with certain persons or entities, including financial institutions, to certain countries or regions, or involving certain products, limit the sales of John Deere products. Embargoes, sanctions, and export control laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to China, Russia, Myanmar (Burma), and Belarus. In particular, changing U.S. export controls and sanctions on China, as well as other restrictions affecting transactions involving China and Chinese parties, could affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to collect receivables, provide aftermarket and warranty support for John Deere equipment, and sell products, and otherwise impact John Deere&#8217;s reputation and business. Although John Deere and the Company have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of import and export laws and sanctions, violations of these laws or sanctions could harm John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s 

reputation and business, and may subject John Deere or the Company to civil and criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s or the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition.

Greater political, economic, and social uncertainty and the evolving globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s competition, customer base, and product offerings and impact John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s growth opportunities globally. 

John Deere&#8217;s efforts to grow its businesses depend in part upon access to additional geographic markets, including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia, and South Africa, and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in such markets. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere&#8217;s other markets. Negative market conditions resulting from economic and political uncertainties in these and other countries could reduce customer confidence, resulting in declines in demand and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could affect write-offs and provisions for credit losses. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes John Deere and the Company to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices, and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and are often complex and difficult to navigate, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, sanctions and export control requirements, repatriation of earnings, and advanced technologies. The agricultural equipment industry continues to undergo significant changes and is becoming even more competitive through the emergence and expanding global capability of many competitors. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations, which can materially affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s financial results. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and its brands are widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brands are less well known in some emerging markets, which could impede John Deere&#8217;s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. Although John Deere is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.

Uncertain Economic Conditions 

Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for John Deere&#8217;s equipment and services, limit access to funding, and result in higher funding costs for John Deere and the Company. 

The demand for the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, cautious consumer spending, lower corporate earnings, U.S. budget issues, and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions that cause John Deere&#8217;s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their likelihood of purchasing John Deere&#8217;s equipment. As discussed under Risks Related to the COVID Pandemic&#8211; The COVID pandemic resulted in additional risks that could materially adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows , the COVID pandemic caused a global recession and significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. Sustained negative economic conditions and outlook affect housing starts, energy demand, and other construction, which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere&#8217;s turf operations and its construction and forestry business are dependent on construction activity and general economic conditions. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s results of operations. If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales. In addition, uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook can cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company&#8217;s earnings and cash flows. Additionally, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.

In addition, demand for John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s products and services can be significantly reduced by concerns regarding the diverse economic and political circumstances of the individual countries in the eurozone, the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or the long-term stability of the euro as a single common currency. Persistent disparity with respect to the widely varying economic conditions 

within the individual countries in the eurozone, and its implications for the euro as well as market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s euro-denominated assets and obligations, have an adverse effect on demand for John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s products and services in the eurozone, and have an adverse effect on financial markets in Europe and globally. More specifically, it could affect the ability of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses and access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, as well as the availability of supplies and materials and the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products.

Financial Risks 

Because the Company is subject to interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins, and limit access to capital markets while increasing borrowing costs. 

Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of the Company&#8217;s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers&#8217; ability to repay obligations to the Company. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs, which are very important to the Company because such costs affect the Company&#8217;s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. While the Company strives to match the interest rate characteristics of its financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s net interest rate margin&#8212;the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company&#8217;s net interest income and earnings. Actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company&#8217;s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.

Changes in government banking, monetary, and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on the Company. 

Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s customers and markets. Failure of the U.S. federal government to pass a 2022 budget resolution could lead to a U.S. default under its sovereign debt, the consequences of which could have significant and unpredictable effects on global financial markets, which could in turn negatively affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. The Company&#8217;s operations and results could also be affected by financial regulatory reform that could have an adverse effect on the Company and its customers by limiting their ability to enter into hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment, due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. The Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s operations, including those outside of the United States, may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.

Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on John Deere and the Company. 

John Deere and the Company are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. John Deere&#8217;s domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretations. If John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of its taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company&#8217;s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency exchange and translation risk. 

The Company operates in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. The Company is subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that its costs are denominated in currencies other than 

those in which it earns revenues. Additionally, the reporting currency for the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company&#8217;s assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are denominated in other countries&#8217; currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currencies. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s results.

Because the Company is a financing company, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact the Company&#8217;s operations and financial results. 

Negative economic conditions can have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the Company operates. The Company provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere&#8217;s sales in many of the countries in which the Company operates. The Company is exposed to the risk that customers and others will default on contractual obligations and may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company&#8217;s inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support its financing activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business. The Company&#8217;s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the Company&#8217;s write-offs and provision for credit losses.

The Company&#8217;s results could be adversely affected by a decrease in the value or higher than estimated returns of equipment on operating lease. 

The Company estimates the end-of-lease term residual value at the inception of the operating leases based on a number of factors, including lease term, expected hours of usage, historical wholesale sale prices, return experience, intended use of the equipment, market dynamics and trends, and third-party residual guarantees. Used equipment values may decrease as a result of any one or a combination of factors including market conditions, supply of and demand for used equipment, and technological advancements in new equipment. Lower residual value estimates could result in increasing operating lease depreciation, impairment losses, and losses on the sale of matured operating lease inventory, which would decrease the Company&#8217;s earnings.

The transition away from the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;) and the adoption of alternative reference rates could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business and results of operations. 

The Company is exposed to LIBOR-based financial instruments, primarily relating to debt, derivative, and receivables transactions, that have been entered into previously and remain outstanding. The LIBOR benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of LIBOR after 2021. In November 2020, the Intercontinental Exchange announced that it intends to cease publication of certain LIBOR settings by the end of 2021 while continuing to publish overnight and one-, three-, six-, and twelve-month U.S. dollar LIBOR rates through June 30, 2023. However, in early 2021, the United States Federal Reserve Board and other regulatory bodies issued guidance encouraging banks and other financial market participants to cease entering into new contracts that use U.S. dollar LIBOR as a reference rate as soon as practicable and in any event no later than December 31, 2021. These actions may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past and LIBOR will likely ultimately cease to exist.

To facilitate an orderly transition from LIBOR to alternative benchmark rate(s), John Deere and the Company established an initiative led by internal subject matter experts to assess and mitigate risks associated with the discontinuation of LIBOR. As part of this initiative, several alternative benchmark rates have been, and continue to be, evaluated. At this time, however, the effects of the phase out of LIBOR and the adoption of alternative benchmark rates have not been fully determined. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could affect the Company&#8217;s contracts that mature after a LIBOR cessation date. In addition, there is uncertainty about how applicable laws, the courts, or the Company will address the replacement of LIBOR with alternative rates on variable-rate contracts that do 

not include, or contain unclear, alternative rate fallback provisions. A failure to properly transition away from LIBOR could expose the Company to various financial, operational, and regulatory risks, which could affect the Company&#8217;s results of operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for the Company&#8217;s securities.

Market Conditions 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to adapt in highly competitive markets could affect its business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

John Deere operates in a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. John Deere competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. John Deere competes on the basis of product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service, and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays, or John Deere&#8217;s failure to price its products competitively could adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition, which could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

John Deere&#8217;s ability to understand its customers&#8217; specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer demand, could significantly affect its business results. 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to match new product offerings to diverse global customers&#8217; anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere&#8217;s existing and potential customers on a global basis. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s business, which could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

Changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of bio-energy could affect the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. 

Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world&#8217;s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies, including those related to climate change, and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower agricultural commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment and result in higher credit losses. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere&#8217;s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Furthermore, changing bio-energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for John Deere&#8217;s diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs for John Deere related to equipment fuel standards. These changes could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

Data Security and Privacy Risks 

Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company&#8217;s information technology infrastructure could interfere with the Company&#8217;s operations and could compromise the information of the Company as well as its customers and/or John Deere dealers, exposing the Company to liability that could cause the Company&#8217;s business and reputation to suffer. 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including loan application and collection of payments from dealers and other purchasers of John Deere equipment. The Company uses information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Additionally, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and the proprietary business information of the Company&#8217;s 

customers and John Deere dealers, as well as personally identifiable information of the Company&#8217;s customers and employees, in data centers, which are often owned by third parties, and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to the Company&#8217;s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures, including a vulnerability disclosure program, and business continuity plans, the Company&#8217;s information technology networks and infrastructure have been and may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals or breaches due to employee, supplier, or dealer error or malfeasance or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Although the Company has not suffered any significant cyber incidents that resulted in a material business impact, it has from time to time been the target of malicious cyber threat actors. The occurrence of any significant event could compromise the Company&#8217;s networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability, or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disruption to the Company&#8217;s operations, and damage the Company&#8217;s reputation, which could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, the Company may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of its systems.

The Company is subject to governmental laws, regulations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection and any inability or perceived inability of the Company to address these requirements could adversely affect our business. 

The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The Company collects personal information and other data as integral parts of its business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory and other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union and other relevant jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal information and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions. The European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, among others, impose stringent data protection requirements and provide significant penalties for noncompliance. New privacy laws will continue to come into effect around the world in the future. Any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to the Company or Company officials, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business.

Human Capital Risks 

The Company&#8217;s ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could affect its ability to execute its strategy. 

The Company&#8217;s continued success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background, and experience as well as its ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage and retain qualified employees, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new employees, or inadequate resources to train, integrate, and retain qualified employees, could impair the Company&#8217;s ability to execute its business strategy, and could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business. In addition, while the Company strives to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, the Company&#8217;s operations or ability to execute its business strategy and meet its business objectives may be affected by the loss of employees, particularly when departures involve larger numbers of employees, such as those the Company could experience if a surge occurs in the number of employees voluntarily leaving their jobs similar to that experienced by other employers and industries since 2020. Higher rates of employee separations may adversely affect the Company through decreased employee morale, the loss of knowledge of departing employees, and the devotion of resources to recruiting and onboarding new employees.

Disputes with labor unions have adversely affected John Deere&#8217;s ability to operate its facilities as well as its financial results. 

Many of John Deere&#8217;s production and maintenance employees are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements with different expiration dates. The failure of John Deere to successfully renegotiate labor agreements as they expire has from time to time led, and could in the future lead, to work stoppages or other disputes with labor unions. Disruptions to John Deere&#8217;s manufacturing and parts-distribution facilities, through various forms of labor disputes, adversely affect John Deere and the Company. On October 14, 2021, after employees represented by the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) failed to approve a new collective bargaining agreement between John Deere and the UAW, the UAW initiated a labor strike affecting more than 10,000 workers at 14 John Deere facilities across the U.S., which adversely affected John Deere&#8217;s operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. The strike ended after a new collective bargaining agreement was approved on November 17, 2021. The UAW strike is expected to have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s results of operations for the three months ending January 30, 2022 as a result of reduced production and shipments. Any strike, work stoppage, or other dispute with a labor union distracts management from operating the business, may displace employees from ordinary job positions to fill in vacant positions, may affect John Deere&#8217;s reputation, and could materially adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s business, which could have a negative effect on the Company.

Environmental, Climate, and Weather Risks 

Unfavorable weather conditions or natural calamities that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment could directly and indirectly affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business. 

Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere&#8217;s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Temperature affects the rate of growth, maturity, and quality of crops. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, droughts, diseases, and pests can have significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment and the financial condition and credit risk of our customers and John Deere&#8217;s dealers. Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region, particularly during the important spring selling season, may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.

Increasingly rigorous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations of federal, state, and local authorities in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions apply to John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations, suppliers, and customers, and enforcement actions or civil litigation related to those requirements could adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business results. 

Enforcement actions arising from violations of environmental, health, and safety laws or regulations can lead to investigations and legal costs and result in significant fines or penalties. In addition, new or more stringent requirements of governmental authorities, including with respect to disclosure relating to climate change risks, could prevent or restrict John Deere&#8217;s operations, or those of John Deere&#8217;s suppliers and customers, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance, and/or give rise to civil or criminal liability. Further, civil litigation on these subjects continues to increase, primarily in the U.S. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws and/or regulations, civil claims for damages to property or personal injury arising from the environmental, health, or safety impacts of John Deere&#8217;s or the Company&#8217;s operations, or those of John Deere&#8217;s suppliers and customers, or other civil claims in which John Deere or the Company becomes a party, would not have consequences that result in a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations, or financial condition.

Governmental actions designed to address climate change and the emergence of new technologies and business models in connection with the transition to a lower-carbon economy could adversely affect John Deere and its customers. The physical effects attributed to climate change could further impact John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers, and customers. 

There is global scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) continue to alter the composition of Earth&#8217;s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations may lead to new international, national, regional, or local legislative or regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere and the Company, are continuing to look for ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources or the imposition of carbon pricing mechanisms could result in additional costs to John Deere and the Company in the form of taxes or emission allowances, facilities improvements, and energy costs, which would increase John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating costs through higher utility, transportation, and materials costs. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also affect customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Because the impact of any future climate change-related legislative, regulatory, or product standard requirements on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of mandates or standards, the Company is unable to predict their potential impact at this time.

Customer preferences in the markets served by John Deere could change as these markets transition to less carbon-intensive business models. Demand for electric agricultural, turf, and construction equipment could rise. The development of alternative farming techniques, carbon sequestration technologies, and new low-carbon biofuels could change farmers&#8217; business models and equipment needs. If John Deere fails to properly develop or invest in new technologies to meet changing customer demands, John Deere will be at risk of losing potential sources of revenue, which could affect the Company&#8217;s future financial results.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers, and customers and therefore on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographic regions. These may include extreme weather events and long-term changes in temperature levels and water availability. These potential physical effects may adversely affect the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and the financial performance of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations.

Legal and Regulatory Risks 

The Company&#8217;s global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, and other adverse effects. 

The Company&#8217;s global operations are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, many of which are complex, frequently changing, and subject to varying interpretations. These laws and regulations cover a broad spectrum of subject areas, including advertising; anti&#8211;money laundering; antitrust; consumer finance; environmental, health, and safety, including proper handling of electronic waste, recycling, and climate change; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; foreign ownership and investment; human rights, labor, and employment; and data privacy. These laws may vary substantially within the different markets in which the Company operates. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and may further increase the cost of conducting the Company&#8217;s global operations. In addition, the Company must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all applicable foreign anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although the Company has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company&#8217;s policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil sanctions and have a materially adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Changes to existing laws and regulations or changes to how they are interpreted or the implementation of new, more stringent laws or regulations could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business by increasing compliance costs, limiting 

the Company&#8217;s ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to the Company&#8217;s business practices, or otherwise making the Company&#8217;s products and services less attractive to customers. Legislative and regulatory changes and other actions that could potentially affect the Company&#8217;s business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse effects from such measures.

Strategic Performance Risks 

The Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of its business strategies or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. 

The Company may not realize all anticipated benefits of its recent reorganization and the implementation of its operating model within the anticipated timeframe or at all. Factors that could affect these benefits include the adoption of new job types within the Company, changing job responsibilities of employees, the number of layers of management, the ability of employees to embrace change, anxiety within the workforce, and temporary inefficiencies. Further, the ability of John Deere to execute its business strategies in production systems, precision technologies, and aftermarket support could affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition.

