                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          S&P Edges Higher to Extend Rally --- Walt Disney's stock slides after the media giant reports a quarterly loss ......
          2                                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          S&PEdgesHighertoExtendRally---WaltDisney'sstockslidesafterthemediagiantreportsaquarterlyloss
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tuesday's Markets                                                       
          S&P Edges Higher to Extend Rally --- Walt Disney's stock slides after the media giant reports a
          quarterly loss                                                          
          By Vicky Ge Huang                                                       
          537 words                                                               
          8 May 2024                                                              
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The S&P 500 eked out a gain, building on its recent rally as another round of earnings rolled in.
          The broad-based index added 0.1%, bringing its advance for the year to 8.8%. The blue-chip Dow Jones
          Industrial Average rose 0.2%, logging its fifth straight day of gains. The tech-heavy Nasdaq slipped 0.1%.
          After pulling back in April, stocks have staged a comeback more recently on renewed hopes for interest-rate
          cuts this year. Corporate earnings results for the first quarter so far had also given investors some reason for
          optimism.                                                               
          Tuesday's results weren't as rosy. Walt Disney's shares dropped 9.5% after the media giant reported a
          quarterly loss and issued an earnings outlook that fell shy of Wall Street expectations.
          "The valuation overall of stocks doesn't give you a whole lot of room if you're going to have some question
          mark about what your future is going to look like," said Steve Wyett, chief investment strategist at BOK
          Financial.                                                              
          But Wyett said stocks can continue to build on their gains this year as long as it looks like inflation will
          continue to ease and that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates.  
                                                                                  
          Hopes for rate cuts in 2024 had dimmed in recent weeks after a string of data showing inflation has proved
          stickier than expected. But the latest jobs report on Friday showed hiring slowed sharply last month, helping
          ease fears of an overheating economy.                                   
          Futures traders are pricing in a roughly 90% chance that the Fed will cut rates by the end of the year,
          according to CME Group data.                                            
          To some, the central bank's campaign to tame price pressures still has ways to go. Neel Kashkari, president
          of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said Tuesday the most likely scenario is for the Fed is to hold
          rates where they are and "sit here for an extended period of time."     
          "If disinflation starts to come again and inflation starts to tick back down or we saw some marked weakening
          in the labor market, then that might lead us to cut back on interest rates," he said in an interview at the Milken
          Institute Global Conference.                                            
                                                                                  
          The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield edged lower, settling at 4.460%.   
          In other earnings, shares of Celsius fell 1.8% after the energy-drink company's first-quarter sales missed
          analyst expectations.                                                   
                                                                                  
          Palantir Technologies tumbled more than 15%. The data-analytics company late Monday reported
          stronger-than-expected revenue but a sharp slowdown in growth for its U.S. commercial business.
          Tesla declined 2.9% after a federal regulator asked the electric-vehicle maker for more information regarding
          its Autopilot system tied to a December recall.                         
          Among the companies still due to report this week are Uber on Wednesday and Warner Bros. Discovery on
          Thursday.                                                               
                                                                                  
          Overseas, the Stoxx Europe 600 rose 1.1%. At midday Wednesday, Japan's Nikkei 225 was down 1.4% and
          Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index was up 0.4%. S&P 500 futures were down slightly.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240508ek580001s                                      
                                                                                  
          