                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup CEO Fraser Races To Turn Around Sluggish Bank ................................................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupCEOFraserRacesToTurnAroundSluggishBank                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup CEO Fraser Races To Turn Around Sluggish Bank                 
          By Justin Baer                                                          
          2,131 words                                                             
          26 June 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Jane Fraser has hit the midpoint of what the chief executive has called a critical year in her plan to fix
          Citigroup.                                                              
          If she's successful, Citi might be the biggest turnaround story in recent Wall Street history. But skeptics are
          everywhere, in the auditorium at the bank's recent investor conference and upstairs in the offices of its
          headquarters. She's made progress, but more is needed. And soon.        
          "Yes, there is still a lot more to do," she said at the conference. "We have simply come too far to let up now."
          Two decades of half-measures, strategic missteps and chronic underinvestment have led Citi, once the
          world's largest financial-services company, to this: a network that operates in 160 countries but badly lags
          behind its U.S. rivals in profitability and stock performance. A firm famed for its ties to foreign central banks
          that can't stay out of the Federal Reserve's doghouse for weaknesses in its internal controls. A glittering
          roster of clients who too often turn elsewhere for their most-important needs.
          Fraser is pursuing everything, all at once, in her quest to change Citi's direction. Her priority is grappling with
          regulators' demands to fix the troubled bank's internal systems. She's also slashing costs, simplifying the
          organization and seeking to jump-start growth at key businesses. And she's trying to revive a stock that's
          been stuck more than 80% below its high for 15 years.                   
          Interviews with more than three dozen current and former Citigroup executives, board members, clients,
          competitors and investors reveal that doubters are easy to find. Regulators and shareholders want her to
          accelerate. Some clients think she's moving too fast, including a top investment manager that bristled at the
          abrupt changes to Citi staff and services.                              
          There isn't a day that goes by without Fraser catching grief from one corner or another. The calls for change
          are relentless, and often contradictory. But she's grown used to it. "It's OK," she said in an interview. "I feel
          uncomfortable every single day."                                        
          Over the past year, she has replaced business heads with outsiders, unveiled steps to cut 20,000 jobs from
          the bank's payroll and started to separate from Citi's Mexican consumer bank, Banamex, which had been
          roiled by fraud allegations in years past. Fraser, 56 years old, has laid out her plans to fix the bank for
          everyone to see. Transparency, she said, "is a very good way of forcing you to deliver."
          It's also often unsettling. Employees are uncertain where they stand, or even if they'll still be there when the
          dust settles.                                                           
                                                                                  
          Fraser, who became CEO in March 2021, acknowledges her plan still has years to go -- and she may not
          have years. If the strategy doesn't pan out, calls to break up the once-dominant bank will grow louder.
          The company's shares trade at about 0.6 times book value, well below those of all of its rivals. While they're
          up almost 20% so far this year, there's still a long way to go to get back to their record high, set in 2006.
          Regulators have pressed the bank for years to fix its controls. An acquisition spree left Citi with a jumble of
          internal systems it never fully integrated. Calls from business leaders to improve technology functions went
          unheeded. And when executives had to choose between expensive upgrades and short-term profitability
          goals, the latter almost always won out.                                
          Then, in August 2020, an employee accidentally wired nearly $900 million to creditors of Revlon, an episode
          that crystallized the government's fears that whatever Citi was doing to fix its problems was too little, too late.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Federal regulators issued the consent orders, decrees that prod banks to address weaknesses, in October
          2020, citing "significant ongoing deficiencies." They revealed just how much of a problem child Citi had
          become. As Fraser sat listening to a call with bankers that month, the outline of a turnaround plan took shape.
          "This is not going to be about remediating," she thought. "This is about transforming the bank, and goddamn
          it, we're going to get it right this time."                             
          That trouble remains top of mind for regulators. Some branches of government value Citi's ties to foreign
          central banks and proximity to the digital pipes that move money around the world, helping Citi advance
          foreign policy and police money laundering.                             
          Other officials fret that even a slimmed-down Citi remains too big to manage, and prefer to see a diminished
          entity emerge. A breakup, they say, should be on the table.             
                                                                                  
          "They are never, ever, getting out of those consent orders," one former Citi executive said.
          Fraser is a well-liked executive who forged deep ties throughout Wall Street as a McKinsey consultant well
          before she signed on at Citi 20 years ago. Many are pulling for her, even as they acknowledge the
          challenging path ahead.                                                 
                                                                                  
          She has sought to keep her executives moving forward by keeping it light. Fraser is known to pull elaborate
          pranks on her team, while insisting life would be boring at another big bank. "We're fighters," she said. For
          those who stick around, like finance chief Mark Mason did when he passed on the chance to pursue a CEO
          role at the private-equity firm Carlyle last year, a "career-defining opportunity" awaits. But the plan has to
          work.                                                                   
          "We know exactly who we are," Fraser said. "We know what we're not. We know this bank is important in the
          world."                                                                 
          Citi's relevance was unquestioned in 1998, when Sandy Weill pitched John Reed on his audacious plan to
          merge Travelers Group with Citicorp. The $83 billion merger -- which brought together traditional banking,
          consumer finance, insurance and investment banking services -- created the world's biggest
          financial-services company.                                             
          The bank's global network was initially hailed as a unique franchise, but soon proved too unwieldy to
          manage. Trouble spots formed in bunches at some of Citi's foreign outposts, putting the bank on the
          defensive with regulators on three continents.                          
          Citi barely survived the crisis. A government rescue kept it going, but only after officials forced the bank to sell
          businesses to raise capital. By late 2012, then-Chairman Michael O'Neill led a boardroom revolt against CEO
          Vikram Pandit to make way for Fraser's predecessor, Mike Corbat, a former banker who had spearheaded
          the sales of unwanted businesses after the crisis.                      
          Corbat took over as a new era was dawning on Wall Street. Emboldened by ultralow interest rates and an
          improving economy, companies and individuals began to buy, borrow and invest again. Bank stocks took off,
          even as the firms navigated new regulations.                            
          Citi appeared primed to join them. Instead, it failed to capitalize. "The Mikes," as insiders called them,
          prioritized cost-cutting as the path to achieving higher returns. Those returns did rebound, but soon
          executives were imploring them to invest more, and address outmoded systems. A person familiar with the
          bank's strategy in that era said the cuts were necessary to match a drop in revenue that came as Citi shrunk
          itself. The person also said business leaders had budgets in the tens of billions of dollars and the authority to
          invest as they saw fit.                                                 
          O'Neill retired in January 2019. Later that year, Corbat and the board picked Fraser as the choice to succeed
          him someday as CEO.                                                     
          Fraser, born and raised in Scotland, began her career as a junior banker at Goldman. She earned an M.B.A.
          from Harvard Business School before joining McKinsey.                   
          The years at McKinsey gave her an inside view on how global companies operate. A 1999 book she co-wrote
          hailed Citi as a model for "leveraging superior business-system productivity costs in different geographies."
                                                                                  
          Her insights caught the attention of Michael Klein, Citi's former banking head, who persuaded her to join the
          company in 2004. She was named head of strategy three years later, then took on a series of increasingly
          larger operating roles: first running the private bank, then mortgage lending, U.S. consumer banking and, by
          2015, all of Latin America.                                             
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In October 2019, when Citi's board agreed Fraser would eventually succeed Corbat, the bank appointed her
          president and consumer banking head. Some directors hoped she would remain in that role for several years
          to gain further seasoning, and by that point Corbat had given no indication he was ready to retire.
          The regulatory rebuke in 2020 altered Citi's plans. The board accepted Corbat's resignation within weeks of
          the Revlon fiasco, figuring a new CEO would put the bank on better footing with regulators and shareholders.
          The job went to Fraser, the first woman to lead one of the largest U.S. banks.
          As she started to tour Citi offices and meet with the bank's various stakeholders, Fraser remembered to heed
          the advice Peter Henry, a director, had offered that fall: "You have to have big ears and thick skin."
          Shareholders wanted higher returns yesterday, but they also felt stung by failed promises. Few investors who
          have sold their Citi shares in favor of other bank stocks have regretted it, said Glenn Schorr, an Evercore ISI
          analyst. "JPMorgan has had its time, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- there were always
          better stories, and less trouble," he said.                             
          There would be no quick fixes. "I felt like I had to almost imagine we were owned by private equity, and take
          that long-term view," Fraser said.                                      
                                                                                  
          While the work began in earnest to address the regulators' concerns, Fraser withheld her reorganization plan
          for more than a year. The tactic led to questions, even from some board members, about why she hadn't
          moved faster.                                                           
          The plan was revealed in full in March 2022, when Fraser said the bank would simplify and flatten its
          organization, and focus on five divisions.                              
          Citi already serves more than 90% of the Fortune 500 and 25% of the world's billionaires, largely through its
          services arm and foreign-currency trading desk. They offer a base from which to deliver other services, like
          banking and money-management advice. Citi also plans to extend its reach to more midsize companies.
                                                                                  
          Fraser has set targets for profitability, aiming to lift returns on tangible common equity to 11% to 12% by the
          end of 2026.                                                            
          It was what investors wanted to hear. "What's been laid out is what the company needed," Joe Pittman, an
          investment analyst for Harris Associates, a Citi shareholder. "We always thought the earnings power of the
          business was above what it had been doing."                             
          Within weeks, Fraser's plan picked up a valued endorsement. Warren Buffett bought nearly $3 billion in Citi
          shares.                                                                 
          Buffett's association with one of Citi's predecessor companies began in 1987, when Berkshire Hathaway
          invested in Salomon Brothers. A 1991 scandal had forced Buffett to step in to clean up the mess. Salomon
          was never the same, and in 1997 the firm sold itself to Weill's Travelers. That deal helped salvage Berkshire's
          investment, but the ordeal left scars. For decades, Buffett cited the episode as a cautionary tale.
          Berkshire is now Citi's fourth-biggest shareholder and Fraser has attended the last two Berkshire annual
          shareholders' meetings.                                                 
                                                                                  
          There have been signs of progress. Citi has now sold or wound down 12 international consumer-banking
          businesses and simplified the organization that remains.                
          Citi pulled the outright sale of Banamex after the bank misjudged the political climate in Mexico. A planned
          spinout is set to begin in 2025, and Citi remains in touch with several prospective bidders.
                                                                                  
          The bank has spent the past six months culling staff and closing businesses it had operated for decades, and
          more cuts are coming. Morale is near a low point. Some employees believe a coterie of London-based Citi
          bankers have been bashing Fraser anonymously in online message boards below news stories.
          Even some of the bank's recent wins, including recruiting Bank of America's Andy Sieg and JPMorgan
          Chase's Vis Raghavan to run wealth management and investment banking, respectively, are dismissed by
          some critics as hollow victories.                                       
          Potshots at the bank's new hires miss the bigger point, Schorr said.    
          "If they are able to bring the know-how of running a good franchise, how to prioritize things, what to avoid,
          what investments to make and to attract some people, then they're phenomenal acquisitions," he said.
                                                                                  
          If turning Citi around weren't so hard, it would have happened by now.  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "There are easier places to work," Fraser said.                         
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Andrew Ackerman contributed to this article.                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240626ek6q0001f                                      
                                                                                  
          