                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley Wealth Division Is Probed .............................................................................................................. 2
          Wealth Management Is Risky for Banks --- Catering to the rich offers high returns and room for growth, but it isn't
          for every big lender................................................................................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MorganStanleyWealthDivisionIsProbed                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley Wealth Division Is Probed                                
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          587 words                                                               
          12 April 2024                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Multiple federal regulators are probing Morgan Stanley over how it vets clients who are at risk of laundering
          money through the bank's sprawling wealth-management division.          
          The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and other Treasury
          Department offices are involved, according to people familiar with the matter. That is in addition to the
          Federal Reserve, whose similar probe The Wall Street Journal reported in November. The Fed has told the
          bank that supervisory action is under consideration.                    
          The main issues regulators are looking at boil down to whether Morgan Stanley has been sufficiently
          investigating the identities of prospective clients and where their wealth comes from, as well as how it
          monitors its clients' financial activity. Some of the probes are focused on the bank's international clients.
          The bank has been working on addressing the issues regulators have raised. When asked about some of the
          regulatory scrutiny in January, Morgan Stanley's former chief executive and current executive chairman,
          James Gorman, told the Journal the bank is investing in compliance, technology and artificial intelligence to
          better understand the flow of money tied to its wealth business.        
          Morgan Stanley shares fell sharply after the Journal reported on the wider probe and closed down more than
          5%.                                                                     
          The SEC last year sent Morgan Stanley a list of current and former clients with questions about how they
          were vetted. It also questioned why Morgan Stanley's financial-adviser unit, which works directly with affluent
          individuals, did business with some clients who were cut off by E*Trade, the Morgan Stanley-owned
          digital-trading platform, because of red flags.                         
          The SEC's list includes a billionaire with ties to Russia who has been sanctioned by the U.K. and an individual
          who said she was based in the U.S. but whose activity on E*Trade indicated she was located on a Caribbean
          island and had more money in her account than would be typical for someone with her stated occupation.
          The Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, known as FinCEN, also sent the bank a list of client
          names, at least some overlapping with the SEC's. Morgan Stanley also received an administrative subpoena
          from the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control requesting information on the firm's sanctions policies
          and procedures, according to a bank document viewed by the Journal.     
          The OCC late last year sent Morgan Stanley what is known as a matter requiring attention over customer due
          diligence. That followed an annual exam of the bank's anti-money-laundering and related programs,
          according to some of the people and a Morgan Stanley document that says the firm sent detailed action plans
          to the regulator.                                                       
          Morgan Stanley's wealth unit has been critical to the firm's strategy since the 2008-09 financial crisis. The
          bank made several acquisitions, including those of Smith Barney and, more recently, E*Trade, that turned it
          into a wealth-management juggernaut overseeing a total of about $5 trillion. The division, which accounts for
          about half of the company's total revenue, generates steady revenue streams Morgan Stanley relies on to
          help smooth out downturns in investment banking and trading.            
          The wealth division has been showing signs of slowing down, with revenue flat in the fourth quarter from a
          year earlier. Net new assets totaled $47.5 billion in the period, down 8% from a year earlier after a 45%
          decline in the third quarter.                                           
          Document J000000020240412ek4c00026                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WealthManagementIsRiskyforBanks---Cateringtotherichoffershighreturnsandroomforgrowth,butitisn'tforeverybiglender
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Wealth Management Is Risky for Banks --- Catering to the rich offers high returns and room for
          growth, but it isn't for every big lender                               
          By Jon Sindreu                                                          
          946 words                                                               
          1 April 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Today's markets love nothing more than a growth narrative and with wealth management, banks finally have
          one. The risk is that they all crowd in at the same time.               
          Among banks valued above $100 billion, Morgan Stanley and UBS have been the top stock-market
          performers of the past half-decade. Both companies bet on wealth management and private banking. Morgan
          Stanley, now the highest-valued big bank in the world, acquired asset manager Eaton Vance and online
          broker E*Trade with a goal of managing $10 trillion in client assets. UBS incorporated Credit Suisse, creating
          a wealth-focused behemoth under the "Swiss banking" brand.              
          Understandably, others are trying to follow in their wake. Goldman Sachs, the emblematic Wall Street trading
          house, has merged and reshuffled its asset- and wealth-management divisions in a push to make them
          generate a much bigger chunk of the group's earnings. France's BNP Paribas is planning "massive growth" in
          Switzerland to scoop up some of Credit Suisse's former business, according to an interview with the boss of
          its Swiss wealth division in trade publication Citywire.                
          Britain's HSBC and Lloyds also are moving in this direction. Even Barclays, which in February ruled out a full
          pivot away from investment banking, aims to strengthen its small Private Bank & Wealth Management arm.
          Deutsche Bank has hired more relationship and investment managers in Germany even as it has retreated
          from investment banking.                                                
          The industry's love affair with the rich is a rational one. Post-2008 regulations require banks to hold more
          capital, which is a bigger problem for investment banking than for relatively capital-light wealth management.
          Among top banks in the U.S. and Europe, wealth- and asset-management arms had an average return on
          tangible equity of 21% in 2023, compared with a paltry 12% for investment banking.
          Also, the trading gains made by investment banks, which depend on the gyrations of financial markets, are an
          unreliable source of income. Even stripping out the 2008 crash and the pandemic, since 2004 they have been
          four times as volatile as fees and commissions. Moreover, transaction-based fees made up only 15% of
          wealth-management revenue in 2023, according to Coalition Greenwich. Rich clients, who are usually locked
          in for years, pay much more in recurring fees, hold large amounts of cash and, crucially, take out loans. This
          means a lot of stable net interest income, which amounted to almost half of revenue.
          To boot, wealth management is poised for growth. The UBS Global Wealth Report anticipates that there will
          be 86 million millionaires in the world by 2027, up from 59 million in 2022. It is a market served by local
          relationships, which means the top banks have only a 32% share, Coalition Greenwich research shows. That
          leaves room for growth. In trading and corporate finance, where economies of scale are strong, top banks'
          share rises to 67% and 48%, respectively.                               
          Digital technology, artificial intelligence and greater access to private markets seem likely to make large
          wealth platforms increasingly attractive to clients as well, especially for the "mass affluent" who have between
          $250,000 and $1 million in investible assets.                           
          This cohort currently makes up less than one-quarter of the wealth revenue of the top players. Providing
          automated customized recommendations to them as a kind of "Netflix of banking" was one of UBS's pitches
          before the Credit Suisse acquisition.                                   
          But there are risks as banks all pile into the theme. High-net-worth individuals -- those with more than $1
          million -- might be able to drive a harder bargain in a more-crowded market. Below that line, low-cost
          robo-advising technology is already squeezing profit margins.           
          Page 3 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The surge in wealth-management assets in recent years also has been matched by increasing expenses.
          Cost-to-income ratios average 77%, compared with 68% for investment banking and 56% for other banking
          lines. The U.S., where financial advisers play a more prominent role, is a particularly high-cost market.
          Today's wealth management is both relationship-based and reliant on hefty technology investments. This
          means firms find it much easier to grow through acquisitions, which can cost a lot. In 2022, for example, UBS
          agreed to -- and then backed out of -- a deal to buy California-based digital platform Wealthfront at a steep
          valuation, in an attempt to reach out to affluent millennials and Gen Zers. Executives have since shifted their
          attention to the ultrawealthy and are now trying to penetrate the U.S. by wooing family offices.
          The room to grow varies greatly depending on geography. In North America, top banks hold half the market.
          In Asia-Pacific, it is only 10%.                                        
          UBS last week laid out plans to boost its presence in Asia, which makes sense given that it dominates the
          market. It is the same for HSBC, which last year bought Citi's retail wealth-management portfolio in China.
          Similarly, Deutsche Bank's focus on rich clients in its domestic market seems wise.
          But lenders should be wary of venturing into high-cost areas where they don't have a strong foothold, whether
          geographically or in terms of the clients targeted. This is why Goldman's ambitious wealth-management foray
          under Marc Nachmann, who comes from a markets and investment-banking background, seems risky -- even
          if it is going well so far.                                             
          The bank's recent retreat from consumer banking came with a broader lesson: Not everybody can do
          everything.                                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020240401ek410000n                                      
          