                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          More 401(k) Owners May Soon Vote on Issues Like Musk Pay .............................................................................. 2
          Bullish Investors Flood Into Stock, Bond Funds....................................................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          More401(k)OwnersMaySoonVoteonIssuesLikeMuskPay                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          More 401(k) Owners May Soon Vote on Issues Like Musk Pay                
          By Jon Sindreu                                                          
          970 words                                                               
          3 June 2024                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Do you think Elon Musk should be paid $47 billion to keep his attention focused on Tesla? Or that Disney has
          gone "woke?" Or that Shell isn't moving away from oil fast enough?      
          If, like many people, you own these companies through mutual or exchange-traded funds -- say, as part of
          your 401(k) -- you don't get a say in these matters; only your fund manager does. But this could soon change
          as big investment firms embrace "pass-through voting." That is, giving clients a voice during proxy season --
          the spring period when listed corporations hold annual general meetings.
          Since 2022, BlackRock has rolled out pass-through voting for some institutional clients in its equity tracker
          funds. This season, the experiment was extended to the three million U.S. retail shareholders of the
          company's mammoth iShares Core S&P 500 ETF. So far, the owners of $600 billion worth of assets opted in.
          Vanguard and State Street Global Advisors have similar projects with an increasing number of funds.
          Of course, big clients with separate accounts at asset-management firms already had the ability to vote. As
          did individual investors, even if they owned single stocks through trading platforms. Recently, eToro said
          votes were cast on an unprecedented 24% of the Tesla shares owned by its users, with 80% backing Musk's
          pay package.                                                            
          Still, most people stash their savings in passive funds that track hundreds of companies. Wading through all
          the relevant 100-page proxy statements to vote on mostly mundane resolutions would be unbearable. This is
          why the pass-through voting systems unveiled by the big index-fund managers include a limited menu of
          options for individual investors, such as following recommendations from proxy-advisory firms ISS and Glass
          Lewis. Both recently urged shareholders to vote against Musk's pay.     
          Funds are getting serious about pass-through voting because of digital technology, which is fueling a trend
          toward customization and helping cut through a messy, old-school proxy system.
          It isn't straightforward to ascertain who owns what to grant them the appropriate voting rights, especially when
          many investors own funds through brokerage or wealth platforms. Financial technology firms, most
          prominently Broadridge, can solve this problem by liaising with all involved parties.
          Yet pass-through voting may be gaining favor because strategies focused on environmental, social and
          corporate-governance issues are losing it.                              
                                                                                  
          In 2021, when ESG was in its heyday, BlackRock CEO Larry Fink told his shareholders his firm's fund
          managers would influence company boards to promote racial and social justice. Three years later, Fink has
          come under fire in an anti-ESG backlash. Consumer products including beer, apparel and electric cars have
          become increasingly politicized.                                        
          BlackRock and most of its peers have maintained ESG is about extracting greater financial value, not politics.
          But drawing the line is hard. Take Shell: Ahead of its annual meeting last week, big investment managers
          such as Amundi filed a resolution pushing for greater alignment with Paris climate agreement targets, which
          ended up receiving 19% of the vote despite executives' opposition. Such a move may well have met ethical
          goals and reduced risks of regulatory backlash, but enough to justify pumping less crude at $80 a barrel?
          Perhaps not.                                                            
          The underlying problem is that green-minded pension holders in Scandinavia and evangelical 401(k) savers
          in Alabama have very different values.                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          For top ETF providers that rely on mass appeal, such as BlackRock, Vanguard and State Street, it seems
          smart to pass these political footballs to clients. The Republican-backed Index Act of 2022 was a warning that
          lawmakers could force them to do so. This defuses some antitrust concerns about index funds owning most
          corporations in the developed world.                                    
          Today's pass-through voting stops short of granting a voice on specific agenda items such as the
          compensation of Tesla's boss. Introducing single-issue votes is technologically complex and could raise legal
          questions if investors knowingly vote against a company's interests.    
          But that could change thanks to startups such as Tumelo, originally founded by Cambridge University
          students to allow for greater control over the university's endowment fund.
          London-based Legal & General Investment Management has started to use Tumelo's technology to offer its
          clients, the Camden Pension Fund and the Superannuation Arrangements of the University of London, the
          possibility of voting across all of its pooled investments based on the recommendations of PIRC, a
          voting-policy provider they have selected. Crucially, both can override PIRC and directly vote on key issues.
          LGIM's stewardship team makes the decision if neither PIRC nor the ultimate investors take a view -- or in the
          rare cases when it believes the choices go against its fiduciary duty.  
          Although not yet used by individual investors, the technology is ready for it, Tumelo CEO and co-founder
          Georgia Stewart said.                                                   
          This could be a glimpse into the future. ETF holders may soon be able to choose from an extensive menu of
          proxy-voting policies tailored to their political preferences, and then cast specific votes on the issues they
          strongly care about. Generative artificial intelligence could dramatically lower the cost of designing policies
          that appeal to different groups.                                        
          The big question is how this would change corporate governance. So far, Broadridge data suggests individual
          investors are less favorable to environmental and social proposals than fund managers. The latter also tend
          to side with executives, who currently get their way in roughly 90% of resolutions. Indeed, "always agree with
          management" is among the few pass-through options allowed by today's index providers.
          As with real democracy, shareholder democracy may bring with it more flashy campaigns -- and the odd big
          upset.                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Page 3 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240603ek630000e                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BullishInvestorsFloodIntoStock,BondFunds                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bullish Investors Flood Into Stock, Bond Funds                          
          By Jack Pitcher                                                         
          791 words                                                               
          29 May 2024                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Investors are finally putting their money where their mouths are.       
          U.S.-based mutual and exchange-traded funds have drawn a net $172 billion of inflows so far this year, a
          marked turnaround after they collectively bled assets in each of the past two years.
          The flows mark a break from the risk aversion that investors had shown for much of the past two years and
          an embrace of the narrative that a strong U.S. economy will support financial markets. Assets in
          money-market funds and other cashlike products that investors favored last year have plateaued. Investors
          are putting their money to work in stocks and bonds instead.            
          "The economy is in good shape, labor markets are in good shape and central banks globally look ready to
          provide support," said Michael Arone, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors. "That's an
          attractive backdrop for investing, and it's the primary reason you're seeing an increased appetite for
          everything."                                                            
          Flows to U.S. stock and bond funds this year are the strongest since 2021, when interest rates were near
          zero. Globally, the net $468 billion invested in ETFs through April is the highest on record, according to
          ETFGI data.                                                             
          The soft-landing trade appears fully back in vogue after several months of hot inflation data rattled investor
          confidence. The most recent consumer-price data was lower than forecast, and first-quarter earnings results
          showed booming corporate profits. The S&P 500 is up 11% in 2024, trading just below its record.
          Skeptics argue that equity valuations look expensive and the extra yield offered by risky corporate debt is
          historically low. The S&P 500's price compared with expected earnings over the next 12 months is currently in
          the top decile of its historical range, according to Morgan Stanley.    
                                                                                  
          This week, traders will closely watch Friday's release of the personal-consumption expenditures index, the
          Federal Reserve's preferred inflation gauge. Markets appear sanguine about the economic outlook currently,
          but a hot inflation number could cast doubt on their hopes for interest-rate cuts.
          Wall Street is currently pricing in at least one cut later this year, though minutes from the Fed's most recent
          meeting showed central-bank officials are still concerned about persisting inflation. If the easier monetary
          policy that investors are anticipating doesn't materialize, the stock-market rally is likely to sputter, analysts
          warn.                                                                   
          Investors look anything but defensive. Of the 10 ETFs that have taken in the most money this year, just one is
          a bond fund. Two track the price of bitcoin.                            
          The leader, the Vanguard S&P 500 ETF, is on pace for a banner year. Investors have added a net $37 billion
          in less than five months; the annual record for any ETF inflow is $50 billion.
          The risk-taking extends into fixed-income markets, where some of the most popular funds over the past
          month hold riskier corporate bonds and loans that pay higher yields.    
                                                                                  
          "In the last few weeks, we've seen significant inflows to loans," Arone added. "That tells me that investors'
          risk appetite is elevated, their confidence is higher and they're willing to take credit risk."
          Shane Archuleta, a 29-year-old IT professional in Fort Myers, Fla., is one of the investors rushing into the
          market. Archuleta said he now tries to invest almost 50% of his after-tax income in retirement and taxable
          accounts that he manages on Robinhood and E*Trade.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Archuleta has mostly been buying ETFs, including Vanguard's S&P 500 fund, a Vanguard growth fund and
          Invesco's QQQ, which tracks the Nasdaq-100 index. With a multidecade investment horizon, he says he
          prefers higher-risk, growth-oriented funds for now.                     
          "My big thing is, 'Don't bet against the U.S. equity market.' I have no doubt in the very long run it's going to go
          up," Archuleta said.                                                    
          Fund managers are optimistic, too. Bank of America's most recent survey of fund managers showed the most
          bullish sentiment since 2021. The survey found cash levels at multiyear lows and stock allocations at
          multiyear highs.                                                        
          Flows tend to lag behind performance. Stocks and bonds got crushed by the Fed's rate-rising campaign in
          2022, so a slower 2023 wasn't necessarily a surprise, said Aniket Ullal, head of ETF data and analytics at
          CFRA Research.                                                          
                                                                                  
          What stands out this year is the breadth of funds taking in money. Investors aren't just putting all their money
          into the booming technology sector.                                     
          "The flows are very broad-based across all categories," Ullal said. "It's not like a couple of funds or categories
          are carrying the space."                                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240529ek5t0003h                                      
                                                                                  
          