                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Apple Shuts Its Buy-Now, Pay-Later Service ................................................................................ 2
          Apple Pay Gives Banks a Bigger Bite ...................................................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:AppleShutsItsBuy-Now,Pay-LaterService                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Apple Shuts Its Buy-Now, Pay-Later Service               
          By Joseph Pisani                                                        
          202 words                                                               
          18 June 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Apple is ending its buy- now, pay-later service, just over a year after launching it.
          The service, called Apple Pay Later, allowed customers to split purchases between $50 and $1,000 into four
          payments spread over six weeks with no interest and no fees.            
          The initiative, unveiled in March 2023, was part of the company's push to use finance to deepen its
          relationship with consumers. It competed with buy-now, pay-later companies such as Affirm and Klarna.
          Apple's website said Monday that the company is "no longer offering new loans" for Apple Pay Later, but that
          existing ones aren't affected. The company said it plans to offer a way for people to apply for buy now, pay
          later loans from other companies when they check out with Apple Pay, its payment system.
                                                                                  
          Last week, Apple announced one of those companies would be Affirm, which it is adding as an option in the
          fall. Citigroup and Synchrony Financial will also be a part of the rollout, Apple said. The company is also
          adding a scannable code that will help shoppers use Apple Pay across the web.
          Document J000000020240618ek6i0000x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ApplePayGivesBanksaBiggerBite                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Apple Pay Gives Banks a Bigger Bite                                     
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          469 words                                                               
          17 June 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Apple is sometimes called a disrupter to banks. But relationships in financial technology are much more
          complicated than that.                                                  
          Announcements out of the tech company's latest product showcase included enhancements to Apple Pay,
          the digital wallet whose size and stature has rapidly expanded in recent years. They included a feature that
          will enable banks to offer buy now, pay later installment payments via their cards loaded into users' Apple
          Pay wallets. In the U.S., Citigroup, Synchrony Financial and Apple Pay issuers using Fiserv, a software
          provider to many banks, will be part of the initial rollout, Apple said.
          One of the threats to banks' credit-card businesses are buy now, pay later options offered by other lenders,
          including Apple itself. So for banks, it is a win to be able to offer customers the option to convert a card
          purchase into an installment-payment option right at the point of purchase.
          Apple also is introducing the ability to pay for a purchase with card rewards, adding that much more value to
          those points, and giving banks another opportunity to win a transaction. Discover Financial Services,
          Synchrony and Fiserv's issuers will be the initial participants, Apple said.
          To further expand Apple Pay's reach, Apple will enable payments via third-party browsers with a code that
          can be scanned with a phone -- meaning a card in a user's iPhone digital wallet can effectively make
          payments across the web, too.                                           
          All this continues to bring the credit card -- banks' bread-and-butter retail product, generating transaction fees
          and interest on revolving balances -- to more forms of e-commerce retail sale. This helps banks keep their
          customer spending growing and compete with upstart payment types.       
          Of course, there is a price. The Wall Street Journal reported that banks in the U.S. agreed to pay Apple
          0.15% of a purchase made with a credit card via Apple Pay. And non-monetarily, it gives Apple a big seat at
          the table with customers and their financial lives.                     
                                                                                  
          This is how things go in the world of "fintech."                        
          Few developments are a straightforward win or loss for traditional players or newer entrants. Apple and banks
          could go their separate ways. But then Apple would lose out on many transactions, and banks would battle to
          push people toward friendly wallets.                                    
          It will be interesting to see how consumers sort out these options. Apple will also continue to have its own
          Apple Pay Later installment option, and it announced that U.S. users will be able to apply for loans through
          buy now, pay later provider Affirm when they pay with Apple Pay.        
          Disruption comes in many forms. And it is rarely a one-way street.      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240617ek6h0000v                                      
          