                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Venture Mega-Rounds Come Back to Biotech......................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          VentureMega-RoundsComeBacktoBiotech                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Venture Mega-Rounds Come Back to Biotech                                
          By Brian Gormley                                                        
          691 words                                                               
          27 September 2024                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B8                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Venture mega-rounds are on the rise in biotechnology as the outlook for the industry brightens.
          Sixty-eight U.S. and European biotech startups raised venture financings of $100 million or more this year
          through Aug. 31, putting this year on track to at least approach the 106 mega-rounds closed in 2021, the
          highest number on record, according to Silicon Valley Bank.             
          Venture capitalists are increasingly confident that biotech is stabilizing after two years in which valuations
          reset lower from their 2021 highs. Mega-rounds also reflect a flight to quality, as investors crowd around what
          they view as the strongest companies, some observers said.              
          "We're seeing investors really focus on quality over quantity," said Jackie Spencer, head of U.S. relationship
          management, life science and healthcare for SVB.                        
          Mega-rounds are becoming common, even though fewer deals are getting done and less venture capital is
          going into biotech. Venture investors put $15.3 billion into 351 biotech financings in this year's first half,
          compared with $36.6 billion through 845 rounds in all of 2021, according to SVB.
                                                                                  
          Giant financings help startups propel medicines through clinical trials and buffer them against setbacks. And
          they reduce one of the biggest risks in biotech: that a company will run out of cash before its drug shows
          potential.                                                              
          To be sure, mega-rounds can lead to trouble if a startup blows through its newfound capital. Investors will
          often push for financings to be meted out in tranches to protect themselves in just such cases.
          Reunion Neuroscience, a Morristown, N.J.-based company targeting psychedelic drugs for mental-health
          disorders, recently raised a $103 million Series A round in three tranches, with roughly one-third coming up
          front, about one-third awarded for reaching milestones in its mid-stage, or Phase 2, clinical trial, and the rest if
          the trial yields positive results, Chief Executive Greg Mayes said.     
          "It's a way to pay for performance and requires that the companies remain disciplined," Mayes added.
                                                                                  
          Mega-deals this year also differ from those closed in 2021 in that they come together more slowly. Back then,
          it might have taken only weeks; these days, the pace is more measured. Because competition for deals has
          eased, investors have more time to evaluate startups and are finding several with compelling data and
          reasonable valuations, observers said.                                  
          "Investors are discriminating more today," said Stephanie Sirota, partner and chief business officer of
          life-sciences investor RTW Investments. "The diligence that is happening today feels like it is more rigorous."
          Boston-based Superluminal Medicines, which applies machine-learning, chemistry and other capabilities to
          drug discovery, raised a $120 million Series A round of financing earlier this month after collecting $33 million
          in seed funding last year.                                              
          The company, which develops oral treatments for metabolic diseases and other conditions, used its seed
          financing and technology to create six drug programs. That helped catalyze this latest round, an infusion that
          will enable the company to put its first drug into clinical trials and advance other compounds, CEO Cony
          D'Cruz said.                                                            
          When raising funds, biotechs typically aim to secure enough capital to gather clinical data and support
          themselves for a year or more after, which gives them time to assess their next move. Startups raising large
          sums need specific plans for deploying the capital and avoid veering off course, some investors said.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "Having access to more capital does not necessarily mean it needs to be spent on more things," said Dr.
          Aaron Royston, a managing partner with biotech investor venBio. "Focus is really important."
          Startups raising mega-rounds at high valuations also can face pressure to grow into it -- and the prospect that
          their next financing will be done at a lower price if they don't succeed.
          "It can be a killer if you take a high valuation and then the next round you have to do a down round. The
          whole psyche of your investors goes sour," said Cheryl Reicin, partner and international chair of life sciences
          for law firm Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky and Popeo.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240927ek9r00036                                      
                                                                                  
          