                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan In Talks On Deal For Apple Credit Card ................................................................................................. 2
          Big Banks To Limit Hours For Young Staffers --- JPMorgan confines weekly hours to 80; Bank of America
          revamps timekeeping ............................................................................................................................................... 4
                                                                                  
          Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards......................................................................................................... 6
          EXCHANGE --- One Equity Raises $1.75 Billion for Latest Fund ............................................................................ 8
                                                                                  
          Wall Street Says Bye To Its Biggest Bear ................................................................................................................ 9
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganInTalksOnDealForAppleCreditCard                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan In Talks On Deal For Apple Credit Card                         
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Alexander Saeedy                             
          785 words                                                               
          18 September 2024                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase is talking with Apple about taking over the tech company's credit-card program.
          Discussions started earlier this year and have advanced in recent weeks, but a deal could still be months
          away, according to people familiar with the matter. It isn't guaranteed a deal will come together, given key
          details, including the price, are still to be negotiated.               
          Apple and Goldman Sachs, the current issuer of the card, decided to part ways last year on their partnership,
          which includes credit cards and savings accounts.                       
          Since then, Apple has spoken with several potential suitors, including Synchrony Financial and Capital One,
          to gauge their interest in taking over the credit-card program, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Goldman spoke with American Express last year, The Wall Street Journal reported at the time.
          A deal between JPMorgan and Apple would further tie together the U.S.'s biggest bank and one of the largest
          technology companies in the world. JPMorgan already offers its Chase customers deals on Apple products
          and pays the company whenever one of its millions of card customers uses Apple Pay. Landing the deal
          would expand Chase's card business -- already the biggest in the country -- while bringing along a loyal base
          of Apple customers to whom it can pitch more financial products. Apple, meanwhile, needs to find a new
          home for its credit card, which has more than 12 million users, after Goldman decided to abandon its push
          into consumer finance.                                                  
          Whenever a credit-card partnership changes hands, the bank offloading the program and the bank seeking to
          take it on generally have to agree to a transaction price for the existing card balances. With the Apple card
          program, Goldman holds the balances that will have to be sold. But JPMorgan and Apple also have to agree
          on terms and conditions, including the rewards program, offered to the consumers.
          The team at JPMorgan negotiating the deal wants to pay less than the full face value of the roughly $17
          billion in outstanding balances in the Apple credit-card program, the people said. Credit-card portfolios often
          sell at par or for a premium to the total loans, while accounts that have high delinquencies or some other flaw
          can sell at a loss.                                                     
          Apple's current program has both subprime exposure and terms associated with it that could be costly to take
          on for any issuer.                                                      
          Allison Beer, chief executive of the credit-card and connected commerce business at Chase, has been
          leading the bank's efforts to put a value on the Apple program over the past few months, people familiar with
          the matter said. Senior executives at JPMorgan, including CEO Jamie Dimon, have been briefed on the
          continuing negotiations, they said.                                     
          Dimon has said tech companies are increasingly becoming competitors to his business, forcing the bank to
          stay nimble and consider new partnerships.                              
                                                                                  
          "The banking system is not static," Dimon wrote in his letter to shareholders this year. "There are startup
          banks, mergers, successful upstarts and fintech banks, and even Apple, which effectively acts as a bank."
          (Apple works with many banks on Apple Pay and other financial services that it offers to consumers.)
          JPMorgan also wants to do away with key components of the card program, including Apple's requirement
          that all cardholders receive their statement at the beginning of the month, the people said. This unusual billing
          structure created customer-service issues for Goldman and, in turn, contributed to regulatory scrutiny of the
          bank's consumer-lending business.                                       
          Goldman tried more than once to persuade Apple to change the billing date, according to people familiar with
          the matter. Apple has signaled that it is open to making this change for JPMorgan.
          Page 2 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman is actively dealing with several challenges as it works to exit from the consumer sector, including
          limiting its losses.                                                    
          Last week, it disclosed that it expects to incur a roughly $400 million pretax hit on the eventual sale of its
          General Motors' credit-card business and a smaller, unrelated business. Barclays is negotiating a deal to buy
          the GM program, but the British bank has been unwilling to pay the price Goldman originally expected, in
          large part because of losses from highly delinquent borrowers, the Journal reported last week.
          Goldman could be facing a bigger loss when it sells the Apple credit-card program to a new issuer.
                                                                                  
          The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has also been investigating Goldman's credit-card practices. The
          probe, which Goldman disclosed in 2022, is focused on credit-card "account management practices,"
          according to the bank, including how Goldman resolves billing errors and refunds cardholders.
          Document J000000020240918ek9i0000m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BigBanksToLimitHoursForYoungStaffers---JPMorganconfinesweeklyhoursto80;BankofAmericarevampstimekeeping
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Big Banks To Limit Hours For Young Staffers --- JPMorgan confines weekly hours to 80; Bank of
          America revamps timekeeping                                             
          By Alexander Saeedy                                                     
          853 words                                                               
          13 September 2024                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America plan to limit and more closely track young bankers' hours following a
          Wall Street Journal investigation that detailed a dangerous culture of overwork on Wall Street.
          JPMorgan will now cap junior investment bankers' hours at 80 a week in most cases, people familiar with the
          matter said. Meanwhile, Bank of America is implementing a new timekeeping tool that requires junior bankers
          to go into more detail about how their time is spent, other people familiar with the matter said.
          The changes come after the Journal investigation, based on conversations with more than three dozen
          current and former bankers, revealed that junior bankers at Bank of America were routinely instructed to lie
          about their hours to avoid exceeding hourly limits.                     
          The question of how much to work junior employees, whose entry-level salaries can reach $200,000, has
          divided Wall Street for decades. Each year, thousands of young people start entry-level jobs in investment
          banking, attracted by the industry's reputation for turning hard workers into millionaires. But many of them
          said consistent bouts of working long hours are not only mentally grueling but also hazardous to their health.
          The death of a 35-year-old Bank of America associate who had been working 100-hour weeks led to an
          outcry in the industry about employee protections being ignored. Leo Lukenas III had been working on a team
          completing a $2 billion deal. An autopsy found he died of a blood clot that formed in a coronary artery.
          The weekly cap on hours at JPMorgan, a first for the bank, is the same as the New York state limit for hours
          of medical residents. The bank plans to make exceptions in certain cases, such as a live deal.
          Young bankers at JPMorgan already have a protected window from 6 p.m. Friday to noon Saturday and a
          guarantee of one full weekend off every three months. The bank, like most of its peers, has long monitored
          bankers' hours through self-reported time sheets. Young bankers have been known to put in 120 hours a
          week or more in the thick of a time-sensitive project.                  
          JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said in May the bank was asking "what can we learn from"
          Lukenas's death. Senior bankers have been communicating the new guideline to staff in recent weeks, some
          of the people familiar with the matter said.                            
          Bank of America had already capped young bankers' hours, but the Journal found that the guidelines were
          routinely violated and in some cases bosses told direct reports to lie about how much they were working.
          Shortly after the Journal's investigation was published, the bank told employees to alert superiors or the
          human-resources department if they were being pressured to lie about their hours, the Journal reported at the
          time.                                                                   
          In recent days, Bank of America unveiled a new tool in the company's timekeeping software that requires
          U.S.-based junior investment bankers to log their hours daily rather than weekly, people familiar with the
          matter said. They also will be required to detail which deals they are working on when, and which senior
          bankers are overseeing the assignments, the people said. Junior staff also can gauge how much capacity
          they have for more work on a scale from 1 to 4.                         
          The new reporting tool will go live next week, the people said. It was being developed before Lukenas's
          death.                                                                  
          "We successfully piloted this improved technology platform earlier this year to help our team more efficiently
          serve our investment banking clients," a spokesman for the bank said.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The death over a decade ago of a Bank of America intern in London who had logged long hours at the office
          prompted some soul-searching in the industry. But enforcement of protective guidelines put in place by many
          banks has been inconsistent over the years.                             
          At Goldman Sachs, junior bankers famously protested their working conditions in 2021 when the bank's deal
          business was booming. A person close to the bank said Goldman doesn't plan to change its policies in the
          near term but will continue to keep an eye on juniors' hours.           
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Protections for Most Junior                                             
          Bankers at Big Wall Street Banks                                        
                                                                                  
          Bank of America                                                         
          -- Human resources is flagged when hours worked exceed 80 a week, and intervenes after prolonged periods
          above that limit to mandate time off.                                   
                                                                                  
          -- Protected weekend day of no work, with no specific time frame.       
          JPMorgan Chase                                                          
                                                                                  
          -- 80-hour weekly cap on hours with exceptions for certain circumstances, such as a live deal.
          -- "Pencils down" period between 6 p.m. Friday and noon Saturday, with exceptions.
                                                                                  
          -- In the U.S., one protected full weekend off every three months, plus protected holidays with guaranteed
          time off.                                                               
          Goldman Sachs                                                           
                                                                                  
          -- No formal cap on hours worked.                                       
          -- "Protected Saturday" of no work between 9 p.m. Friday and 9 a.m. Sunday, with certain exceptions.
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley                                                          
          -- No formal cap on hours worked.                                       
                                                                                  
          -- No protected weekend time off.                                       
          Document J000000020240913ek9d00014                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ChaseWillBar'PayLater'LoansonItsCards                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          YOUR MONEY ADVISER                                                      
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Chase Will Bar 'Pay Later' Loans on Its Cards                           
          By Ann Carrns                                                           
          1,135 words                                                             
          27 July 2024                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          5                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Financial regulators and consumer advocates frown upon using credit cards to pay off installment loans
          because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into debt.
          JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest credit card issuer, will bar customers from using its credit cards to
          repay increasingly popular ''buy now, pay later'' installment loans.    
          Chase said in an emailed statement that buy now, pay later installment loans ''are a form of credit'' and that
          the bank did ''not generally allow customers to pay for credit products'' with their Chase credit cards.
          Chase has been alerting customers about the change, which takes effect on Oct. 10, and telling them to link a
          new form of payment to the pay later accounts to avoid missed payments and possible late fees. The bank
          declined to say what proportion of its cardholders use third-party pay-later services like Affirm, Afterpay,
          Klarna, PayPal and Sezzle.                                              
          Chase is not the first credit card issuer to make the move. Capital One, the fourth-largest card issuer, barred
          use of its credit cards for pay later loans in late 2020. In an emailed statement, Sarah Strauss, head of
          customer services and strategy at Capital One, said the bank ''encourages its customers to make responsible
          decisions when it comes to debt repayment.'' She added, ''Our longstanding policy is that we do not allow
          customers to pay other forms of debt on Capital One credit cards, including buy now pay later loans.''
          The change at Chase follows the announcement by a federal consumer watchdog agency to regulate the buy
          now, pay later loans as credit cards. It also comes as delinquencies on traditional credit cards are rising,
          causing banks to be more cautious even as they face competition from alternative pay-later lenders.
          Pay later loans, a modern version of layaway plans, are commonly called ''pay in four'' loans because they
          allow shoppers to pay for purchases in four payments, usually over six weeks. Details vary by company, but
          users typically owe no fees or interest if they make their payments on time. (Some pay later lenders may
          charge hefty late fees for missed payments.)                            
          The services are offered online during checkout, as well as in some stores or via mobile apps. Shoppers can
          get quick approval with a cursory credit check. (Some pay later providers also offer more traditional,
          longer-term installment loans that charge interest.)                    
          To participate, shoppers link their pay later account to a payment method, like a debit card, bank account or
          credit card. Payments are usually deducted automatically. In October, just over 9 percent of consumers said
          they had recently used a pay later loan. While that proportion was still relatively low, it was up roughly 40
          percent from two years earlier, according to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
          The practice of using credit cards to pay off the short-term installment loans is frowned upon, both by financial
          regulators and by consumer advocates, because of the risk that consumers will dig themselves further into
          debt. Shifting the required payments to a credit card means users can end up paying double-digit interest if
          they carry a balance on their credit card instead of paying it in full monthly. (The average interest rate on
          credit cards is around 22 percent.)                                     
          ''It makes no sense to use a credit card to service a buy now, pay later loan,'' said Lauren Saunders,
          associate director of the National Consumer Law Center. ''It defeats the purpose of the loan.'' If users want to
          put as many purchases as possible on a credit card, to earn points or rewards, Ms. Saunders said, they can
          also earn them by paying with the card directly rather than by using a pay later loan first.
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Given that research suggests financially vulnerable consumers are more likely to use pay later loans, using a
          credit card for the loans is ''highly problematic,'' said Jennifer Chien, senior policy counsel at Consumer
          Reports. Pay later borrowers on average are more likely to be ''highly indebted,'' to carry a balance on their
          credit cards and to have lower credit scores, according to a report last year from the Consumer Financial
          Protection Bureau.                                                      
          Michael Hershfield, founder and chief executive of Accrue Savings, a financial start-up that gives incentives to
          users to save for big purchases, said credit card companies preferred that customers used their own ''pay
          later'' options, rather than those of competitors. ''They want to build that user base,'' he said.
          Chase, for instance, offers a ''pay over time'' program that its credit card holders can use to break up
          payments for some purchases into smaller installments paid over weeks or months for a fixed monthly fee.
          Chase also offers its own pay-in-four loan to its checking account customers, allowing them to repay in four
          installments over eight weeks with no fee or interest.                  
          Ms. Chien said it was already ''standard practice'' for banks to bar credit card holders from using them to
          make direct payments to pay balances on other credit cards. (There are indirect options, like using balance
          transfer cards to move debt from one card to another.)                  
          Penny Lee, president and chief executive of the Financial Technology Association, an industry group
          representing several companies that offer pay later loans, including Klarna and PayPal, said Chase's new
          policy was ''unfortunate'' because it limited consumer choice. Ninety percent of pay later shoppers pay with a
          debit card, she said, suggesting they use the loans to ''smooth their spending and cash flow.''
          By contrast, Adam Rust, director of financial services at the Consumer Federation of America, said Chase's
          policy would help borrowers. ''I applaud Chase for the decision because it will protect consumers from
          becoming overextended,'' he said.                                       
          Here are some questions and answers about pay later loans:              
                                                                                  
          Will other credit card companies change their policies?                 
          Policies at other big card issuers vary. Bank of America allows its customers to use its credit cards to pay for
          pay later loans, said a spokesman, Don Vecchiarello. American Express said its cards currently could be
          used with a ''limited number'' of buy now, pay later providers.         
          Do other credit card companies offer their own version of pay later loans?
                                                                                  
          Some do. Citi and American Express both offer options for credit card customers to pay for certain purchases
          over time, in smaller installment payments.                             
          What is the best way to use pay later loans safely?                     
                                                                                  
          Consumer advocates recommend limiting the number of pay later loans you have at one time and arranging
          for automatic payments from a bank account or debit card to avoid missing one and possibly getting a late
          fee.                                                                    
          This article appeared in print on page B5.                              
          Document NYTF000020240727ek7r0003s                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---OneEquityRaises$1.75BillionforLatestFund                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- One Equity Raises $1.75 Billion for Latest Fund            
          By Chris Cumming                                                        
          372 words                                                               
          27 July 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          One Equity Partners has raised $1.75 billion for its latest fund so far, according to a person familiar with the
          matter, as the New York private-equity firm transitions to new leadership.
          The vehicle, One Equity Partners IX, held a first close in recent weeks following about three months of active
          fundraising, and has a $2.75 billion target, the person said.           
          A spokesman for the firm declined to comment.                           
          If One Equity Partners reaches the new vehicle's target, it will match the total raised for its eighth main fund,
          which closed a little over two years ago. The firm also closed a $1 billion continuation fund last year to
          support two European portfolio companies.                               
                                                                                  
          The new flagship fund is being raised with the assistance of placement agent Asante Capital Group,
          according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.               
          Private-equity fundraising has been difficult for more than two years, as investors have pulled back new
          commitments in the face of rising interest rates. In the first six months of the year, U.S. private-equity
          managers raised $155 billion, a slower pace than 2023, according to research provider PitchBook Data.
          One Equity Partners traces its roots to banking giant JPMorgan Chase's buyout business, from which it spun
          out in 2015. The firm has made more than 300 deals since it was set up in 2001, and typically invests $30
          million to $150 million in North American and Western European businesses in the industrials, healthcare and
          technology sectors, its website says.                                   
          Firm founder and longtime President Dick Cashin passed the torch earlier this year to Greg Belinfanti, who
          became president while Cashin remains as chairman. Belinfanti, who joined the firm in 2006, has been a
          member of its investment, operating and valuation committees since the 2015 spinout and sits on the boards
          of many of its portfolio companies.                                     
          One Equity Partners has had other turnover in its executive ranks, as former Senior Managing Director Chip
          Schorr and Operating Partner Todd Bradley this year launched a new firm, Niobrara Capital Partners, with
          former U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, WSJ Pro Private Equity reported in June.
          Document J000000020240727ek7r0001f                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WallStreetSaysByeToItsBiggestBear                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wall Street Says Bye To Its Biggest Bear                                
          By Jack Pitcher                                                         
          837 words                                                               
          5 July 2024                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Marko Kolanovic found himself in the loneliest place on Wall Street.    
          A robust stock-market rally that started early in 2023 caught many investors by surprise. But as other
          big-bank analysts relented one by one, adjusting their forecasts higher, Kolanovic, JPMorgan Chase's top
          market strategist, doubled down on his bearish outlook. Stocks kept rallying, with major indexes hitting new
          highs again this week.                                                  
          On Wednesday, the man dubbed "Gandalf" and "Half-Man, Half-God" by the financial press over the years for
          his prowess at predicting market moves, was out of a job at JPMorgan.   
          Kolanovic called for a recession that has yet to materialize, and largely missed the artificial-intelligence boom
          that has propelled technology stocks for the past 18 months.            
          JPMorgan's current research view is that the S&P 500 will tank 24% by year-end. Kolanovic warned in one of
          his final reports, out last week, of a "clear disconnect" between stock valuations and the economy,
          diminishing liquidity, and narrow leadership that is masking weakness.  
                                                                                  
          His departure highlights the perils of being a stock-market bear -- never a popular position in an industry
          whose business is selling investments to its customers -- during a roaring bull market. If you are telling clients
          that markets will fall and they rise instead, your clients lose money and you and your firm risk losing face.
          "It's not really a matter of being right or wrong," said Richard Bernstein, who was chief investment strategist at
          Merrill Lynch before starting his own investment firm in 2009. "It's more that the product people think a bear
          hurts business and a natural conflict brews."                           
          Kolanovic, a 48-year-old native of Croatia, told Bloomberg News he earned a degree in classical music
          before coming to the U.S. to study at New York University. He got a Ph.D. in theoretical high-energy physics
          and started a Wall Street career in the early 2000s, joining JPMorgan when it acquired Bear Stearns in the
          midst of the 2008-09 financial crisis.                                  
          Kolanovic rose through the ranks and attracted widespread attention as a derivatives strategist in 2015, when
          he made a series of highly accurate short-term calls on the direction of the S&P 500 based on how he
          expected quantitative funds to react to increasing volatility.          
          Then, during the peak of Covid-19-related market panic in March 2020, he made a bold and ultimately correct
          call that stocks would quickly bounce back to record highs. Kolanovic was inducted into the Institutional
          Investor Hall of Fame in 2020 after numerous years as the publication's top-ranked analyst.
          But over the past three years, the JPMorgan strategist made a series of untimely calls. He recommended
          clients take an overweight position in stocks during the market selloff of 2022. Then he advised them to cut
          exposure in early 2023, just as stocks began to rebound sharply.        
          "Marko was excellent when it came to understanding how the equity derivatives market can occasionally be
          the tail that wags the dog. He made some great calls," said Andy Constan, chief executive of Damped Spring
          Advisors, a consulting firm for macro hedge funds. "Then he was promoted to macro, and he struggled in
          generalizing to broad markets. Why he made so many aggressive calls over the last few years is beyond me."
          If the first rule of forecasting markets is to be right, the second rule might be: Don't be the only one who's
          wrong. The S&P 500's 45% rally since the start of last year caught most of Wall Street by surprise, but the
          naysayers slowly capitulated.                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Kolanovic has a history of going against the grain, however. In a 2018 interview, he told Bloomberg: "I do
          tend to be a more contrarian person who looks at things that people aren't looking at right now . . . The bad is
          that you may be sometimes looking too far out. 'Too early' sometimes also means 'wrong' in finance."
          Kolanovic isn't the first to fall into this trap. Charles Clough, a predecessor of Bernstein's as Merrill Lynch
          stock guru, left the firm near the height of the dot-com bubble after turning bearish on stocks just as the
          late-1990s rally accelerated.                                           
          Morgan Stanley's Mike Wilson, long one of Wall Street's most prominent bears, dropped his bet against the
          S&P 500 in May, leaving Kolanovic and JPMorgan as an outlier.           
          Wilson might have paid for his stance, too. Morgan Stanley sent an internal memo in February announcing
          that he was leaving his post as chair of the bank's Global Investment Committee.
                                                                                  
          When the market party is raging and there is money to be made, it might be that few want to hear from a
          doubter.                                                                
          "If you think about the current speculative environment when investors are max bullish, a subdued view might
          not jibe within a sell-side firm," said Bernstein, the former analyst.  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240705ek750001k                                      
          