Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Citigroup Inc. while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
citigroup_inc_2022_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Is Pressed To Fix Risk Managing ............................................................................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupIsPressedToFixRiskManaging                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Is Pressed To Fix Risk Managing                               
          By David Benoit                                                         
          606 words                                                               
          15 September 2022                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Regulators are frustrated with the progress Citigroup Inc. has made in the two years since they reprimanded
          the bank for problems with the systems it has in place to prevent costly mistakes, according to people familiar
          with the matter.                                                        
          Federal Reserve officials have repeatedly grilled Chief Executive Jane Fraser about the bank's plans to fix its
          risk-management system, demanding to see more progress, the people said. In a meeting this summer,
          officials from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency warned the bank's board that there could be
          consequences for not getting a handle on the situation, they said. The bank is due to submit a new plan
          Thursday that its executives hope will ease regulators' concerns, the people said. The plan includes a series
          of landmarks Fed and OCC officials can use to judge the bank's progress, they added, and is more
          specifically tied to the problems identified by regulators.             
          A regulatory response to the detailed submission isn't likely for several months. Regulators have the power to
          order the bank to replace managers or directors, among other things.    
          "We have taken decisive actions to simplify our firm and we will continue to act with urgency to modernize the
          bank for the digital age and strengthen our risk and control environment," a Citigroup spokeswoman said.
          "We are completely committed to the sustainability of this effort and to executing at the level expected of us."
          The Fed and OCC fined the bank $400 million in October 2020, citing "significant ongoing deficiencies" in its
          risk-management systems. In a series of consent orders, they demanded Citigroup make a lengthy list of
          improvements to its web of technology and procedures designed to detect problematic transactions, risky
          trades and anything else that could harm the bank.                      
          The reprimand hastened the departure of former CEO Michael Corbat and vaulted Ms. Fraser into the top job
          at the nation's third-largest bank. She has made fixing the risk-management problems her priority, calling it a
          long-overdue transformation. Ms. Fraser, however, warned that it would take several years and cost billions
          of dollars.                                                             
          The bank has added 30,000 employees to teams involved in fixing the problems over the past two years, Ms.
          Fraser told staff in a recent memo. That figure includes existing employees who moved into new roles. The
          bank has more than 230,000 employees worldwide.                         
          "We each must take greater responsibility for preventing errors and escalating issues or challenges
          immediately when they do occur. We have to remediate our existing issues on time and effectively," she
          wrote. "This is our top priority -- as ultimately our clients and customers, our investors and our regulators
          need our bank to operate safely, soundly and excellent."                
          The bank is also shedding its consumer-banking operations in more than a dozen countries, part of Ms.
          Fraser's attempt to simplify the bank.                                  
          The CEO transition and the hiring surge are part of the reason the progress has been slow so far, some of
          the people said.                                                        
          One issue is the infrastructure underpinning Citigroup's broader risk systems, a legacy of deals in the 1990s
          that transformed the bank into a financial supermarket. Citigroup never integrated many of the operations,
          leading to a hodgepodge of data systems and customer identification codes throughout the bank. Regulators
          believed the system was vulnerable to mistakes.                         
          In 2020, Citigroup accidentally sent $900 million to the creditors of cosmetics company Revlon Inc., which
          regulators had viewed as evidence of such weakness. The bank recently won a court appeal to get the
          money back.                                                             
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220915ei9f0001q                                      
```