Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

Forward-Looking Statements

Overview

Critical Accounting Policies / Estimates

Statement of Operations Analysis

Net Interest Income

Provision for Credit Losses

Non-Interest Income

Operating Expenses

Income Taxes

Fourth Quarter Results

Reportable Segment Results

Statement of Financial Condition Analysis

Assets

Liabilities

Stockholders’ Equity

Regulatory Capital

Risk Management

Market / Interest Rate Risk

Liquidity

Enterprise Risk Management

Adoption of New Accounting Standards and Issued but Not Yet Effective Accounting Standards

Statistical Summaries

Statements of Financial Condition

Statements of Operations

Average Balance Sheet and Summary of Net Interest Income

2

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

3

4

8

13

13

15

15

16

17

17

17

19

19

20

21

21

23

23

28

44

45

46

47

48

Inc.’s

limitation,

statements about Popular

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The information included in this report contains certain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including,
without
(the
“Corporation,” “Popular,” “we,” “us,” “our”) business, financial
condition, results of operations, plans, objectives and future
performance. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance, are based on management’s current expectations
and, by their nature, involve risks, uncertainties, estimates and
assumptions. Potential factors, some of which are beyond the
Corporation’s control, could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such
forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include
limitation the effect of competitive and economic
without
factors, and our reaction to those factors, the adequacy of the
allowance for loan losses, delinquency trends, market risk and
the impact of interest rate changes, capital markets conditions,
capital adequacy and liquidity, and the effect of legal and
regulatory proceedings and new accounting standards on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. All
statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in
nature are forward-looking, and the words “anticipate,”
“believe,” “continues,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “project”
and similar expressions and future or conditional verbs such as
“will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or
similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-
looking statements.

Various factors, some of which are beyond Popular’s control,
could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not
limited to, the rate of growth or decline in the economy and
employment levels, as well as general business and economic
conditions in the geographic areas we serve and, in particular,
in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the “Commonwealth” or
“Puerto Rico”), where a significant portion of our business is
concentrated; the impact of the current fiscal and economic
challenges of Puerto Rico and the measures taken and to be
taken by the Puerto Rico Government and the Federally-
appointed oversight board on the economy, our customers and
our business; the impact of the pending debt restructuring
proceedings under Title III of
the Puerto Rico Oversight,
Management and Economic Stability Act (“PROMESA”) and of
other actions taken or to be taken to address Puerto Rico’s fiscal
challenges on the value of our portfolio of Puerto Rico
government securities and loans to governmental entities and of
our commercial, mortgage and consumer loan portfolios where
private borrowers could be directly affected by governmental
action; the amount of Puerto Rico public sector deposits held at
the Corporation, whose future balances are uncertain and
difficult to predict and may be impacted by factors such as the
amount of Federal funds received by the P.R. Government in

the Transaction and the

connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and the rate of
expenditure of such funds, as well as the timeline and
implementation of the Plan of Adjustment for the Puerto Rico
debt restructuring under Title III of PROMESA; risks related to
Popular’s planned acquisition of certain information technology
and related assets currently used by EVERTEC, Inc. to service
certain of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico’s key channels, as well
as the planned entry into amended and restated commercial
agreements and the sale or conversion into non-voting of
Popular’s ownership stake in Evertec (the “Transaction”),
including: the length of time necessary to consummate the
Transaction; the ability to satisfy the conditions to the closing
thereof; the receipt of any regulatory approvals necessary to
effect
contemplated return to
shareholders of net gains resulting from a sale of EVERTEC,
Inc. shares; the ability to successfully transition and integrate
the assets acquired as part of the Transaction, as well as related
operations, employees and third party contractors; unexpected
costs, including, without limitation, costs due to exposure to
any unrecorded liabilities or issues not identified during due
diligence investigation of the Transaction or that are not subject
to indemnification or reimbursement by EVERTEC, Inc.; risks
that Popular may be affected by operational and other risks
arising from the acquisition of the acquired assets, including
the transition and integration thereof, or by adverse effects on
relationships with customers, employees and service providers;
and business and other risks arising from the extension of
Popular’s current commercial agreements with EVERTEC, Inc.,
as well as the sale or conversion of EVERTEC, Inc. shares
owned by Popular; the scope and duration of the COVID-19
pandemic (including the appearance of new strains of the
virus), actions taken by governmental authorities in response to
the pandemic, and the direct and indirect
the
pandemic on us, our customers, service providers and third
parties; changes in interest rates and market liquidity, which
may reduce interest margins, impact funding sources and affect
our ability to originate and distribute financial products in the
primary and secondary markets;
the fiscal and monetary
policies of the federal government and its agencies; changes in
including
federal bank regulatory and supervisory policies,
required levels of capital and the impact of proposed capital
standards on our capital ratios; additional Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)
regulatory
approvals that may be necessary to undertake certain actions or
consummate strategic transactions such as acquisitions and
dispositions; unforeseen or catastrophic events,
including
extreme weather events, other natural disasters, man-made
the emergence of
disasters, acts of violence or war, or
pandemics epidemics and other health-related crises, which
could cause a disruption in our operations or other adverse
consequences
the relative strength or
weakness of the consumer and commercial credit sectors and of
the real estate markets in Puerto Rico and the other markets in

for our business;

assessments;

impact of

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

3

security

which borrowers are located; the performance of the stock and
bond markets; competition in the financial services industry;
possible legislative, tax or regulatory changes; and a failure in
or breach of our operational or
systems or
infrastructure or those of EVERTEC, Inc., our provider of core
financial transaction processing and information technology
services, or of other third parties providing services to us,
including as a result of cyberattacks, e-fraud, denial-of-services
and computer intrusion, that might result in loss or breach of
customer data, disruption of services, reputational damage or
additional costs to Popular. Other possible events or factors that
could cause results or performance to differ materially from
those expressed in these forward-looking statements include
the following: negative economic conditions that adversely
affect housing prices, the job market, consumer confidence and
spending habits which may affect, among other things, the level
of non-performing assets, charge-offs and provision expense;
changes in market rates and prices which may adversely impact
the value of financial assets and liabilities; potential judgments,
claims, damages, penalties,
fines, enforcement actions and
reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation
and regulatory or government
investigations or actions,
including as a result of our participation in and execution of
government programs related to the COVID-19 pandemic;
changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; our
ability to grow our core businesses; decisions to downsize, sell
or close units or otherwise change our business mix; and
management’s ability to identify and manage these and other
risks. Moreover,
and regulatory
proceedings, as discussed in “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings”
of
ended
December 31, 2021, is inherently uncertain and depends on
judicial interpretations of law and the findings of regulators,
judges and/or juries. The description of
the Corporation’s
business and risk factors contained in Part I, Items 1 and 1A of
the Corporation’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2021 discusses additional information about the business of the
Corporation and the material risk factors and uncertainties to
which the Corporation is subject that, in addition to the other
information in this report, readers should consider.

the Corporation’s Form 10-K for

the outcome of

legal

year

the

All forward-looking statements included in this report are
based upon information available to the Corporation as of the
date of this report, and other than as required by law, including
the requirements of applicable securities laws, we assume no
obligation to update or
revise any such forward-looking
statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or
circumstances after the date of such statements.

OVERVIEW
The Corporation is a diversified, publicly-owned financial
holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The
Corporation has operations in Puerto Rico, the United States

4

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

(“U.S.”) mainland, and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands. In
Puerto Rico, the Corporation provides retail, mortgage, and
commercial banking services through its principal banking
subsidiary, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico (“BPPR”), as well as
investment banking, broker-dealer, auto and equipment leasing
and financing, and insurance services through specialized
subsidiaries. In the U.S. mainland, the Corporation provides
retail, mortgage and commercial banking services through its
New York-chartered banking subsidiary, Popular Bank (“PB” or
“Popular U.S.”) which has branches located in New York, New
Jersey and Florida. Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements presents
the Corporation’s
information about
business segments.

The Corporation has several investments which it accounts
for under the equity method. These include the 16.19% interest
in EVERTEC, a 15.84% interest in Centro Financiero BHD
Leon, S.A. (“BHD Leon”), among other investments in limited
partnerships which mainly hold loans
and investment
securities. EVERTEC provides transaction processing services
throughout the Caribbean and Latin America, and also provides
to the Corporation core banking and transaction processing and
other services. BHD León is a diversified financial services
institution operating in the Dominican Republic. For the year
ended December
the Corporation recorded
approximately $58.3 million in earnings from these investments
on an aggregate basis. The carrying amounts of
these
investments as of December 31, 2021 were $299.0 million.
Refer to Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

31, 2021,

equipment

SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
Acquisition of K2 Capital Group LLC
On October 15, 2021, Popular Equipment Finance LLC
(“PEF”), a newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiary of PB,
completed the acquisition of certain assets and the assumption
of certain liabilities of Minnesota-based K2 Capital Group LLC’s
(the
(“K2”)
leasing
“Acquired Business”). PEF made a payment
to K2 of
approximately $157 million in cash, representing a premium of
$49 million over the book value of K2’s net assets, which has
been recorded as goodwill. An additional
approximate
$29 million in earnout payments could be payable to K2 over
the next three years, contingent upon the achievement of
certain agreed-upon financial targets during such period.

and financing business

lease products,

Specializing in the healthcare industry,

the Acquired
Business provides a variety of
including
operating and finance leases, and also offers private label
vendor finance programs to equipment manufacturers and
healthcare organizations. The acquisition provides PB with a
national equipment
leasing platform that complements its
existing healthcare lending business.

As part of the transaction, PEF acquired approximately
$115 million in net assets that consisted mainly of commercial

finance leases. The transaction was accounted for as a business
combination. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

Capital Actions
2021 Increase in Common Stock Dividend
On May 6, 2021, the Corporation’s Board of Directors approved
a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45 per share, an increase from
the previous $0.40 per share quarterly dividend, on its
outstanding
ended
December 31, 2021, the Corporation declared cash dividend of
$1.75 per common share outstanding ($142.3 million in the
aggregate).

stock. During

common

year

the

Accelerated Share Repurchase
On September 9, 2021,
the Corporation completed its
previously announced accelerated share repurchase program for
the repurchase of an aggregate $350 million of Popular’s
the accelerated share
common stock. Under the terms of
repurchase agreement (the “ASR Agreement”), on May 4, 2021,
the Corporation made an initial payment of $350 million and
received an initial delivery of 3,785,831 shares of Popular’s
Common Stock (the “Initial Shares”). The transaction was
accounted for as a treasury stock transaction. As a result of the
receipt of the Initial Shares, the Corporation recognized in
shareholders’ equity approximately $280 million in treasury
stock and $70 million as a reduction in capital surplus. Upon
the final settlement of the ASR Agreement, the Corporation
received an additional 828,965 shares of Popular’s common
stock and recognized $61 million as treasury stock with a
corresponding increase in its capital surplus account. The
Corporation repurchased a total of 4,614,796 shares at an
average purchase price of $75.84 under the ASR Agreement.

6.70% Cumulative Monthly

Redemption of Trust Preferred Securities
the Corporation redeemed all
On November 1, 2021,
outstanding
Income Trust
Preferred Securities (the “Trust Preferred Securities”) issued by
the Popular Capital Trust I (the “Trust”) (liquidation amount of
$25 per
security and amounting to $186,663,800 (or
$181,063,250 after excluding the Corporation’s participation in
the Trust of $5,600,550) in the aggregate). The redemption
price for the Trust Preferred Securities was equal to $25 per
security plus accrued and unpaid distributions up to and
excluding the redemption date in the amount of $0.139583 per
security, for a total payment per security in the amount of
$25.139583. Upon redemption, Popular delisted the Trust
Preferred Securities (NASDAQ: BPOPN) from the Nasdaq
Global Select Market.

2022 Capital Plan
On January 12, 2022 the Corporation announced the following
capital actions:

• an increase in the Corporation’s quarterly common stock
dividend from $0.45 per share to $0.55 per share,
commencing with the dividend payable in the second
approval by the
to the
quarter of 2022,
Corporation’s Board of Directors; and

subject

• common stock repurchases of up to $500 million during

2022.

The Corporation’s planned common stock repurchases may
be executed in the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions. The timing and exact amount of such repurchases
will be subject to various factors, including market conditions
financial
capital
and
performance.

the Corporation’s

position

and

Refer to Table 1 for selected financial data for the past three

years.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

5

Table 1 - Selected Financial Data

(Dollars in thousands, except per common share data)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Interest income
Interest expense

Net interest income

Provision for credit losses (benefit)
Non-interest income
Operating expenses
Income tax expense

Net income

Net income applicable to common stock

PER COMMON SHARE DATA

Net income per common share - basic
Net income per common share - diluted
Dividends declared
Common equity per share
Market value per common share
Outstanding shares:
Average - basic
Average - assuming dilution
End of period
AVERAGE BALANCES

Net loans [1]
Earning assets
Total assets
Deposits
Borrowings
Total stockholders’ equity
PERIOD END BALANCE

Net loans [1]
Allowance for credit losses - loans portfolio
Earning assets
Total assets
Deposits
Borrowings
Total stockholders’ equity

SELECTED RATIOS

Net interest margin (non-taxable equivalent basis)
Net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) -Non-GAAP
Return on assets
Return on common equity
Tier I capital
Total capital

[1]

Includes loans held-for-sale.

Years ended December 31,
2020

2019

2021

$ 2,122,637
165,047

$ 2,091,551
234,938

$ 2,260,793
369,099

1,957,590

1,856,613

1,891,694

(193,464)
642,128
1,549,275
309,018

934,889

933,477

11.49
11.46
1.75
74.48
82.04

$

$

$

292,536
512,312
1,457,829
111,938

506,622

504,864

5.88
5.87
1.60
71.30
56.32

$

$

$

165,779
569,883
1,477,482
147,181

671,135

667,412

6.89
6.88
1.20
62.42
58.75

$

$

$

81,263,027
81,420,154
79,851,169

85,882,371
85,975,259
84,244,235

96,848,835
96,997,800
95,589,629

$29,074,036
68,088,675
71,168,650
63,102,916
1,255,495
5,777,652

$29,299,725
695,366
72,103,862
75,097,899
67,005,088
1,155,166
5,969,397

$28,384,981
56,404,607
59,583,455
51,585,779
1,321,772
5,419,938

$29,484,651
896,250
62,989,715
65,926,000
56,866,340
1,346,284
6,028,687

$26,806,368
44,944,793
50,341,827
42,218,796
1,404,459
5,713,517

$27,466,076
477,708
48,674,705
52,115,324
43,758,606
1,294,986
6,016,779

2.88%
3.19
1.31
16.22
17.49
19.35

3.29%
3.62
0.85
9.36
16.33
18.81

4.03%
4.43
1.33
11.78
17.76
20.31

Non-GAAP financial measures
Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis
Net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis, is presented
with its different components on Table 3 for the year ended
December 31, 2021 as compared with the same period in 2020,
segregated by major categories of interest earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities.

The interest earning assets include investment securities and
loans that are exempt from income tax, principally in Puerto
Rico. The main sources of tax-exempt interest income are
certain investments in obligations of the U.S. Government, its
agencies and sponsored entities, and certain obligations of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its agencies and assets held
by the Corporation’s international banking entities. To facilitate

6

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

the comparison of all interest related to these assets, the interest
income has been converted to a taxable equivalent basis, using
the applicable statutory income tax rates for each period. The
taxable equivalent computation considers the interest expense
and other related expense disallowances required by the Puerto
Rico tax law. Under Puerto Rico tax law, the exempt interest
can be deducted up to the amount of taxable income. Net
interest income on a taxable equivalent basis is a non-GAAP
financial measure. Management believes that this presentation
provides meaningful
the
comparison of revenues arising from taxable and exempt
sources.

information since

facilitates

it

Financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2021
The Corporation’s net income for the year ended December 31,
2021 amounted to $934.9 million, compared to a net income of
$506.6 million for 2020.
The discussion that

follows provides highlights of
for

the
Corporation’s
ended
December 31, 2021 compared to the results of operations of
2020. It also provides some highlights with respect to the
Corporation’s financial condition, credit quality, capital and
liquidity. Table 2 presents a three-year summary of
the
components of net income as a percentage of average total
assets.

results of operations

the year

Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Corporation may
not be comparable to similarly named Non-GAAP financial
measures used by other companies.

Table 2 - Components of Net Income as a Percentage of Average Total Assets

Net interest income
Provision for credit losses (benefit)
Mortgage banking activities
Net gain and valuation adjustments on investment securities
Other non-interest income

Total net interest income and non-interest income, net of provision for credit losses
Operating expenses

Income before income tax
Income tax expense

Net income

2021

2020

2019

2.75% 3.12% 3.76%
(0.49)
0.27
0.02
0.07
0.01
–
0.83
0.83

(0.33)
0.06
–
1.07

3.92
(2.18)

3.49
(2.45)

4.56
(2.94)

1.74
0.43

1.04
0.19

1.62
0.29

1.31% 0.85% 1.33%

income from commercial

Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2021
was $2.0 billion, an increase of $101.0 million when compared
to 2020. The increase in net interest income was mainly driven
by higher interest
loans due to
income from loans under the Small Business Administration
(“SBA”) Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), and higher
income from investment securities. In addition, lower interest
expense on deposits, despite the higher volume, contributed to
the higher net interest income. The net interest margin for the
year ended December 31, 2021 was 2.88% compared to 3.29%
for the same period in 2020 and was impacted by prolonged
low interest rates as well as the change in the earning assets
composition. On a taxable equivalent basis, net interest margin
was 3.19% in 2021, compared to 3.62% in 2020. Refer to the
Net Interest Income section of
this MD&A for additional
information.

The Corporation’s total provision for credit losses reflected a
benefit of $193.5 million for the year ended December 31,
2021, compared to a provision expense of $292.5 million for
2020. The benefit for the year 2021 was due to improvements
in credit quality and the macroeconomic outlook. The

Corporation continued to exhibit strong credit quality trends
and low credit costs with low levels of net charge-offs and lower
non-performing
totaled
loans. Non-performing
$633 million at December 31, 2021, reflecting a decrease of
$191 million when compared to December 31, 2020. Refer to
the Provision for Credit Losses and Credit Risk sections of this
MD&A for information on the allowance for credit losses,
non-performing assets,
restructurings, net
charge-offs and credit quality metrics.

troubled debt

assets

Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2021
amounted to $642.1 million, an increase of $129.8 million,
when compared with 2020, mostly due to: higher service fees
and service charges on deposit accounts due to economic
disruptions related to the pandemic, the waiver of service
charges and late fees during 2020, higher
income from
mortgage banking activities and higher other operating income
principally due to higher net earnings from the combined
portfolio of investments under the equity method. Refer to the
Non-Interest Income section of
this MD&A for additional
information on the major variances of the different categories of
non-interest income.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

7

Total operating expenses amounted to $1.5 billion for the
year 2021, reflecting an increase of $91.4 million, when
compared to the same period in 2020, mainly due to higher
personnel costs. Refer to the Operating Expenses section of this
MD&A for additional information.

Income tax expense amounted to $309.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2021, compared with an income tax
expense of $111.9 million for the previous year. The increase in
income tax expense for the year is mainly due to a higher
pre-tax income. Refer to the Income Taxes section in this
MD&A and Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements for
additional information on income taxes.

At December 31, 2021, the Corporation’s total assets were
$75.1 billion, compared with $65.9 billion at December 31,
2020. The increase of $9.2 billion is mainly driven by higher
money market investments and debt securities available-for-sale
due to the additional funds available to invest resulting from
the increase in deposits across various sectors, partially offset
by paydowns of agency mortgage-backed securities. Refer to the
Statement of Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for
additional information.

Deposits amounted to $67.0 billion at December 31, 2021,
compared with $56.9 billion at December 31, 2020. Table 7
presents a breakdown of deposits by major categories. The
increase in deposits was mainly due to higher Puerto Rico
public sector deposits and higher balances in retail and
commercial demand deposits accounts. The Corporation’s
borrowings remained flat at $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021.
Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
detailed information on the Corporation’s borrowings.

Refer to Table 6 in the Statement of Financial Condition
Analysis section of this MD&A for the percentage allocation of
the composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets.

securities

available-for-sale

Stockholders’ equity remained flat at $6.0 billion at
December 31, 2021, compared with December 31, 2020. The
net activity for the year was mainly due to net income of
$934.9 million for the year 2021 offset by unrealized losses on
return
debt
transactions,
repurchase
transaction completed during 2021. The Corporation and its
banking subsidiaries
to be well-capitalized at
December 31, 2021. The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at
December 31, 2021 was 17.42%, compared to 16.26% at
December 31, 2020.

an accelerated share

including

continue

and by

capital

For

further discussion of operating results,
financial
condition and business risks refer to the narrative and tables
included herein.

The shares of the Corporation’s common stock are traded on

the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol BPOP.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES / ESTIMATES
The accounting and reporting policies
Corporation and its

followed by the
subsidiaries conform with generally

8

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

accepted accounting principles in the United States of America
(“GAAP”) and general practices within the financial services
industry. The Corporation’s significant accounting policies are
described in detail in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and should be read in conjunction with this section.
Critical accounting policies require management to make
estimates and assumptions, which involve significant judgment
about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and
that involve a high degree of subjectivity. These estimates are
made under facts and circumstances at a point in time and
changes in those facts and circumstances could produce actual
results that differ from those estimates. The following MD&A
section is a summary of what management considers the
Corporation’s critical accounting policies and estimates.

its

debt

debt

basis,

trading

such as

securities,

Fair Value Measurement of Financial Instruments
The Corporation currently measures at fair value on a recurring
basis
securities
available-for-sale, certain equity securities, derivatives and
mortgage servicing rights. Occasionally, the Corporation may
fair value other assets on a
be required to record at
nonrecurring
loans
held-in-portfolio that are collateral dependent and certain other
assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically
result
lower of cost or fair value
accounting or write-downs of individual assets.
assets

and liabilities
measured at fair value under the three-level hierarchy. The level
within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the
valuation methodology used for fair value measurement are
observable.

The Corporation categorizes

from the application of

loans held-for-sale,

its

The Corporation requires the use of observable inputs when
available, in order to minimize the use of unobservable inputs
to determine fair value. The inputs or methodologies used for
valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk
associated with investing in those securities. The amount of
judgment involved in estimating the fair value of a financial
instrument depends upon the availability of quoted market
prices or observable market parameters. In addition, it may be
affected by other factors such as the type of instrument, the
liquidity of the market for the instrument, transparency around
the inputs
the contractual
characteristics of the instrument.

to the valuation, as well as

Broker quotes used for fair value measurements inherently
reflect any lack of liquidity in the market since they represent
an exit price from the perspective of the market participants.
Financial assets that were fair valued using broker quotes
amounted to $6 million at December 31, 2021, of which
$1 million were Level 3 assets and $5 million were Level 2
assets. Level 3 assets consisted principally of tax-exempt GNMA
mortgage-backed securities. Fair value for these securities was
based on an internally-prepared matrix derived from local
broker quotes. The main input used in the matrix pricing was

non-binding local broker quotes obtained from limited trade
activity. Therefore, these securities were classified as Level 3.

Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses
Interest on loans is accrued and recorded as interest income
based upon the principal amount outstanding.

Trading Debt Securities and Debt Securities
Available-for-Sale
The majority of the values for trading debt securities and debt
securities available-for-sale are obtained from third-party
pricing services and are validated with alternate pricing sources
when available. Securities not priced by a secondary pricing
source are documented and validated internally according to
their significance to the Corporation’s financial statements.
Management has established materiality thresholds according to
the investment class to monitor and investigate material
deviations in prices obtained from the primary pricing service
provider and the secondary pricing source used as support for
the valuation results. During the year ended December 31,
2021, the Corporation did not adjust any prices obtained from
pricing service providers or broker dealers.

including the relative liquidity of

Inputs are evaluated to ascertain that they consider current
market conditions,
the
market. When a market quote for a specific security is not
available, the pricing service provider generally uses observable
data to derive an exit price for the instrument, such as
benchmark yield curves and trade data for similar products. To
the extent trading data is not available, the pricing service
provider relies on specific information including dialogue with
brokers, buy side clients, credit ratings, spreads to established
benchmarks and transactions on similar securities, to draw
correlations based on the characteristics of
the evaluated
instrument. If
for any reason the pricing service provider
cannot observe data required to feed its model, it discontinues
pricing the instrument. During the year ended December 31,
2021, none of the Corporation’s debt securities were subject to
pricing discontinuance by the pricing service providers. The
pricing methodology and approach of our primary pricing
service providers is concluded to be consistent with the fair
value measurement guidance.

its
Furthermore, management assesses the fair value of
portfolio of investment securities at least on a quarterly basis.
Securities are classified in the fair value hierarchy according to
product type, characteristics and market liquidity. At the end of
each period, management assesses the valuation hierarchy for
each asset or liability measured. The fair value measurement
analysis performed by the Corporation includes validation
procedures
pricing
review of market
methodology, assumption and level hierarchy changes, and
evaluation of distressed transactions.

changes,

and

Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for a description of the Corporation’s valuation methodologies
used for the assets and liabilities measured at fair value.

Non-accrual loans are those loans on which the accrual of
interest is discontinued. When a loan is placed on non-accrual
status, all previously accrued and unpaid interest is charged
against interest income and the loan is accounted for either on a
cash-basis method or on the cost-recovery method. Loans
designated as non-accruing are returned to accrual status when
the Corporation expects
remaining
contractual principal and interest. The determination as to the
ultimate collectability of
the loan’s balance may involve
management’s judgment in the evaluation of the borrower’s
financial condition and prospects for repayment.

repayment

the

of

Refer to the MD&A section titled Credit Risk, particularly
the Non-performing
a detailed
description of the Corporation’s non-accruing and charge-off
policies by major loan categories.

sub-section,

assets

for

in accordance with Accounting

One of the most critical and complex accounting estimates is
associated with the determination of the allowance for credit
losses (“ACL”). The Corporation establishes an ACL for its loan
portfolio based on its estimate of credit
losses over the
remaining contractual term of the loans, adjusted for expected
prepayments,
Standards
Codification (“ASC”) Topic 326. An ACL is recognized for all
loans
since
including originated and purchased loans,
inception, with a corresponding charge to the provision for
credit losses, except for purchased credit deteriorated (“PCD”)
loans
a
methodology to establish the ACL which includes a reasonable
and supportable forecast period for estimating credit losses,
considering quantitative and qualitative factors as well as the
economic outlook. As part of this methodology, management
evaluates various macroeconomic scenarios provided by third
parties. At December 31, 2021, management applied probability
weights to the outcome of the selected scenarios.

explained below. The Corporation follows

as

is used when repayment

The Corporation has designated as collateral dependent
loans secured by collateral when foreclosure is probable or
when foreclosure is not probable but the practical expedient is
is
used. The practical expedient
expected to be provided substantially by the sale or operation of
the collateral and the borrower
is experiencing financial
difficulty. The ACL of collateral dependent loans is measured
based on the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. The
fair value of the collateral is based on appraisals, which may be
adjusted due to their age, and the type, location, and condition
of the property or area or general market conditions to reflect
the expected change in value between the effective date of the
appraisal and the measurement date. In addition, refer to the
Credit Risk section of this MD&A for detailed information on

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

9

the Corporation’s collateral value estimation for other real
estate.

that

A restructuring constitutes a TDR when the Corporation
separately concludes
the restructuring constitutes a
concession and the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties.
For information on the Corporation’s TDR policy, refer to Note
impact of
2. The
concessions through discounting modified contractual cash
flows, both principal and interest, at the loan’s original effective
rate. The impact of these concessions is combined with the
expected credit losses generated by the quantitative loss models
in order to arrive at the ACL.

established framework captures

the

Loans Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality
PCD loans are defined as those with evidence of a more-than-
insignificant deterioration in credit quality since origination.
PCD loans are initially recorded at its purchase price plus an
estimated ACL. Upon the acquisition of a PCD loan,
the
Corporation recognizes the estimate of the expected credit
losses over the remaining contractual term of each individual
loan as an ACL with a corresponding addition to the loan
purchase price. The amount of the purchased premium or
discount which is not related to credit risk is amortized over
the life of the loan through net interest income using the
effective interest method or a method that approximates the
effective interest method. Changes in expected credit losses are
recorded as an increase or decrease to the ACL with a
corresponding charge (reverse) to the provision for credit losses
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Upon transition
to the individual loan measurement, these loans follow the
same nonaccrual policies as non-PCD loans and are therefore
no longer excluded from non-performing status. Modifications
of PCD loans that meet the definition of a TDR subsequent to
the adoption of ASC Topic 326 are accounted and reported as
such following the same processes as non-PCD loans.

future

recognized based on the

Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities
tax consequences
are
attributable to temporary differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax basis, and attributable to operating loss and
tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the years
in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered
or paid. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when
the changes are enacted.

jurisdictions, including any reserve for potential examination
issues, and (ii) a deferred income tax that represents the
estimated impact of temporary differences between how the
Corporation recognizes assets and liabilities under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), and
how such assets and liabilities are recognized under the tax
code. Differences in the actual outcome of these future tax
consequences could impact the Corporation’s financial position
or its results of operations. In estimating taxes, management
assesses the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax
treatment of transactions taking into consideration statutory,
judicial and regulatory guidance.

A deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation
allowance if based on the weight of all available evidence, it is
more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50%) that some
portion or the entire deferred tax asset will not be realized. The
valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred
tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be
realized. The determination of whether a deferred tax asset is
realizable is based on weighting all available evidence,
including both positive and negative evidence. The realization
of deferred tax assets, including carryforwards and deductible
temporary differences, depends upon the existence of sufficient
taxable income of the same character during the carryback or
carryforward period. The realization of deferred tax assets
requires the consideration of all sources of taxable income
available to realize the deferred tax asset, including the future
reversal of existing temporary differences,
future taxable
reversing temporary differences and
income exclusive of
carryforwards,
and
taxable
tax-planning strategies.

in carryback years

income

Management evaluates the realization of the deferred tax
asset by taxing jurisdiction. The U.S. mainland operations are
evaluated as a whole since a consolidated income tax return is
filed; on the other hand, the deferred tax asset related to the
Puerto Rico operations is evaluated on an entity by entity basis,
since no consolidation is allowed in the income tax filing.
Accordingly,
three major
this evaluation is composed of
components: U.S. mainland operations, Puerto Rico banking
operations and Holding Company.

For the evaluation of the realization of the deferred tax asset

by taxing jurisdiction, refer to Note 35.

Under

the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code,

the
Corporation and its subsidiaries are treated as separate taxable
entities and are not entitled to file consolidated tax returns. The
Code provides a dividends-received deduction of 100% on
dividends received from “controlled” subsidiaries subject to
taxation in Puerto Rico and 85% on dividends received from
other taxable domestic corporations.

The calculation of periodic income taxes is complex and
requires the use of estimates and judgments. The Corporation
has recorded two accruals for income taxes: (i) the net
estimated amount currently due or to be received from taxing

Changes in the Corporation’s estimates can occur due to
changes in tax rates, new business strategies, newly enacted
issues with taxing authorities
guidance, and resolution of
regarding previously taken tax positions. Such changes could

10

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

affect the amount of accrued taxes. The Corporation has made
tax payments in accordance with estimated tax payments rules.
Any remaining payment will not have any significant impact on
liquidity and capital resources.

profitability. The

The valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment in
assessing the likely future tax consequences of events that have
been recognized in the financial statements or tax returns and
future
tax
consequences represents management’s best estimate of those
future events. Changes in management’s current estimates, due
to unanticipated events, could have a material impact on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

accounting

deferred

for

tax law,

In evaluating a tax position,

the position. The Corporation’s estimate of

The Corporation establishes tax liabilities or reduces tax
assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite its assessment
that its tax return positions are appropriate and supportable
under local
the Corporation believes it may not
succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if
challenged.
the Corporation
determines whether it is more-likely-than-not that the position
will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any
related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical
merits of
the
ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past
experiences, and judgments about potential actions by taxing
jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of
issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax
position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is
greater
than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. The Corporation evaluates these uncertain tax
positions each quarter and adjusts the related tax liabilities or
assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the
progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of
limitations. The Corporation believes
the estimates and
assumptions used to support its evaluation of uncertain tax
positions are reasonable.

tax rate, was

After consideration of the effect on U.S.

federal tax of
unrecognized U.S. state tax benefits,
the total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits, including U.S. and Puerto Rico that,
if recognized through earnings, would affect the Corporation’s
approximately $5.5 million at
effective
December 31, 2021 and $10.2 million at December 31, 2020.
Refer to Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information on this subject matter. The Corporation
anticipates a reduction in the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits within the next 12 months, which could amount to
approximately $1.4 million, including interest.

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or
decrease in the future for various reasons including adding
amounts for current tax year positions, expiration of open
income tax returns due to the statutes of limitation, changes in
management’s judgment about the level of uncertainty, status of
examinations, litigation and legislative activity and the addition
or elimination of uncertain tax positions. Although the

outcome of tax audits is uncertain, the Corporation believes
that adequate amounts of tax, interest and penalties have been
provided for any adjustments that are expected to result from
open years. From time to time, the Corporation is audited by
various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax
matters. Although management believes
its approach in
determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in
accordance with the accounting standards, it is possible that the
final tax authority will take a tax position that is different than
the tax position reflected in the Corporation’s income tax
provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted,
adjustments,
appropriately recorded in the
consolidated financial statement in the period determined. Such
differences could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s
income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the
reporting period in which such determination is made and,
consequently, on the Corporation’s results of operations,
financial position and / or cash flows for such period.

any,

are

if

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Corporation’s goodwill and other identifiable intangible
assets having an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment.
Intangibles with indefinite lives are evaluated for impairment at
least annually, and on a more frequent basis,
if events or
circumstances indicate impairment could have taken place.
Such events could include, among others, a significant adverse
change in the business climate, an adverse action by a regulator,
an unanticipated change in the competitive environment and a
decision to change the operations or dispose of a reporting unit.
Other identifiable intangible assets with a finite useful life are
evaluated periodically for impairment when events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable.
Goodwill

is recognized when the carrying
amount of any of the reporting units exceeds its fair value up to
the amount of the goodwill. The Corporation estimates the fair
value of each reporting unit, consistent with the requirements
of the fair value measurements accounting standard, generally
using a combination of methods,
including market price
multiples of comparable companies and transactions, as well as
discounted cash flow analyses. Subsequent reversal of goodwill
impairment losses is not permitted under applicable accounting
standards. No impairment was recognized by the Corporation
test as of July 31, 2021. For a detailed
from the annual
description of
impairment evaluation
performed by the Corporation during the third quarter of 2021,
refer to Note 15.

the annual goodwill

impairment

At December 31, 2021, goodwill amounted to $720 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation
recognized an impairment loss of $5.4 million associated with a
trademark. Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
provides the assignment of goodwill by reportable segment.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

11

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations
The Corporation provides pension and restoration benefit plans
for certain employees of various subsidiaries. The Corporation
also provides certain health care benefits for retired employees
of BPPR. The non-contributory defined pension and benefit
restoration plans (“the Pension Plans”) are frozen with regards
to all future benefit accruals.

recorded amounts,

The estimated benefit costs and obligations of the Pension
Plans and Postretirement Health Care Benefit Plan (“OPEB
Plan”) are impacted by the use of subjective assumptions,
including
which can materially affect
expected returns on plan assets, discount rates, termination
rates, retirement rates and health care trend rates. Management
applies judgment in the determination of these factors, which
normally undergo evaluation against current industry practice
and the actual experience of the Corporation. The Corporation
uses an independent actuarial
firm for assistance in the
determination of the Pension Plans and OPEB Plan costs and
obligations. Detailed information on the Plans and related
valuation assumptions are included in Note 30 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

31,

fair

value

assets

at December

The Corporation periodically reviews its assumption for the
long-term expected return on Pension Plans assets. The Pension
2021 was
Plans’
$860.5 million. The expected return on plan assets
is
determined by considering various factors, including a total
fund return estimate based on a weighted-average of estimated
returns for each asset class in each plan. Asset class returns are
estimated using current and projected economic and market
factors such as real rates of return, inflation, credit spreads,
equity risk premiums and excess return expectations.

As part of

the review,

the Corporation’s independent
consulting actuaries performed an analysis of expected returns
based on each plan’s expected asset allocation for the year 2022
using the Willis Towers Watson US Expected Return Estimator.
This analysis is reviewed by the Corporation and used as a tool
to develop expected rates of return, together with other data.
This forecast reflects the actuarial firm’s view of expected long-
term rates of return for each significant asset class or economic
indicator as of January 1, 2022; for example, 8.5% for large cap
stocks, 8.8% for small cap stocks, 8.9% for international stocks,
3.5% for long corporate bonds and 2.4% for long Treasury
bonds. A range of expected investment returns is developed,
and this range relies both on forecasts and on broad-market
historical benchmarks for expected returns, correlations, and
volatilities for each asset class.
As a consequence of

the Corporation
recent
decreased its expected return on plan assets for year 2022 to
4.3% and 5.4% for the Pension Plans. Expected rates of return
of 4.6% and 5.5% had been used for 2021 and 5.0% and 5.8%
had been used for 2020 for the Pension Plans. Since the
expected return assumption is on a long-term basis, it is not

reviews,

12

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

materially impacted by the yearly fluctuations (either positive
or negative) in the actual return on assets. The expected return
can be materially impacted by a change in the plan’s asset
allocation.

Net Periodic Benefit Cost (“pension expense”) for the
Pension Plans amounted to a net benefit of $3.8 million in
2021. The total pension expense included a benefit of
$38.7 million for the expected return on assets.

Pension expense is sensitive to changes in the expected
return on assets. For example, decreasing the expected rate of
return for 2021 from 4.3% to 4.05% would increase the
projected 2022 pension expense for the Banco Popular de
Puerto Rico Retirement Plan, the Corporation’s largest plan, by
approximately $2.0 million.

If the projected benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of
plan assets, the Corporation shall recognize a liability equal to
the unfunded projected benefit obligation and vice versa, if the
fair value of plan assets exceeds
the projected benefit
obligation, the Corporation recognizes an asset equal to the
overfunded projected benefit obligation. This asset or liability
may result in a taxable or deductible temporary difference and
its tax effect shall be recognized as an income tax expense or
benefit which shall be allocated to various components of the
financial statements, including other comprehensive income.
The determination of the fair value of pension plan obligations
involves judgment, and any changes in those estimates could
impact the Corporation’s Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition. Management believes that the fair value estimates of
the Pension Plans assets are reasonable given the valuation
methodologies used to measure the investments at fair value as
described in Note 28. Also, the compositions of the plan assets
are primarily in equity and debt securities, which have readily
determinable quoted market prices. The Corporation had
recorded a pension asset of $17.8 million and a pension liability
of $8.8 million at December 31, 2021.

The Corporation uses the spot rate yield curve from the
Willis Towers Watson RATE: Link (10/90) Model to discount
the expected projected cash flows of the plans. The equivalent
single weighted average discount rate ranged from 2.79% to
2.83% for the Pension Plans and 2.94% for the OPEB Plan to
determine the benefit obligations at December 31, 2021.

A 50 basis point decrease to each of the rates in the
December 31, 2021 Willis Towers Watson RATE: Link (10/90)
Model would increase the projected 2022 expense for the Banco
Popular de Puerto Rico Retirement Plan by approximately
$2.6 million. The change would not affect
the minimum
required contribution to the Pension Plans.

The OPEB Plan was unfunded (no assets were held by the
plan) at December 31, 2021. The Corporation had recorded a
liability for the underfunded postretirement benefit obligation
of $160.0 million at December 31, 2021.

interest

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS ANALYSIS
Net Interest Income
Net interest income is the interest earned from loans, debt
securities and money market investments, including loan fees,
minus the interest cost of deposits and borrowings. Various risk
factors affect net
income including the economic
environment in which we operate, market driven events, the
mix and size of the earning assets and related funding, changes
in volumes, repricing characteristics,
loans fees collected,
moratoriums granted on loan payments and delay charges,
loans, as well as strategic
interest collected on nonaccrual
decisions made by the Corporation’s management. Net interest
income for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.0 billion
or $101.0 million higher than in 2020. Net interest income, on
a taxable equivalent basis, for the year ended December 31,
2021 was $2.2 billion compared to $2.0 billion in 2020.

Due to the Corporation’s current asset sensitive position, an
increase in interest rates should have a favorable impact on the
Corporation’s results. See the Risk Management: Market/
Interest Rate Risk section of
this MD&A for additional
information related to the Corporation’s interest rate risk.

The average key index rates for the years 2021 and 2020

were as follows:

Prime rate
Fed funds rate
3-month LIBOR
3-month Treasury Bill
10-year Treasury
FNMA 30-year

2021

2020

3.25% 3.53%
0.25
0.16
0.03
1.44
1.84

0.35
0.65
0.35
0.89
1.01

Average outstanding securities balances are based upon
amortized cost excluding any unrealized gains or losses on
securities available-for-sale. Non-accrual
loans have been
included in the respective average loans and leases categories.
Loan fees collected, and costs incurred in the origination of
loans are deferred and amortized over the term of the loan as an
adjustment to interest yield. Prepayment penalties, late fees
collected and the amortization of premiums / discounts on
purchased loans, including the discount accretion on purchased
credit deteriorated loans (“PCD”), are also included as part of
the period ended
the
income
of
December
impact
$131.6 million,
compared to
$98.5 million for the same period in 2020. The year over year
increase is related to higher amortized fees resulting mainly
from the SBA forgiveness of PPP loans by $53.9 million,
partially offset by $15.4 million lower amortization of the fair
value discount of the auto and credit card portfolios acquired in
previous years.

a
included
related to those

favorable
items,

Interest
2021

loan yield.

31,

for

Table 3 presents

the
the different
Corporation’s net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis,

components of

for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared with the
same period in 2020, segregated by major categories of interest
earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin
was 2.88% in 2021 or 41 basis points lower than the 3.29%
reported in 2020. The lower net interest margin for the year is
driven by the increase of $11.5 billion in average deposits which
were mostly redeployed in overnight Fed Funds and U.S.
Treasury and agency debt securities. These assets, although
accretive to net interest income, are low yielding assets and have
the effect of compressing the net interest margin. Also impacting
the net interest margin was a full year of low short-term rates as
the Federal Reserve decreased by 150 basis points the Federal
Funds Rate in the first quarter of 2020. On a taxable equivalent
basis, net interest margin was 3.19% in 2021, compared to
3.62% in 2020. The main drivers for the increase in net interest
income on a taxable equivalent basis were:

Positive variances:

• Higher interest income from money market and investment
securities due to a higher volume by $11.0 billion, which
resulted from an increase in deposits in most categories,
partially offset by lower yield by 39 basis points driven by a
lower interest rate environment. These larger balances
resulted from an increase in deposits in most categories;

• Higher interest income from commercial loans driven by
higher interest and fees from PPP loans by $54.0 million
when compared to 2020, partially offset the repricing of
adjustable rates loans and origination in a low interest rate
environment;

• The auto and lease financing portfolios increased by
$478 million or 12% driven by continued demand for
automobiles in Puerto Rico after the COVID-19 related
lockdown and higher household liquidity resulting from
COVID-19 relief federal assistances;

• Mortgage loans

interest

income increased 6% when
compared to the year 2020, driven by the $807.6 million
bulk loan repurchases
from our GSE loan servicing
portfolios that occurred at the end of September 2020,
partially offset by lower yields also related to the lower rates
of the repurchased portfolio; and

• Lower interest expense on deposits due to the decrease in
interest cost by 21 basis points resulting from the decrease
in market rates in March 2020, increased liquidity in the
financial industry as a result of retail and commercial federal
support programs and the subsequent effect on these
interest-bearing
liabilities. The decrease in the cost of
deposits was 51 basis points when compared to the year
2020 in the U.S. segment and 13 basis points in P.R. The
impact from lower rates was partially offset by higher
average balance of interest-bearing deposits by $8.4 billon
when compared to the year 2020.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

13

Partially offset by:

• Lower interest income from consumer loans due to lower average volume both on the installment loan and credit card portfolios,

resulting also from a higher household liquidity in the market, as discussed above.

Table 3 - Analysis of Levels & Yields on a Taxable Equivalent Basis from Continuing Operations (Non-GAAP)

Average Volume

Average Yields / Costs

2021

2020 Variance

2021

2020 Variance

Year ended December 31,

(In millions)

$16,000
22,931
84

$ 8,598 $ 7,402
3,578
19,353
15
69

0.13% 0.23% (0.10)% Money market investments
2.22
5.16

Investment securities [1]
Trading securities

(0.20)
(0.84)

2.42
6.00

Interest

2020

2021

Variance
(In thousands)

Variance
Attributable to

Rate

Volume

$

21,147 $
508,131
4,339

19,722 $
467,994
4,165

1,425
40,137
174

$(10,745) $ 12,170
83,860
(43,723)
820
(646)

39,015

28,020

10,995

1.37

1.76

(0.39)

trading securities

533,617

491,881

41,736

(55,114)

96,850

Total money market, investment and

13,455
849
1,289
7,696
2,463
3,322

13,245
913
1,112
7,255
2,839
3,021

210
5.39
(64)
5.41
177
6.00
5.09
441
(376) 11.17
8.47
301

5.23
5.74
6.05
5.23
11.34
8.97

29,074

28,385

689

6.19

6.29

0.16
(0.33)
(0.05)
(0.14)
(0.17)
(0.50)

(0.10)

Loans:

Commercial
Construction
Leasing
Mortgage
Consumer
Auto

Total loans

723,765
45,821
77,356
392,047
275,078
280,722

692,372
52,438
67,247
379,794
322,009
271,162

31,393
(6,617)
10,109
12,253
(46,931)
9,560

20,297
(3,059)
(522)
(10,414)
(5,612)
(16,500)

11,096
(3,558)
10,631
22,667
(41,319)
26,060

1,794,789

1,785,022

9,767

(15,810)

25,577

$68,089

$56,405 $11,684

3.43% 4.04% (0.61)% Total earning assets

$2,328,406 $2,276,903 $ 51,503

$(70,924) $122,427

$25,959
15,429
7,028

$19,678 $ 6,281
3,030
12,399
(943)
7,971

48,416

40,048

8,368

92
1,185

166
1,178

49,693

41,392

14,687
3,709

11,538
3,475

(74)
7

8,301

3,149
234

0.12% 0.28% (0.16)%
0.18
0.75

(0.12)
(0.30)

0.30
1.05

Interest bearing deposits:

NOW and money market [2]
Savings
Time deposits

$

31,911 $
27,123
52,587

54,652 $ (22,741) $(37,171) $ 14,430
8,578
37,765
(10,096)
83,438

(10,642)
(30,851)

(19,220)
(20,755)

0.23

0.35
4.49

0.33

0.44

1.48
4.81

0.57

(0.21)

(1.13)
(0.32)

(0.24)

Total interest bearing deposits

111,621

175,855

(64,234)

(77,146)

12,912

Short-term borrowings
Other medium and long-term debt

318
53,107

2,457
56,626

(2,139)
(3,519)

(1,411)
(2,927)

(728)
(592)

Total interest bearing liabilities

165,046

234,938

(69,892)

(81,484)

11,592

Demand deposits
Other sources of funds

$68,089

$56,405 $11,684

0.24% 0.42% (0.18)% Total source of funds

165,046

234,938

(69,892)

(81,484)

11,592

3.19% 3.62% (0.43)%

Net interest margin/ income on a

taxable equivalent basis
(Non-GAAP)

3.10% 3.47% (0.37)% Net interest spread

2,163,360

2,041,965

121,395

$ 10,560 $110,835

Taxable equivalent adjustment

205,770

185,353

20,418

2.88% 3.29% (0.41)%

non-taxable equivalent basis (GAAP)

$1,957,590 $1,856,612 $100,977

Net interest margin/ income

Note: The changes that are not due solely to volume or rate are allocated to volume and rate based on the proportion of the change in each category.

[1] Average outstanding securities balances are based upon amortized cost excluding any unrealized gains or losses on securities available-for-sale.
[2]

Includes interest bearing demand deposits corresponding to certain government entities in Puerto Rico.

14

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Provision for Credit Losses - Loans Held-in-Portfolio and
Unfunded Commitments
For the year ended December 31, 2021,
the Corporation
recorded a release of $191.3 million for its reserve for credit
related to loans held-in-portfolio and unfunded
losses
commitments,
compared with a provision expense of
$294.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The
reserve release related to the loans-held-in-portfolio for the year
2021 was $183.3 million, compared to a provision expense of
$282.3 million for the year 2020. The decrease reflects the
improvements in credit quality, changes in the macroeconomic
outlook, and changes in qualitative reserves. The provision for
unfunded commitments for the year 2021 reflected a benefit of
$8.0 million, compared to a provision expense of $12.6 million
for the same period of 2020.

The reserve release related to loans held-in-portfolio for the
BPPR segment was $129.0 million for
the year ended
December 31, 2021, compared to a provision expense of
$205.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a
favorable variance of $334.9 million. The reserve release related
to loans held-in-portfolio for the Popular U.S. segment was
$54.3 million for the year 2021, a favorable variance of
compared to a provision expense of
$130.8 million,
$76.5 million for the year 2020.

At December 31, 2021, the total allowance for credit losses
for
loans held-in-portfolio amounted to $695.4 million,
compared to $896.3 million as of December 31, 2020. The ratio
of the allowance for credit losses to loans held-in-portfolio was
2.38% at December 31, 2021,
compared to 3.05% at
December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements,
information on the
for additional
Corporation’s methodology to estimate its allowance for credit
losses (“ACL”). Refer to the Credit Risk section of this MD&A
for a detailed analysis of net charge-offs, non-performing assets,
the allowance for credit losses and selected loan losses statistics.
As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, within the process to estimate its allowance for
the Corporation applies probability
credit
weights
simulations using Moody’s
Analytics’ Baseline, S3 (pessimistic) and S1 (optimistic)
scenarios.

to the outcomes of

losses (“ACL”),

Provision for Credit Losses - Investment Securities
The Corporation’s provision for credit losses related to its
investment securities held-to-maturity is related to the portfolio
of obligations from the Government of Puerto Rico, states and
political subdivisions. For the year ended December 31, 2021,
the Corporation recorded a reserve release of $2.2 million,
compared to a reserve release of $2.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2021, the total allowance
for credit losses for this portfolio amounted to $8.1 million,

compared to $10.3 million as of December 31, 2020. Refer to
Note 7 for additional information on the ACL for this portfolio.

Non-Interest Income
For the year ended December 31, 2021, non-interest income
increased by $129.8 million, when compared with the previous
year, primarily driven by:

• higher

on

service

deposit

charges

by
$14.9 million principally due
fees on
transactional cash management services at BPPR in part
due to the business disruptions and the waiver of fees
related to the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020;

to higher

accounts

• higher other service fees by $53.4 million, principally at
the BPPR segment, due to higher credit and debit card
fees by $43.4 million mainly in interchange income
resulting from higher transactional volumes in part due to
the business disruptions and the waiver of service charges
and late fees related to the COVID-19 pandemic during
2020; higher insurance fees by $5.8 million, from which
$3.0 million were
insurance
commissions recognized during the fourth quarter; and
higher trust fees by $3.1 million;

related to contingent

• higher

(“MSRs”)

income from mortgage banking activities by
$39.7 million mainly due to the impact of the bulk loan
repurchases from the Corporation’s GNMA, FNMA and
FHLMC loan servicing portfolio during 2020 which
resulted in an unfavorable adjustment of $8.8 million and
$10.5 million on the valuation of mortgage servicing
losses,
rights
respectively, and an offsetting positive adjustment
in
servicing fees of $3.4 million; lower unfavorable fair value
adjustments on MSRs by $23.0 million due to changes in
assumptions;
realized gains on closed
derivatives positions by $11.9 million also contributed to
the year over year income improvements; partially offset
by lower gains
from securitization transactions by
$8.9 million; and

and higher

advances

servicing

and

• higher other operating

income by $26.7 million
principally due to higher net earnings from the combined
portfolio of
investments under the equity method by
$15.1 million, the gain of $7.0 million recognized in the
third quarter of 2021 by BPPR as a result of the sale and
partial leaseback of two corporate office buildings, and
higher daily auto rental revenues by $3.9 million;

partially offset by:

• lower net gain on equity securities by $6.1 million mainly
related to a $4.1 million gain on sale of certain equity
securities at PB during the third quarter of 2020.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

15

Operating Expenses
Table 4 provides a breakdown of operating expenses by major categories.

Table 4 - Operating Expenses

(In thousands)

Personnel costs:

Salaries
Commissions, incentives and other bonuses
Pension, postretirement and medical insurance
Other personnel costs, including payroll taxes

Total personnel costs

Net occupancy expenses
Equipment expenses
Other taxes
Professional fees:

Collections, appraisals and other credit related fees
Programming, processing and other technology services
Legal fees, excluding collections
Other professional fees

Total professional fees

Communications
Business promotion
FDIC deposit insurance
Other real estate owned (OREO) (income) expenses
Other operating expenses:

Credit and debit card processing, volume, interchange and other expenses
Operational losses
All other

Total other operating expenses

Amortization of intangibles

Total operating expenses

Personnel costs to average assets
Operating expenses to average assets
Employees (full-time equivalent)
Average assets per employee (in millions)

Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021
increased by $91.4 million, when compared with the previous
year. The increase in operating expenses was driven primarily
by:

• Higher personnel cost by $67.6 million mainly due to
higher incentives related to the profit-sharing plan by
$29.1 million and higher commission and performance-
based incentives by $34.5 million due to improved
performance metrics and salary increases, higher fringe
benefit
by
$8.0 million, partially offset by higher deferred salaries as
a result of higher loan originations during 2021;

expense, mainly medical

insurance

• Higher equipment expense by $3.2 million due to higher

amortization of software costs;

16

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Years ended December 31,

2021

2020

2019

$ 371,644
113,095
52,077
94,986

$ 370,179
78,582
44,123
71,321

$ 351,788
97,764
41,804
99,269

631,802

102,226
92,097
56,783

13,199
272,386
10,712
114,568

410,865

25,234
72,981
25,579
(14,414)

45,088
38,391
53,509

564,205

119,345
88,932
54,454

12,588
253,565
10,611
117,358

394,122

23,496
57,608
23,868
(3,480)

45,108
26,331
57,443

590,625

96,339
84,215
51,653

16,300
247,332
12,877
107,902

384,411

23,450
75,372
18,179
4,298

38,059
21,414
80,097

136,988

128,882

139,570

9,134

6,397

9,370

$1,549,275

$1,457,829

$1,477,482

0.89%
2.18
8,351
8.52

$

0.95%
2.45
8,522
6.99

$

1.17%
2.93
8,560
5.88

$

• Higher professional fees by $16.7 million primarily due to
higher processing service fees due to higher volume of
transactions;

• Higher business promotions by $15.4 million due to
higher customer reward program expense in our credit
card business and higher advertising expense;

losses

sundry

$12.1 million,

• Higher other operating expenses by $8.1 million mainly due
higher
including
by
$3.7 million related to the termination of a white label credit
reserves; and higher
card contract and higher
impairment
by
properties
$3.2 million; partially offset by lower pension plan cost by
$10.0 million due
in actuarial
to annual
assumptions and higher gain on sale of repossess auto units
by $2.8 million; and

undeveloped

changes

losses

legal

on

• Higher amortization of intangibles by $2.7 million due to

a write-down on impairment of a trademark.

These variances were partially offset by:

• Lower net occupancy expense by $17.1 million due to
$19.0 million in costs related to the termination of real
property leases associated with PB’s New York branch
realignment, including the impairment of the right-of-use
assets recorded during 2020; and

• Lower OREO expense by $10.9 million mainly due to

higher gains on sale of mortgage properties.

Income Taxes
For the year ended December 31, 2021,
the Corporation
recorded an income tax expense of $309.0 million, compared to
$111.9 million for the same period of 2020. The income tax
expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 reflects the
impact of higher pre-tax income, resulting primarily from a
lower provision for credit losses partially offset by higher net
exempt
from U.S.
income
operations subject to a lower statutory tax rate.

and higher

interest

income

At December 31, 2021, the Corporation had a net deferred
tax asset amounting to $0.7 billion, net of a valuation allowance
of $0.5 billion. The net deferred tax asset related to the U.S.
operations was $0.2 billion, net of a valuation allowance of
$0.4 billion.

Refer to Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for a reconciliation of the statutory income tax rate to the
effective tax rate and additional information on the income tax
expense and deferred tax asset balances.

Fourth Quarter Results
The Corporation recognized net income of $206.1 million for
the quarter ended December 31, 2021, compared with a net
income of $176.3 million for the same quarter of 2020.

Net interest income for the fourth quarter of 2021 amounted
to $501.3 million, compared with $471.6 million for the fourth
quarter of 2020, an increase of $29.7 million. The increase in
net interest income was mainly due to increase in average
balance of earning assets, mainly due to increase in deposits.
The net interest margin declined by 26 basis points to 2.78%
due to declines in market rates and the earning assets mix,
which were concentrated in overnight Fed Funds, U.S.
Treasuries and agency securities, which are all lower yielding
assets.

The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $33.1 million
compared to a provision expense of $21.2 million for the fourth
quarter of 2020. The benefit recorded in the fourth quarter of
2021 was reflective of improvements in the credit metrics and
the macroeconomic outlook as well as releases in qualitative
reserves.

Non-interest income amounted to $164.7 million for the
compared with
31,

ended December

2020,

quarter

$144.8 million for the same quarter in 2020. The increase of
$19.9 million was mainly due to other service fees, due to
higher volume of
income from
mortgage banking activities.

transactions, and higher

Operating expenses totaled $417.4 million for the quarter
ended December 31, 2021, compared with $375.9 million for
in the previous year. The increase of
the same quarter
$41.5 million is mainly related to higher personnel costs due to
higher salaries, incentives and commissions, higher business
promotion expenses, and higher other operating expenses due
to the reclassification during the fourth quarter in 2020 of
$10.0 million in provision for unfunded commitments from the
other expenses line to the provision for credit losses caption,
partially offset by lower net occupancy expenses related to the
termination of real property leases associated with PB’s New
York branch rationalization, amounting to $19.0 million,
including the impairment of the right-of-use assets and related
costs recorded in the last quarter of 2020.

Income tax expense amounted to $75.6 million for the
quarter ended December 31, 2021, compared with income tax
expense of $43.0 million for the same quarter of 2020. The
increase is mainly due to higher pre-tax income during the
quarter ended December 31, 2021, compared to the quarter
ended December 31, 2020.

REPORTABLE SEGMENT RESULTS
The Corporation’s reportable segments for managerial reporting
purposes consist of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico and Popular
U.S. A Corporate group has been defined to support
the
reportable segments.

For a description of the Corporation’s reportable segments,
including additional financial information and the underlying
management accounting process, refer to Note 37 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Corporate group reported a net income of $13.4 million
for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to a net
income of $8.5 million for the previous year. The increase in
the net income was mainly attributed to lower net interest
expense by $1.4 million, mainly due to lower interest expense
the trust
after the redemption on November 1, 2021 of
preferred securities issued by the Popular Capital Trust I;
higher non-interest income by $10.1 million mainly due to
higher income from the portfolio of equity method investments,
partially offset by higher operating expenses by $6.4 million
mainly due to higher amortization of intangibles due to the
impairment of a trademark.

Highlights on the earnings

results

for

the reportable

segments are discussed below:

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico
The Banco Popular de Puerto Rico reportable segment’s net
the year ended
income amounted to $787.5 million for
December 31, 2021, compared with $499.0 million for the year

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

17

ended December 31, 2020. The results for 2021 included
reserve for credit losses release of $136.4 million. The results
for 2020 were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as
the implementation of the CECL accounting pronouncement
under which provision for credit losses of $211.0 million was
recorded throughout
factors that
contributed to the variance in the financial results included the
following:

the year. The principal

• Higher net interest income by $81.0 million due to higher
income from investment securities by $35.2 million
mainly due to higher average balances, higher income
from loans by $15.3 million, mainly from interest and fees
from commercial PPP loans and higher volume of
mortgage loans and leases, partially offset by lower
income from consumer loans, mainly credit cards; and
lower interest expense from deposits by $29.2 million.
The BPPR segment’s net interest margin was 2.86% for
2021 compared with 3.40% for the same period in 2020.
The decrease was mainly due to the earning asset
composition;

• A reversal of $136.4 million of the reserve for credit
losses, due to improved credit metrics and improved
macroeconomic outlook, compared to a provision expense
of $211.0 million in 2020, which reflected the
implementation of CECL and the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic in the macroeconomic outlook;

• Higher non-interest income by $119.4 million mainly due

to:

• Higher service charges on deposit accounts by
$14.8 million due to the impact in 2020 of lower
transactions and the temporary waiver of fees in
response to the COVID-19 pandemic;

• Higher other service fees by $51.7 million due to
higher debit and credit card transactions and the
fees in response to the
temporary waiver of
COVID-19 pandemic
in 2020 and higher
contingent insurance revenues in 2021;

• Higher mortgage

banking

activities

by
$39.9 million due to lower unfavorable fair value
adjustments on mortgage servicing rights, and
the negative net impact that resulted from the
from the bulk repurchase of
loans from the
Corporation’s GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC loan
servicing portfolio in 2020; and

• Higher other operating income by $10.7 million
due to higher income from the portfolio of equity
method investments, the gain from the sale of
two corporate office buildings in 2021 and higher
income from daily auto rental activities.

18

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

• Higher operating expenses by $112.0 million, mainly due

to:

• Higher personnel costs by $43.6 million mainly
incentives and profit-

due to higher salaries,
sharing plan expense;

• Higher professional fees by $20.3 million mainly
due to processing service fees due to higher
volume of transactions;

• Higher business promotions by $13.6 million
mainly due to higher customer reward program
expense in our credit card business and higher
advertising expense;

to

losses,

higher

• Higher other operating expenses by $34.3 million
including
sundry
due
$3.7 million related to the termination of a white
label credit card contract, impairment losses on
long-lived assets of $5.3 million recorded in
2021, higher legal reserves and higher corporate
expense allocations;

Partially offset by:

• Lower OREO expenses by $11.1 million mainly
residential

due to higher gains on sales of
properties.

• Higher income tax expense by $147.3 million mainly due

to higher income before tax.

Popular U.S.
For the year ended December 31, 2021, the reportable segment
income of $134.1 million,
of Popular U.S.
compared with a net loss of $0.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2020. The principal factors that contributed to
the variance in the financial results included the following:

reported net

• Higher net interest income by $18.6 million mainly due to
lower interest expense on deposits by $36.5 million, due
to lower rates and lower average balance of certificates of
deposits, partially offset by lower income from loans by
$9.8 million mainly from consumer and construction
loans, and lower income from investment securities by
$10.2 million. The Popular U.S. reportable segment’s net
interest margin was 3.39% for 2021 compared with 3.21%
for the same period in 2020;

to

improvements

• A release of $56.9 million of the reserve for credit losses,
due
the
macroeconomic outlook, compared to a provision expense
the
of
implementation of CECL and the effects of the pandemic;

$81.5 million in 2020, mainly due

credit metrics

and

to

• Lower operating expenses by $26.7 million mainly due to:

• Lower occupancy expenses by $22.7 million
mainly due to the impact of the NY branch

in

that
in
resulted
rationalization
2020
termination costs,
$19.0 million in lease
including the impairment of the right of use
assets; and

• Lower professional fees by $5.1 million mainly

due intersegment allocated services;

December 31, 2021. This was largely driven by the additional
funds available to invest resulting from the increase in deposits
across various sectors, partially offset by paydowns of agency
mortgage-backed securities. Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information with respect to
the Corporation’s debt securities available-for-sale.

Partially offset by:

• Higher personnel costs by $6.9 million due to
higher salaries, incentives and profit-sharing plan
expenses.

• Income taxes unfavorable variance of $49.1 million

mainly due to higher income before tax.

total

assets were

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION ANALYSIS
Assets
The Corporation’s
billion at
December 31, 2021, compared to $65.9 billion at December 31,
2020. Refer to the Corporation’s Consolidated Statements of
Financial Condition at December 31, 2021 and 2020 included
in this 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, refer to the
Statistical Summary 2021-2020 in this MD&A for Condensed
Statements of Financial Condition.

$75.1

Money market investments and debt securities
available-for-sale
Money market investments and debt securities available-for-sale
increased by $5.9 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, at

Table 5 - Loans Ending Balances

(In thousands)

Loans held-in-portfolio:

Commercial
Construction
Leasing
Mortgage
Auto
Consumer

Total loans held-in-portfolio

Loans held-for-sale:
Commercial
Mortgage

Total loans held-for-sale

Total loans

Loans
Refer to Table 5 for a breakdown of the Corporation’s loan
portfolio. Also, refer to Note 8 in the Consolidated Financial
Statements for detailed information about the Corporation’s
loan portfolio composition and loan purchases and sales.

Loans held-in-portfolio decreased by $0.1 billion to
$29.2 billion at December 31, 2021, mainly due to a decrease in
commercial loans at BPPR of $0.6 billion principally related to
the repayment of PPP loans, a decrease in mortgage loans at
BPPR of $0.5 billion mainly due to paydowns and a decrease in
construction loans of $0.2 billion, partially offset by an increase
in commercial loans at PB of $0.7 billion principally in the
healthcare industry from which $0.1 billion was related to the
acquisition by PEF of K2’s lease financing business and growth
in auto loans and leases at BPPR by $0.5 billion.

The allowance for credit

losses for the loan portfolio
decreased by $0.2 billion due to improvements in credit quality,
changes in the macroeconomic outlook, and changes in
qualitative reserves. Refer to the Credit Quality section of the
MD&A for additional information on the Allowance for credit
losses for the loan portfolio.

At December 31,
2020
2021

$13,732,701
716,220
1,381,319
7,427,196
3,412,187
2,570,934

$13,614,310
926,208
1,197,661
7,890,680
3,132,228
2,624,109

$29,240,557

$29,385,196

$

$

–
59,168

59,168

$

$

2,738
96,717

99,455

$29,299,725

$29,484,651

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

19

Other assets
Other assets amounted to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2021, a
decrease of $0.1 billion when compared to December 31, 2020.
Refer to Note 14 for a breakdown of the principal categories
that comprise the caption of “Other Assets” in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition at December 31, 2021 and
2020.

Liabilities
The Corporation’s
liabilities were $69.1 billion at
December 31, 2021, an increase of $9.2 billion compared to

total

Table 6 - Financing to Total Assets

$59.9 billion at December 31, 2020, mainly due to increases in
to the Corporation’s
deposits as discussed below. Refer
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition included in
this Form 10-K.

Deposits and Borrowings
The composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 is included in Table 6.

(In millions)

Non-interest bearing deposits
Interest-bearing core deposits
Other interest-bearing deposits
Repurchase agreements
Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable
Other liabilities
Stockholders’ equity

$67.0

billion

totaled

deposits

Deposits
The Corporation’s
at
December 31, 2021, compared to $56.9 billion at December 31,
2020.The deposits increase of $10.1 billion was mainly due to
higher Puerto Rico public sector deposits by $5.2 billion and
higher retail and commercial demand deposits by $3.9 billion at
BPPR. Public sector deposit balances amounted to $20.3 billion
at December 31, 2021. A significant portion of Puerto Rico
public sector deposits are expected to be used by Puerto Rico
pursuant to the Plan of Adjustment for Puerto Rico confirmed
by the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic
Stability Act (“PROMESA”) Title III Court, which is expected to

Table 7 - Deposits Ending Balances

(In thousands)

Demand deposits
Savings, NOW and money market deposits (non-brokered)
Savings, NOW and money market deposits (brokered)
Time deposits (non-brokered)
Time deposits (brokered CDs)

Total deposits

[1]

Includes interest and non-interest bearing demand deposits.

Borrowings
The Corporation’s borrowings amounted to $1.2 billion at
December 31, 2021, compared to $1.3 billion at December 31,
Consolidated
2020.

Refer

Note

the

17

to

to

20

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

December 31, December 31, % increase (decrease) % of total assets
2020

from 2020 to 2021

2020

2021

2021

$15,684
47,954
3,367
92
75
989
968
5,969

$13,129
38,599
5,138
121
–
1,225
1,685
6,029

19.5%
24.2
(34.5)
(24.0)
N.M.
(19.3)
(42.6)
(1.0)

20.9% 19.9%
63.9
4.5
0.1
0.1
1.3
1.3
7.9

58.5
7.8
0.2
–
1.9
2.6
9.1

become effective on or about March 15, 2022. However, the
receipt by the P.R. Government of additional COVID-19 and
hurricane recovery-related Federal assistance and seasonal tax
collections could increase public deposit balances at BPPR in
the near term. The rate at which public deposit balances will
decline is uncertain and difficult to predict. The amount and
timing of any such reduction is likely to be impacted by, for
example, the implementation of the Plan of Adjustment under
Title III of PROMESA and the speed at which the COVID-19
federal assistance is distributed. Refer
to Table 7 for a
breakdown of the Corporation’s deposits at December 31, 2021
and 2020.

2021

2020

$25,889,732
33,674,134
729,073
6,685,938
26,211

$22,532,729
26,390,565
635,198
7,130,749
177,099

$67,005,088

$56,866,340

for

Statements

Financial
information on the
Corporation’s borrowings. Also, refer to the Liquidity section in
this MD&A for additional information on the Corporation’s
funding sources.

detailed

Other liabilities
The Corporation’s other liabilities amounted to $1.0 billion at
December 31, 2021, a decrease of $0.7 billion when compared
to December 31, 2020, mainly due to the settlement of
purchases of debt securities.

income

Stockholders’ Equity
Stockholders’ equity totaled $6.0 billion at December 31, 2021,
a decrease of $59.3 million when compared to December 31,
2020, principally due to higher accumulated unrealized losses
on debt securities available-for-sale by $557.0 million and the
the $350.0 million accelerated share repurchase
impact of
transaction, offset by net
ended
December 31, 2021 of $934.9 million, less declared dividends
of $142.3 million on common stock and $1.4 million in
dividends on preferred stock and a reduction in the adjustment
of pension and postretirement benefit plans of $36.1 million.
Refer to the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition,
Comprehensive Income and of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
for information on the composition of stockholders’ equity.
Also, refer to Note 22 for a detail of accumulated other
comprehensive loss
(income), an integral component of
stockholders’ equity.

the year

for

REGULATORY CAPITAL
The Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are subject to capital
adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve Board.
The risk-based capital standards applicable to Popular, Inc. and
the Banks, BPPR and PB, are based on the final capital
framework of Basel III. The capital rules of Basel III include a
“Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”) capital measure and

Table 8 - Capital Adequacy Data

(Dollars in thousands)

Risk-based capital:

Common Equity Tier 1 capital

Additional Tier 1 Capital

Tier 1 capital
Supplementary (Tier 2) capital

Total capital

Total risk-weighted assets

Adjusted average quarterly assets

Ratios:

Common Equity Tier 1 capital
Tier 1 capital
Total capital
Leverage ratio
Average equity to assets
Average tangible equity to assets
Average equity to loans

specifies that Tier 1 capital consist of CET1 and “Additional
Tier 1 Capital” instruments meeting specified requirements.
Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements presents
further information on the Corporation’s regulatory capital
requirements,
its
depository institutions, BPPR and PB.

including the regulatory capital ratios of

An institution is considered “well-capitalized” if it maintains
a total capital ratio of 10%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a CET1
ratio of 6.5% and a leverage ratio of 5%. The
capital
the
Corporation’s ratios presented in Table 8 show that
Corporation was “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes, the
highest classification, under Basel III for years 2021 and 2020.
BPPR and PB were also well-capitalized for all years presented.

these minimum risk-weighted asset

The Basel III Capital Rules also require an additional 2.5%
“capital conservation buffer”, composed entirely of CET1, on
top of
ratios, which
excludes the leverage ratio. The capital conservation buffer is
designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress.
Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted
assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation
buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases,
the shortfall.
and compensation based on the amount of
Popular, BPPR and PB are required to maintain this additional
capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, resulting in
minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least
7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%,
and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%.

Table 8 presents

the Corporation’s

capital

adequacy

information for the years 2021 and 2020.

At December 31,
2020
2021

$ 5,476,031

$ 4,992,096

22,143

22,143

$ 5,498,174
585,931

$ 5,014,239
759,680

$ 6,084,105

$ 5,773,919

$31,441,224

$30,702,091

$74,238,367

$64,305,022

17.42%
17.49
19.35
7.41
8.12
7.20
19.87

16.26%
16.33
18.81
7.80
9.10
8.02
19.09

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

21

in the

On April 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the final rule
issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies pursuant to
the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction
Act of 1996 that simplified several requirements in the agencies’
regulatory capital rules. These rules simplified the regulatory
capital requirement
for mortgage servicing assets (MSAs),
deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences and
investments
capital of unconsolidated financial
institutions by raising the CET1 deduction threshold from 10%
to 25%. The 15% CET1 deduction threshold which applies to
the aggregate amount of such items was eliminated. The rule
also requires, among other changes, increasing from 100% to
250% the risk weight
to MSAs and temporary difference
deferred tax asset not deducted from capital. For investments in
institutions, the risk
the capital of unconsolidated financial
weight would be based on the exposure category of
the
investment.

The increase in the CET1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio
and, total capital ratio as of December 31, 2021, compared to
December 31, 2020, was mostly due to the year earnings,
partially offset by the accelerated share repurchase agreement to
repurchase an aggregate of $350 million of Popular’s common
stock and the slight increase in risk weighted assets. The
decrease in leverage capital ratio was mainly due to the increase
in average total assets, driven by investments in zero or low-risk
weighted debt
that
therefore did not have a significant impact on the risk-weighted
assets.

securities and overnight Fed Funds

Pursuant to the adoption of CECL on January 1, 2020, the
Corporation elected to use the five-year transition period option
as provided in the final interim regulatory capital rules effective
March 31,2020. The five-year transition period provision delays
for two years the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory
capital, followed by a three-year transition period to phase out
the aggregate amount of the capital benefits provided during
the initial two-year delay.
On April 9, 2020,

federal banking regulators issued an
interim final rule to modify the Basel III regulatory capital rules
applicable
allow those
organizations participating in the Paycheck Protection Program
(“PPP”) established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and
Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) to neutralize the
regulatory capital effects of participating in the program.
banking
Specifically,
organizations,
the Corporation and its Bank
subsidiaries, are permitted to assign a zero percent risk weight
to PPP loans for purposes of determining risk-weighted assets
and risk-based capital ratios. Additionally, in order to facilitate
use of the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility (the
“PPPL Facility”), which provides Federal Reserve Bank loans to

agencies have

organizations

including

banking

clarified

that

the

to

to

eligible financial institutions such as the Corporation’s Bank
subsidiaries to fund PPP loans, the agencies further clarified
that, for purposes of determining leverage ratios, a banking
organization is permitted to exclude from total average assets
PPP loans that have been pledged as collateral for a PPPL
Facility. As of December 31, 2021,
the Corporation has
$353 million in PPP loans and no loans were pledged as
collateral for PPPL Facilities.
Table 9 reconciles

total
stockholders’ equity to common equity Tier 1 capital.

the Corporation’s

common

Table 9 - Reconciliation Common Equity Tier 1 Capital

(In thousands)

At December 31,
2020
2021

Common stockholders’ equity

$6,116,756

$6,224,942

AOCI related adjustments due to

opt-out election

Goodwill, net of associated deferred

257,762

(261,245)

tax liability (DTL)

(591,703)

(591,931)

Intangible assets, net of associated

DTLs

Deferred tax assets and other

deductions

(16,219)

(22,466)

(290,565)

(357,204)

Common equity tier 1 capital

$5,476,031

$4,992,096

Common equity tier 1 capital to risk-

weighted assets

17.42%

16.26%

Non-GAAP financial measures
The tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per
common share, which are presented in the table that follows,
are non-GAAP measures. Management and many stock analysts
use the tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value
per common share in conjunction with more traditional bank
capital ratios to compare the capital adequacy of banking
organizations with significant amounts of goodwill or other
intangible assets,
the
purchase accounting method of accounting for mergers and
acquisitions. Neither tangible common equity nor tangible
assets or related measures should be considered in isolation or
as a substitute for stockholders’ equity, total assets or any other
measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles
in the United States of America
(“GAAP”). Moreover, the manner in which the Corporation
calculates its tangible common equity, tangible assets and any
other related measures may differ from that of other companies
reporting measures with similar names.

typically stemming from the use of

Table 10 provides a reconciliation of total stockholders’
equity to tangible common equity and total assets to tangible
assets at December 31, 2021 and 2020.

22

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Table 10 - Reconciliation of Tangible Common Equity and
Tangible Assets

(In thousands, except share or per
share information)

Total stockholders’ equity
Less: Preferred stock
Less: Goodwill
Less: Other intangibles

At December 31,

2021

2020

$ 5,969,397
(22,143)
(720,293)
(16,219)

$ 6,028,687
(22,143)
(671,122)
(22,466)

Total tangible common equity

$ 5,210,742

$ 5,312,956

Total assets
Less: Goodwill
Less: Other intangibles

Total tangible assets

Tangible common equity to tangible

assets

Common shares outstanding at end of

$75,097,899
(720,293)
(16,219)

$65,926,000
(671,122)
(22,466)

$74,361,387

$65,232,412

7.01%

8.14%

period

79,851,169

84,244,235

Tangible book value per common

share

Total stockholders’ equity [1]
Less: Preferred Stock
Less: Goodwill
Less: Other intangibles

Total tangible common equity
Average return on tangible common

equity

$

65.26

$

63.07

Year-to-date average

$ 5,777,652
(22,143)
(679,959)
(20,861)

$ 5,419,938
(26,277)
(671,121)
(25,154)

$ 5,054,689

$ 4,697,386

18.47%

10.75%

[1] Average balances exclude unrealized gains or losses on debt securities

available-for-sale.

RISK MANAGEMENT
Market / Interest Rate Risk
The financial results and capital levels of the Corporation are
constantly exposed to market, interest rate and liquidity risks.

Market risk refers to the risk of a reduction in the
Corporation’s capital due to changes in the market valuation of
its assets and/or liabilities.

Most of the assets subject to market valuation risk are debt
securities classified as available-for-sale. Refer to Notes 6 and 7
for further information on the debt securities available-for-sale
and held-to-maturity portfolios. Debt securities classified as
available-for-sale amounted to $25.0 billion as of December 31,
2021. Other assets subject
risk include loans
held-for-sale, which amounted to $59 million, mortgage
servicing rights (“MSRs”) which amounted to $122 million and
to
securities
$30 million, as of December 31, 2021.

“trading”, which amounted

to market

classified

as

Interest Rate Risk (“IRR”)
The Corporation’s net interest income is subject to various
categories of interest rate risk, including repricing, basis, yield

In managing interest

curve and option risks.
rate risk,
management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets
and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities
through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter
into derivative contracts, among other alternatives.

Interest rate risk management is an active process that
encompasses monitoring loan and deposit flows complemented
by investment and funding activities. Effective management of
interest rate risk begins with understanding the dynamic
characteristics of assets and liabilities and determining the
appropriate rate risk position given line of business forecasts,
management objectives, market
and policy
constraints.

expectations

Management utilizes various tools to assess IRR, including
Net Interest Income (“NII”) simulation modeling, static gap
analysis, and Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”). The three
methodologies complement each other and are used jointly in
the evaluation of
simulation
modeling is prepared for a five-year period, which in
conjunction with the EVE analysis, provides management a
better view of long-term IRR.

the Corporation’s

IRR. NII

Net interest income simulation analysis performed by legal
entity and on a consolidated basis is a tool used by the
Corporation in estimating the potential change in net interest
income resulting from hypothetical changes in interest rates.
Sensitivity analysis is calculated using a simulation model
which incorporates actual balance sheet figures detailed by
maturity and interest yields or costs.

Management assesses interest rate risk by comparing various
NII simulations under different interest rate scenarios that
differ in direction of interest rate changes, the degree of change
and the projected shape of the yield curve. For example, the
types of rate scenarios processed during the quarter include flat
rates,
implied forwards, and parallel and non-parallel rate
shocks. Management also performs analyses to isolate and
measure basis and prepayment risk exposures.

The

asset

and liability management group performs
validation procedures on various assumptions used as part of
the simulation analyses as well as validations of results on a
monthly basis. In addition, the model and processes used to
assess IRR are subject to independent validations according to
the guidelines established in the Model Governance and
Validation policy.

in

these market

The Corporation processes NII simulations under interest
rate scenarios in which the yield curve is assumed to rise and
decline by the same amount (parallel shifts). The rate scenarios
considered
reflect
instantaneous parallel changes of -100, -200, +100, +200 and
+400 basis points during the succeeding twelve-month period.
Simulation analyses are based on many assumptions, including
relative levels of market interest rates across all yield curve
points and indexes, interest rate spreads, loan prepayments and
deposit elasticity. Thus, they should not be relied upon as

simulations

risk

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

23

indicative of actual results. Further,
the estimates do not
contemplate actions that management could take to respond to
changes in interest rates. By their nature, these forward-looking
computations are only estimates and may be different from
what may actually occur in the future. The following table

presents the results of the simulations at December 31, 2021
and December 31, 2020, assuming a static balance sheet and
parallel changes over flat spot rates over a one-year time
horizon:

Table 11 - Net Interest Income Sensitivity (One Year Projection)

December 31, 2021

December 31, 2020

Amount Change Percent Change Amount Change Percent Change

$ 257,223
197,354
166,920
(78,408)
(120,661)

13.21%
10.14
8.57
(4.03)
(6.20)

$167,474
81,690
39,361
(53,952)
(71,517)

9.19%
4.49
2.16
(2.96)
(3.93)

continue to be close to their lower bound and Popular does not
allow rates to turn negative in its IRR simulations.

The Corporation’s loan and investment portfolios are subject
to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a third-
party to repay debt obligations prior to maturity. Prepayment
risk also could have a significant impact on the duration of
collateralized mortgage
mortgage-backed
obligations
lower
prepayments could extend) the weighted average life of these
portfolios.

could shorten (or

since prepayments

securities

and

(Dollars in thousands)

Change in interest rate
+400 basis points
+200 basis points
+100 basis points
-100 basis points
-200 basis points

simulations

As of December 31, 2021, NII
show the
Corporation maintains an asset sensitive position and is
expected to benefit from an overall rising rate environment.
The increases in sensitivity for the period are primarily driven
by the significant deposit increases seen in 2021, which have
resulted in a higher level of short-term investments and cash
reserves maintained at the Federal Reserve. These assets reprice
immediately under the NII simulations, thus improving the NII
benefit in rising rate scenarios. The declining rate scenarios
show a smaller and asymmetric impact in sensitivity as rates

24

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Table 12 - Interest Rate Sensitivity

(Dollars in thousands)

0-30 days

After three
months but
within six
months

Within 31 -
90 days

At December 31, 2021
By repricing dates
After nine
months but
within one
year

After one
year but
within two
years

After six
months but
within nine
months

After two
years

Non-interest
bearing
funds

Total

Assets:
Money market
investments

Investment and trading

securities

Loans
Other assets

Total

Liabilities and

stockholders’ equity:
Savings, NOW and money

market and other
interest bearing demand
deposits

Certificates of deposit
Federal funds purchased

and assets

sold under agreements to

repurchase
Notes payable
Non-interest bearing

deposits

Other non-interest bearing

liabilities

Stockholders’ equity

$17,536,719 $

– $

– $

– $

– $

– $

– $

– $17,536,719

301,103

436,980
4,907,214 2,492,007
–

–

664,755
1,412,901
–

678,066
1,359,602
–

712,179

3,936,869 17,980,634
1,307,655 4,272,336 13,548,010
–

–

–

548,736 25,259,322
– 29,299,725
3,002,133

3,002,133

22,745,036 2,928,987

2,077,656

2,037,668

2,019,834 8,209,205 31,528,644

3,550,869 75,097,899

23,065,038
1,940,456

809,349
496,482

1,137,611
642,437

1,053,198
647,957

976,622
357,661

3,260,426 14,306,213
1,655,856

971,300

31,550

30,295

20,102

9,656

–

–

–

75,000
1,000

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
100,000

–

–
–

–
–

–

–
–

–
2,148

–
341,103

–
544,312

–

–
–

–

–
–

–

–
–

15,684,482 15,684,482

968,248
5,969,397

968,248
5,969,397

– 44,608,457
6,712,149
–

–

–
–

91,603

75,000
988,563

Total

$25,113,044 $1,336,126 $1,900,150 $1,710,811 $1,336,431 $4,572,829 $16,506,381 $ 22,622,127 $75,097,899

Interest rate sensitive gap
Cumulative interest rate

(2,368,008) 1,592,861

177,506

326,857

683,403

3,636,376 15,022,263 (19,071,258)

sensitive gap

(2,368,008)

(775,147)

(597,641)

(270,784)

412,619

4,048,995 19,071,258

Cumulative interest rate

sensitive gap to earning
assets

(3.31)% (1.08)%

(0.84)%

(0.38)%

0.58%

5.66%

26.66%

–

–

–

–

–

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

25

Table 13, which presents the maturity distribution of earning assets, takes into consideration prepayment assumptions.

Table 13 - Maturity Distribution of Earning Assets

As of December 31, 2021
Maturities

After one year
through five years
Fixed
interest
rates

Variable
interest
rates

After five years
through fifteen years
Variable
Fixed
interest
interest
rates
rates

After fifteen years
Fixed
interest
rates

Variable
interest
rates

One year or
less

$17,536,719

$

–

$

–

$

–

$

–

$

–

$

2,714,995

14,688,701

14,430

7,164,229

4,952

482,039

5,067,977
497,519
408,552
1,640,359
787,698

4,223,468
32,857
959,267
3,292,532
2,623,120

2,631,141
149,412
–
268,033
121,010

910,162
4,693
13,500
182,496
3,381,618

735,828
31,739
–
527,827
26,056

Total

$17,536,719

25,069,345

13,732,701
716,220
1,381,319
5,983,121
7,486,364

29,299,725

–

–

84,054
–
–
–
–

84,054

80,071
–
–
71,873
546,863

698,807

(In thousands)

Money market securities
Investment and trading

securities

Loans:

Commercial
Construction
Leasing
Consumer
Mortgage

Subtotal loans

8,402,106

11,131,244

3,169,597

4,492,468

1,321,449

Total earning assets

$28,653,820

$25,819,945

$3,184,027

$11,656,696

$1,326,401

$1,180,847

$84,054

$71,905,789

Note: Equity securities available-for-sale and other investment securities, including Federal Reserve Bank stock and Federal Home Loan Bank stock held by the

Corporation, are not included in this table.
Loans held-for-sale have been allocated according to the expected sale date.

trading

activities

to meet

Securities’

Trading
The Corporation engages in trading activities in the ordinary
its subsidiaries, BPPR and Popular
course of business at
consist
Securities. Popular
primarily of market-making activities
expected
customers’ needs related to its retail brokerage business, and
purchases and sales of U.S. Government and government
sponsored securities with the objective of realizing gains from
expected short-term price movements. BPPR’s trading activities
consist primarily of holding U.S. Government
sponsored
mortgage-backed securities classified as “trading” and hedging
the related market risk with “TBA” (to-be-announced) market
transactions. The objective is to derive spread income from the
portfolio and not
from short-term market
movements. In addition, BPPR uses forward contracts or TBAs
to hedge its securitization pipeline. Risks related to variations
in interest rates and market volatility are hedged with TBAs that
have characteristics similar to that of the forecasted security
and its conversion timeline.

to benefit

At December 31, 2021,

the Corporation held trading
representing
securities with a fair value of $30 million,
assets,
total
approximately 0.04% of
the Corporation’s
compared with $37 million and 0.1%,
at
respectively,
December 31, 2020. As shown in Table 14, the trading portfolio
consists principally of mortgage-backed securities which at
December 31, 2021 were investment grade securities. As of
December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020,
the trading
portfolio also included $0.1 million in Puerto Rico government
obligations. Trading instruments are recognized at fair value,
with changes resulting from fluctuations in market prices,
interest rates or exchange rates reported in current period
earnings. The Corporation recognized a net trading account
loss of $389 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2021
and a net trading account gain of $1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2020.

26

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Table 14 - Trading Portfolio

(Dollars in thousands)

Mortgage-backed securities
U.S. Treasury securities
Collateralized mortgage obligations
Puerto Rico government obligations
Interest-only strips

Total

[1] Not on a taxable equivalent basis.

The Corporation’s trading activities are limited by internal
policies. For each of the two subsidiaries, the market risk
assumed under trading activities is measured by the 5-day net
value-at-risk (“VAR”), with a confidence level of 99%. The VAR
measures the maximum estimated loss that may occur over a
5-day holding period, given a 99% probability.

are numerous

The Corporation’s trading portfolio had a 5-day VAR of
approximately $0.3 million for the last week in December 31,
and estimates
2021. There
associated with VAR modeling, and actual results could differ
from these assumptions and estimates. Backtesting is performed
to compare actual results against maximum estimated losses, in
order to evaluate model and assumptions accuracy.

assumptions

In the opinion of management, the size and composition of
the trading portfolio does not represent a significant source of
market risk for the Corporation.

Derivatives
Derivatives may be used by the Corporation as part of its
overall
interest rate risk management strategy to minimize
significant unexpected fluctuations in earnings and cash flows
that are caused by interest rate volatility. Derivative instruments
that the Corporation may use include, among others, interest
indexed options, and forward contracts. The
rate caps,
Corporation does not use highly
leveraged derivative
instruments in its interest rate risk management strategy. Credit
risk embedded in these transactions is reduced by requiring
appropriate collateral from counterparties and entering into
netting
outstanding
derivatives are recognized in the Corporation’s Consolidated
Statements of Condition at their fair value. Refer to Note 26 for
further
in
information on the Corporation’s
derivative instruments and hedging activities.

agreements whenever possible. All

involvement

Cash Flow Hedges
The Corporation manages the variability of cash payments due
to interest rate fluctuations by the effective use of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges and that are linked to specified
hedged assets and liabilities. The cash flow hedges relate to

December 31, 2021
Weighted
Average
Yield [1] Amount

December 31, 2020
Weighted
Average
Yield [1]

Amount

$22,559
6,530
257
85
280

$29,711

5.12% $24,338
11,506
0.03
346
5.61
103
0.47
381
12.00

4.06% $36,674

5.19%
0.04
5.65
0.48
12.00

3.64%

forward contracts or TBA mortgage-backed securities that are
sold and bought for future settlement to hedge mortgage-
backed securities and loans prior to securitization. The seller
agrees to deliver on a specified future date a specified
instrument at a specified price or yield. These securities are
hedging a forecasted transaction and are designated for cash
flow hedge accounting. The notional amount of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2021 amounted
to $ 88 million (2020 - $ 189 million). Refer to Note 26 for
additional
information on these derivative
contracts.

quantitative

Fair Value Hedges
The Corporation did not have any derivatives designated as fair
value hedges during the years ended December 31, 2021 and
2020.

Trading and Non-Hedging Derivative Activities
The Corporation enters into derivative positions based on
from price differentials
market expectations or to benefit
between financial
to
economically hedge a related asset or liability. The Corporation
also enters into various derivatives to provide these types of
derivative
free-standing
derivatives are carried at fair value with changes in fair value
recorded as part of the results of operations for the period.

and markets mostly

customers. These

instruments

products

to

Following is a description of the most significant of the
Corporation’s derivative activities that are not designated for
hedge accounting.

The Corporation has over-the-counter option contracts
which are utilized in order to limit the Corporation’s exposure
on customer deposits whose returns are tied to the S&P 500 or
to certain other equity securities or commodity indexes. In
these certificates, the customer’s principal is guaranteed by the
Corporation and insured by the FDIC to the maximum extent
permitted by law. The instruments pay a return based on the
increase of these indexes, as applicable, during the term of the
this product gives customers the
instrument. Accordingly,
opportunity to invest in a product that protects the principal

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

27

invested but allows the customer the potential to earn a return
based on the performance of the indexes. The risk of issuing
certificates of deposit with returns tied to the applicable indexes
is economically hedged by the Corporation. Indexed options
are purchased from financial institutions with strong credit
standings, whose return is designed to match the return payable
on the certificates of deposit issued. By hedging the risk in this
manner,
these deposits is fixed. The
contracts have a maturity and an index equal to the terms of the
pool of retail deposits that they are economically hedging.

the effective cost of

The purchased indexed options are used to economically
hedge the bifurcated embedded option. These option contracts
do not qualify for hedge accounting, and therefore, cannot be
designated as accounting hedges. At December 31, 2021, the
indexed options on deposits
notional
approximated $79 million (2020 - $69 million) with a fair value
of $26 million (asset) (2020 - $21 million) while the embedded
options had a notional value of $72 million (2020 - $63
million) with a fair value of $23 million (liability) (2020 - $18
million).

amount of

the

Refer to Note 26 for a description of other non-hedging
derivative activities utilized by the Corporation during 2021
and 2020.

Foreign Exchange
The Corporation holds an interest
in BHD León in the
Dominican Republic, which is an investment accounted for
under the equity method. The Corporation’s carrying value of
the equity interest in BHD León approximated $180.3 million at
December 31, 2021. This business is conducted in the country’s
foreign currency. The resulting foreign currency translation
adjustment, from operations for which the functional currency
is other than the U.S. dollar, is reported in accumulated other
comprehensive loss in the consolidated statements of condition,
except for highly-inflationary environments in which the effects
would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.
At December 31, 2021, the Corporation had approximately
$67 million in an unfavorable foreign currency translation
adjustment as part of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss), compared with an unfavorable adjustment of $71 million
at December 31, 2020 and $57 million at December 31, 2019.

finance expected future growth,

Liquidity
The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure
that the Corporation has sufficient liquidity to meet all of its
financial obligations,
fund
planned capital distributions and maintain a reasonable safety
margin for cash commitments under both normal and stressed
market conditions. The Board of Directors is responsible for
establishing the Corporation’s tolerance for liquidity risk,
including approving relevant risk limits and policies. The Board
of Directors has delegated the monitoring of these risks to the
Board’s Risk Management Committee and the Asset/Liability

28

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Management Committee. The management of liquidity risk, on
a long-term and day-to-day basis, is the responsibility of the
Corporate Treasury Division. The Corporation’s Corporate
Treasurer is responsible for implementing the policies and
procedures approved by the Board of Directors and for
monitoring the Corporation’s liquidity position on an ongoing
the Corporate Treasury Division coordinates
basis. Also,
corporate wide liquidity management strategies and activities
with the reportable segments, oversees policy breaches and
manages the escalation process. The Financial and Operational
Risk Management Division is responsible for the independent
monitoring and reporting of adherence with established
policies.

An institution’s liquidity may be pressured if, for example, it
experiences a sudden and unexpected substantial cash outflow
due to exogenous events such as the current COVID-19
pandemic, its credit rating is downgraded, or some other event
causes counterparties to avoid exposure to the institution. Factors
that the Corporation does not control, such as the economic
outlook, adverse ratings of its principal markets and regulatory
changes, could also affect its ability to obtain funding.

Liquidity is managed by the Corporation at the level of the
holding companies that own the banking and non-banking
subsidiaries. It is also managed at the level of the banking and
non-banking subsidiaries. As
further explained below, a
principal source of liquidity for the bank holding companies
received from banking and
(the “BHCs”) are dividends
non-banking subsidiaries. The Corporation has adopted policies
and limits to monitor more effectively the Corporation’s
liquidity position and that of
the banking subsidiaries.
Additionally, contingency funding plans are used to model
various stress events of different magnitudes and affecting
different time horizons that assist management in evaluating
the size of the liquidity buffers needed if those stress events
occur. However, such models may not predict accurately how
the market and customers might react to every event, and are
dependent on many assumptions.

Deposits,

funds for the Corporation,

including customer deposits, brokered deposits
and public funds deposits, continue to be the most significant
funding 89% of the
source of
Corporation’s total assets at December 31, 2021 and 86% at
December 31, 2020. The ratio of total ending loans to deposits
was 44% at December 31, 2021, compared to 52% at
December 31, 2020. In addition to traditional deposits, the
Corporation maintains
arrangements, which
borrowing
amounted to approximately $1.2 billion in outstanding balances
at December 31, 2021 (December 31, 2020 - $1.3 billion). A
detailed description of the Corporation’s borrowings, including
is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated
their terms,
Financial Statements. Also,
the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements provide information on the Corporation’s cash
inflows and outflows.

On September 9, 2021,

the Corporation completed an
accelerated share repurchase program for the repurchase of an
aggregate $350 million of Popular’s common stock, refer to
Note 31 for additional information.

On November 1, 2021,

the Corporation redeemed all
outstanding
Income Trust
Preferred Securities issued by the Popular Capital Trust I, refer
to Note 17 for additional information.

6.70% Cumulative Monthly

On January 12, 2022, Popular, Inc. announced the plan to
increase its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.45 per
share to $0.55 per share, commencing with the dividend
payable in the second quarter of 2022, subject to the approval
by its Board of Directors, and repurchase up to $500 million of
its common stock during 2022.

The following sections provide further information on the
Corporation’s major funding activities and needs, as well as the
risks involved in these activities.

Banking Subsidiaries
Primary sources of
funding for the Corporation’s banking
subsidiaries (BPPR and PB or, collectively, “the banking
subsidiaries”) include retail, commercial and public sector
deposits, brokered deposits, unpledged investment securities,
mortgage loan securitization and, to a lesser extent, loan sales.
In addition, the Corporation maintains borrowing facilities with
the FHLB and at the discount window of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York (the “FRB”) and has a considerable amount
of collateral pledged that can be used to raise funds under these
facilities.

Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Corporation’s borrowing

for additional
facilities available through its banking subsidiaries.

information of

and

repurchases,

The principal uses of funds for the banking subsidiaries
include loan originations, investment portfolio purchases, loan
purchases
outstanding
obligations (including deposits), advances on certain serviced
portfolios
the banking
subsidiaries assume liquidity risk related to collateral posting
requirements for certain activities mainly in connection with
servicing
contractual

recourse provisions,

and operational

expenses. Also,

commitments,

repayment

of

advances, derivatives, credit card licensing agreements and
support to several mutual funds administered by BPPR.
The banking subsidiaries maintain sufficient

funding
capacity to address large increases in funding requirements
such as deposit outflows. The Corporation has established
liquidity guidelines that require the banking subsidiaries to
have sufficient liquidity to cover all short-term borrowings and
a portion of deposits.

recognized credit

The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the
marketplace for deposits, excluding brokered deposits, depends
on various factors, including pricing, service, convenience and
financial stability as reflected by operating results, credit ratings
(by nationally
and
importantly, FDIC deposit insurance. Although a downgrade in
the credit ratings of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries may
impact their ability to raise retail and commercial deposits or
the rate that it is required to pay on such deposits, management
does not believe that the impact should be material. Deposits at
the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are federally
all of
insured (subject to FDIC limits) and this is expected to mitigate
the potential effect of a downgrade in the credit ratings.

agencies),

rating

Deposits are a key source of funding as they tend to be less
volatile than institutional borrowings and their cost is less
sensitive to changes in market rates. Refer to Table 7 for a
breakdown of deposits by major types. Core deposits are
generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and public
sector customers. Core deposits include all non-interest bearing
deposits, savings deposits and certificates of deposit under
$250,000, excluding brokered deposits with denominations
under $250,000. Core deposits have historically provided the
Corporation with a sizable source of relatively stable and
low-cost funds. Core deposits totaled $63.6 billion, or 95% of
total deposits,
compared with
at December 31, 2021,
$51.7 billion, or 91% of total deposits, at December 31, 2020.
Core deposits financed 88% of the Corporation’s earning assets
at December 31, 2021, compared with 82% at December 31,
2020.

The distribution by maturity of certificates of deposits with
denominations of $250,000 and over at December 31, 2021 is
presented in the table that follows:

Table 15 - Distribution by Maturity of Certificate of Deposits of $250,000 and Over

(In thousands)

3 months or less
Over 3 to 12 months
Over 1 year to 3 years
Over 3 years

Total

$1,772,700
500,200
219,395
133,795

$2,626,090

Average deposits, including brokered deposits, for the year ended December 31, 2021 represented 93% of average earning

assets, compared with 91% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Table 16 summarizes average deposits for the past three years.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

29

Table 16 - Average Total Deposits

(In thousands)

Non-interest bearing demand deposits

Savings accounts
NOW, money market and other interest bearing demand accounts
Certificates of deposit

Total interest bearing deposits

Total average deposits

The Corporation had $0.8 billion in brokered deposits at
December 31, 2021, which financed approximately 1% of its
total assets (December 31, 2020 - $0.8 billion and 1%,
respectively). In the event that any of the Corporation’s banking
subsidiaries’ regulatory capital ratios fall below those required
by a well-capitalized institution or are subject
to capital
restrictions by the regulators, that banking subsidiary faces the
risk of not being able to raise or maintain brokered deposits and
faces limitations on the rate paid on deposits, which may hinder
the Corporation’s ability to effectively compete in its retail
markets and could affect its deposit raising efforts.

Deposits from the public sector represent an important
source of funds for the Corporation. As of December 31, 2021,
total public sector deposits were $20.3 billion, compared to
$15.1 billion at December 31, 2020. Generally, these deposits
require that the bank pledge high credit quality securities as
collateral; therefore liquidity risks arising from public sector
deposit outflows are lower given that the bank receives its
collateral in return. This, now unpledged, collateral can either
be financed via repurchase agreements or sold for cash.
However, there are some timing differences between the time
the deposit outflow occurs and when the bank receives its
collateral.

At December 31, 2021, management believes that
the
banking subsidiaries had sufficient current and projected
liquidity sources to meet their anticipated cash flow obligations,
as well as special needs and off-balance sheet commitments, in
the ordinary course of business and have sufficient liquidity
resources to address a stress event. Although the banking
subsidiaries have historically been able to replace maturing
deposits and advances, no assurance can be given that they
would be able to replace those funds in the future if the
Corporation’s financial condition or general market conditions
were to deteriorate. The Corporation’s financial flexibility will
be severely constrained if the banking subsidiaries are unable to
maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not
available to accommodate future financing needs at acceptable
interest rates. The banking subsidiaries also are required to
to meet margin
deposit

cash or qualifying

securities

30

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

For the years ended
December 31,

2021

2020

$14,687,093

$11,537,700

15,753,630
25,648,707
7,013,486

12,620,755
19,466,357
7,960,967

48,415,823

40,048,079

$63,102,916

$51,585,779

that

the value of securities
requirements. To the extent
previously pledged as collateral declines because of market
changes, the Corporation will be required to deposit additional
cash or securities to meet its margin requirements, thereby
is
adversely affecting its liquidity. Finally,
required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding
sources to meet its future growth, revenues may not increase
proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would
be adversely affected.

if management

investment

securities, dividends

Bank Holding Companies
The principal sources of funding for the BHCs, which are
Popular, Inc. (holding company only) and PNA, include cash
received from
on hand,
banking and non-banking subsidiaries, asset
sales, credit
facilities available from affiliate banking subsidiaries and
proceeds from potential securities offerings. Dividends from
banking and non-banking subsidiaries are subject to various
regulatory limits and authorization requirements that are
further described below and that may limit the ability of those
subsidiaries to act as a source of funding to the BHCs.

The principal use of these funds includes the repayment of
debt, and interest payments to holders of senior debt and junior
subordinated deferrable interest (related to trust preferred
securities), the payment of dividends to common stockholders
and capitalizing its banking subsidiaries.

the cash needs of

The BHCs have in the past borrowed in the money markets
and in the corporate debt market primarily to finance their
non-banking subsidiaries; however,
the
Corporation’s non-banking subsidiaries other than to repay
indebtedness and interest are now minimal. These sources of
funding are more costly due to the fact that two out of the three
principal credit rating agencies rate the Corporation below
“investment grade”, which affects the Corporation’s cost and
ability to raise funds in the capital markets. The Corporation
has an automatic shelf registration statement filed and effective
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which permits
the Corporation to issue an unspecified amount of debt or
equity securities.

The outstanding balance of notes payable at the BHCs
amounted to $496 million at December 31, 2021 and $682 at
December 31, 2020.

The contractual maturities of the BHCs notes payable at

December 31, 2021 are presented in Table 17.

BPPR, $4 million from PIBI which main source of income is
derived from its investment in BHD, $31 million in dividends
from its non-banking subsidiaries and $2 million in dividends
from EVERTEC. Dividends from BPPR constitute Popular,
Inc.’s primary source of liquidity.

Table 17 - Distribution of BHC’s Notes Payable by
Contractual Maturity

Year

2023
Later years

Total

(In thousands)

$297,842
198,292

$496,134

is

at

service

the BHCs

Annual debt

approximately
$32 million, and the Corporation’s latest quarterly dividend was
$0.45 per share. On February 23, 2022, the Board of Directors
of the Corporation declared a $0.55 cash dividend per common
share, payable on April 1, 2022. The BHCs liquidity position
continues to be adequate with sufficient cash on hand,
investments and other sources of liquidity which are expected
to be enough to meet all BHCs obligations during the
foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2021, the BHCs had
cash and money markets investments totaling $292 million,
borrowing potential of $157 million from its secured facility
with BPPR. In addition to these liquidity sources, the stake in
EVERTEC had a market value of $583 million as of
December 31, 2021 and it represents an additional source of
contingent liquidity.

sources of

funding for

Non-Banking Subsidiaries
the non-banking
The principal
subsidiaries include internally generated cash flows from
operations, loan sales, repurchase agreements, capital injections
and borrowed funds from their direct parent companies or the
the
holding companies. The principal uses of
non-banking subsidiaries include repayment of maturing debt,
operational expenses and payment of dividends to the BHCs.
The liquidity needs of the non-banking subsidiaries are minimal
since most of them are funded internally from operating cash
flows or from intercompany borrowings or capital contributions
from their holding companies. Popular,
Inc. made capital
contributions to its wholly owned subsidiary Popular Securities
amounting to $9 million during the year 2021 and $10 million
on February 24, 2022.

funds for

Dividends
During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation
declared cash dividend of $1.75 per common share outstanding
$ 142.3 million in the aggregate. The dividends for the
Corporation’s
to
$1.4 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the
BHC’s received dividends amounting to $761 million from

Series A preferred

amounted

stock

Other Funding Sources and Capital
The debt securities portfolio provides an additional source of
liquidity, which may be realized through either securities sales
or repurchase agreements. The Corporation’s debt securities
portfolio consists primarily of liquid U.S. government debt
securities, U.S. government sponsored agency debt securities,
U.S. government sponsored agency mortgage-backed securities,
and U.S. government sponsored agency collateralized mortgage
obligations that can be used to raise funds in the repo markets.
The availability of the repurchase agreement would be subject
to having sufficient unpledged collateral available at the time
the transactions are to be consummated, in addition to overall
liquidity and risk appetite of the various counterparties. The
Corporation’s
to
debt
$3.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and $3.4 billion at
December 31, 2020. A substantial portion of
these debt
securities could be used to raise financing in the U.S. money
markets or from secured lending sources.

unpledged

amounted

securities

Additional

liquidity may be provided through loan
maturities, prepayments and sales. The loan portfolio can also
be used to obtain funding in the capital markets. In particular,
mortgage loans and some types of consumer loans, have
secondary markets which the Corporation could use.

the

financial needs of

Off-Balance Sheet arrangements and other commitments
In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation engages in
financial transactions that are not recorded on the balance sheet
or may be recorded on the balance sheet in amounts that are
different than the full contract or notional amount of the
transaction. As a provider of financial services, the Corporation
routinely enters into commitments with off-balance sheet risk
to meet
customers. These
commitments may include loan commitments and standby
letters of credit. These commitments are subject to the same
credit policies and approval process used for on-balance sheet
instruments. These instruments involve, to varying degrees,
elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount
financial position. Refer to
recognized in the statement of
Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for
information on the Corporation’s commitments to extent credit
and other non-credit commitments.

its

the
Other types of off-balance sheet arrangements that
Corporation enters in the ordinary course of business include
derivatives, operating leases and provision of guarantees,
indemnifications, and representation and warranties. Refer to
Note 33 for information on operating leases and to Note 23 for
a detailed discussion related to the Corporation’s obligations

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

31

under credit
arrangements.

recourse and representation and warranties

The Corporation monitors its cash requirements, including
its contractual obligations and debt commitments. As discussed
above, liquidity is managed by the Corporation in order to meet
its short- and long-term cash obligations. Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements has information on the
Corporation’s borrowings by maturity, which amounted to
$1.2 billion at December 31, 2021.

Financial information of guarantor and issuers of registered
guaranteed securities
The Corporation (not including any of its subsidiaries, “PIHC”)
is the parent holding company of Popular North America
“PNA” and has other subsidiaries through which it conducts its
financial services operations. PNA is an operating, 100%
subsidiary of Popular, Inc. Holding Company (“PIHC”) and is
the holding company of its wholly-owned subsidiaries: Equity
One, Inc. and PB, including PB’s wholly-owned subsidiaries
Popular Equipment Finance, LLC, Popular Insurance Agency,
U.S.A., and E-LOAN, Inc.

PNA has issued junior subordinated debentures guaranteed
by PIHC (together with PNA, the “obligor group”) purchased
by statutory trusts established by the Corporation. These
debentures were purchased by the statutory trust using the
proceeds from trust preferred securities issued to the public
(referred to as “capital securities”), together with the proceeds
of the related issuances of common securities of the trusts.

PIHC fully and unconditionally guarantees

the junior
subordinated debentures issued by PNA. PIHC’s obligation to
make a guarantee payment may be satisfied by direct payment
of the required amounts to the holders of the applicable capital
securities or by causing the applicable trust
to pay such
amounts to such holders. Each guarantee does not apply to any
payment of distributions by the applicable trust except to the
extent such trust has funds available for such payments. If
PIHC does not make interest payments on the debentures held
by such trust, such trust will not pay distributions on the
applicable capital securities and will not have funds available
junior
for
subordinated debentures is unsecured and ranks subordinate
and junior in right of payment to all the PIHC’s other liabilities
in the same manner as the applicable debentures as set forth in
the applicable indentures; and equally with all other guarantees
that the PIHC issues. The guarantee constitutes a guarantee of
payment and not of collection, which means
the
guaranteed party may sue the guarantor to enforce its rights
under the respective guarantee without suing any other person
or entity.

such payments. PIHC’s guarantee of PNA’s

that

32

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

received

dividends

from their

The principal sources of funding for PIHC and PNA have
and
included
non-banking subsidiaries, asset sales and proceeds from the
issuance of debt and equity. As further described below, in the
Risk to Liquidity section, various statutory provisions limit the
amount of dividends an insured depository institution may pay
to its holding company without regulatory approval.

banking

The following summarized financial information presents
the financial position of the obligor group, on a combined basis
at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, and the results
of their operations for the period ended December 31, 2021 and
December 31, 2020. Investments in and equity in the earnings
from the other subsidiaries and affiliates that are not members
of the obligor group have been excluded.

The summarized financial information of the obligor group
is presented on a combined basis with intercompany balances
and transactions between entities
in the obligor group
eliminated. The obligor group’s amounts due from, amounts
due to and transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates have
been presented in separate line items, if they are material. In
addition, related parties transactions are presented separately.

Table 18 - Summarized Statement of Condition

December 31,
2021

December 31,
2020

$291,540

$ 190,830

25,691

17,634

29,349

114,955
42,251

27,630

16,338

31,162

88,272
46,547

$521,420

$ 400,779

(In thousands)

Assets
Cash and money market

investments

Investment securities
Accounts receivables from
non-obligor subsidiaries

Other loans (net of allowance for

credit losses of $96
(2020 - $311))

Investment in equity method

investees
Other assets

Total assets

Liabilities and Stockholders’

deficit

Accounts payable to non-obligor

subsidiaries

$ 6,481

$

3,946

Accounts payable to affiliates and

related parties

Notes payable
Other liabilities
Stockholders’ deficit

1,254
496,134
97,172
(79,621)

977
681,503
79,208
(364,855)

Total liabilities and stockholders’

deficit

$521,420

$ 400,779

Table 19 - Summarized Statement of Operations

(In thousands)

Income:
Dividends from non-obligor

subsidiaries

Interest income from non-obligor

subsidiaries and affiliates
Earnings from investments in
equity method investees

Other operating income

For the years ended

December 31,
2021

December 31,
2020

$792,000

$586,000

848

29,387
3,136

2,383

17,912
4,340

Total income

$825,371

$610,635

Expenses:
Services provided by non-obligor

subsidiaries and affiliates (net of
reimbursement by subsidiaries
for services provided by parent
of $162,019 (2020 - $138,729))

Other operating expenses

Total expenses

Net income

$ 13,594
33,524

$ 47,118

$778,253

$ 13,191
29,652

$ 42,843

$567,792

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Obligor group
recorded $3.0 million of distribution from its direct equity
method investees (2020 - $2.3 million), of which $2.3 million
are related to dividend distributions (2020 - $2.3 million).
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Obligor group
received dividend distributions from a non-obligor subsidiary
amounting $12.5 million which was recorded as a reduction to
the investment.

leverage

Risks to Liquidity
Total lines of credit outstanding are not necessarily a measure
of the total credit available on a continuing basis. Some of these
lines could be subject to collateral requirements, standards of
creditworthiness,
regulatory
requirements, among other factors. Derivatives, such as those
embedded in long-term repurchase transactions or interest rate
swaps, and off-balance sheet exposures, such as recourse,
performance bonds or credit card arrangements, are subject to
collateral
the
thereby reducing the
collateral requirements may increase,
balance of unpledged securities.

requirements. As their fair value increases,

ratios

other

and

for

The importance of

the Puerto Rico market

the
Corporation is an additional risk factor that could affect its
financing activities. In the case of a deterioration in economic
and fiscal conditions in Puerto Rico, the credit quality of the
Corporation could be affected and result in higher credit costs.
Refer to the Geographic and Government Risk section of this
MD&A for some highlights on the current status of the Puerto
Rico economy and the ongoing fiscal crisis.

Factors that the Corporation does not control, such as the
economic outlook and credit ratings of its principal markets
and regulatory changes, could also affect its ability to obtain
funding. In order to prepare for the possibility of such scenario,
management has
raising
financing under stress scenarios when important sources of
temporarily
are
fully
funds
unavailable. These plans call
for using alternate funding
mechanisms, such as the pledging of certain asset classes and
accessing secured credit lines and loan facilities put in place
with the FHLB and the FRB.

adopted contingency plans

are usually

available

that

for

The credit ratings of Popular’s debt obligations are a relevant
factor for liquidity because they impact the Corporation’s ability
to borrow in the capital markets, its cost and access to funding
sources. Credit ratings are based on the financial strength,
credit quality and concentrations in the loan portfolio, the level
and volatility of earnings, capital adequacy, the quality of
management, geographic concentration in Puerto Rico, the
liquidity of the balance sheet, the availability of a significant
base of
and the
Corporation’s ability to access a broad array of wholesale
funding sources, among other factors.

and commercial deposits,

retail

core

Furthermore, various statutory provisions limit the amount
of dividends an insured depository institution may pay to its
holding company without regulatory approval. A member bank
must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board for any
dividend, if the total of all dividends declared by the member
bank during the calendar year would exceed the total of its net
income for that year, combined with its retained net income for
the preceding two years, after considering those years’ dividend
activity, less any required transfers to surplus or to a fund for
the retirement of any preferred stock. During the year ended
December 31, 2021, BPPR declared cash dividends of
$761 million. At December 31, 2021, BPPR would have needed
to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before
declaring a dividend due to its declared dividend activity and
transfers to statutory reserves over the three year’s ended
December 31, 2021. In addition, a member bank may not
declare or pay a dividend in an amount greater than its
undivided profits as reported in its Report of Condition and
Income, unless the member bank has received the approval of
the Federal Reserve Board. A member bank also may not permit
any portion of its permanent capital to be withdrawn unless the
withdrawal has been approved by the Federal Reserve Board.
Pursuant to these requirements, PB may not declare or pay a
dividend without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board and the NYSDFS. The ability of a bank subsidiary to
up-stream dividends to its BHC could thus be impacted by its
financial performance, thus potentially limiting the amount of
cash moving up to the BHCs from the banking subsidiaries.
This could, in turn, affect the BHCs ability to declare dividends
on its outstanding common and preferred stock, for example.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

33

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries have historically not
used unsecured capital market borrowings to finance its
operations, and therefore are less sensitive to the level and
changes in the Corporation’s overall credit ratings.

Obligations Subject to Rating Triggers or Collateral
Requirements
The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries currently do not use
borrowings that are rated by the major rating agencies, as these
banking subsidiaries are funded primarily with deposits and
secured borrowings. The banking subsidiaries had $9 million in
deposits at December 31, 2021 that are subject
to rating
triggers.

In addition, certain mortgage servicing and custodial
agreements that BPPR has with third parties include rating
covenants. In the event of a credit rating downgrade, the third
parties have the right to require the institution to engage a
substitute cash custodian for escrow deposits and/or increase
levels securing the recourse obligations. Also, as
collateral
discussed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Corporation services residential mortgage loans subject to
credit recourse provisions. Certain contractual agreements
to secure such
require the Corporation to post collateral
recourse obligations if the institution’s required credit ratings
are not maintained. Collateral pledged by the Corporation to
secure
amounted to approximately
$32 million at December 31, 2021. The Corporation could be
required to post additional collateral under the agreements.
Management expects that it would be able to meet additional
collateral requirements if and when needed. The requirements
to post collateral under certain agreements or the loss of escrow
deposits could reduce the Corporation’s liquidity resources and
impact its operating results.

recourse obligations

Credit Risk
Geographic and Government Risk
The Corporation is exposed to geographic and government risk.
The Corporation’s
composition by
geographical area and by business segment reporting are
presented in Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

and revenue

assets

Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
A significant portion of our financial activities and credit
exposure is concentrated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
(the “Commonwealth” or “Puerto Rico”), which faces severe
economic and fiscal challenges.

COVID-19 Pandemic
On December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19)
surfaced in Wuhan, China and has since spread globally to
other countries and jurisdictions,
including the mainland
United States and Puerto Rico. In March 2020, the World
Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. The

34

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

pandemic has significantly disrupted and negatively impacted
the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, created
significant volatility in financial markets, and increased
unemployment levels worldwide, including in the markets in
which we do business.

in place,

to shelter

In Puerto Rico, former Governor Wanda Vázquez issued an
executive order in March 2020 declaring a health emergency,
ordering residents
implementing a
mandatory curfew, and requiring the closure of non-essential
businesses. Although the most restrictive measures have been
eased or lifted, allowing for the gradual reopening of the
economy, certain measures remain in place and additional
measures may be implemented in the future as a result of a
resurgence in the spread of the virus or new strains of the virus.
Since the beginning of the pandemic, most businesses have had
to make significant adjustments to protect customers and
employees, including transitioning to telework and suspending
or modifying certain operations in compliance with health and
safety guidelines. The Puerto Rico Legislative Assembly enacted
legislation in April 2020 requiring financial institutions to offer
moratoriums on consumer
to clients
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which was effective
through August 2020. The Federal Government has also
approved several economic stimulus measures that seek to
cushion the economic fallout of
including
providing direct
subsidies, expanding eligibility for and
increasing unemployment benefits and guaranteeing through
the SBA PPP loans to small and medium businesses.

financial products

the pandemic,

The COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed to
curb the spread of the disease have had and may continue to
have a material adverse effect on economic activity worldwide,
including in Puerto Rico. The extent to which the COVID-19
pandemic will continue to adversely affect economic activity
will depend on future developments, which are highly
uncertain and difficult to predict,
including the scope and
duration of the pandemic (including the appearance of new
strains of the virus), the restrictions imposed by governmental
authorities and other third parties in response to the same, the
pace of global vaccination efforts, and the amount of federal
the
and local assistance offered to offset
pandemic. Pursuant to the 2022 Fiscal Plan (as defined below),
economic stimulus measures have more than offset
the
estimated income loss due to reduced economic activity in
Puerto Rico and are estimated to have caused a temporary
increase in personal income on a net basis. However, there can
be no assurance that these measures will be sufficient to offset
the pandemic’s economic impact in the medium- and long-
term.

the impact of

Economic Performance
The Commonwealth’s economy entered a recession in the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and its gross national product
(“GNP”) contracted (in real terms) every fiscal year between

2007 and 2018, with the exception of fiscal year 2012. Pursuant
to the latest Puerto Rico Planning Board (the “Planning Board”)
estimates, dated March 2021, the Commonwealth’s real GNP
increased by 1.8% in fiscal year 2019 due to the influx of federal
funds and private insurance payments to repair damage caused
by Hurricanes Irma and María. However, the Planning Board
estimates that the Commonwealth’s real GNP decreased by
approximately 3.2% in fiscal year 2020 due primarily to the
adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures
taken by the government in response to the same. The Planning
Board projected that the negative effects of COVID-19 would
continue through fiscal year 2021, resulting in a contraction in
real GNP of approximately -2%, followed by 0.8% GNP growth
in the current fiscal year.

corporations

Fiscal Crisis
its
The Commonwealth’s central government and many of
instrumentalities, public
and municipalities
continue to face significant fiscal challenges, which have been
primarily the result of economic contraction, persistent and
significant budget deficits, a high debt burden, unfunded legacy
obligations, and lack of access to the capital markets, among
other factors. As a result, the Commonwealth and certain of its
instrumentalities have been unable to make debt service
payments on their outstanding bonds and notes since 2016. The
escalating fiscal and economic crisis and imminent widespread
defaults prompted the U.S. Congress to enact the Puerto Rico
Oversight, Management,
Stability Act
and
(“PROMESA”) in June 2016. As further discussed below under
“Pending Title III Proceedings,” the Commonwealth and
several of its instrumentalities are currently in the process of
restructuring
restructuring their debts
mechanisms provided by PROMESA.

through the debt

Economic

for

and established two mechanisms

PROMESA
things, created a seven-member
PROMESA, among other
federally-appointed oversight board (the “Oversight Board”)
with ample powers over the fiscal and economic affairs of the
Commonwealth, its public corporations, instrumentalities and
the
municipalities
restructuring of the obligations of such entities. Pursuant to
PROMESA, the Oversight Board will remain in place until
market access is restored and balanced budgets, in accordance
with modified accrual accounting, are produced for at least four
consecutive years. In August 2016, President Obama appointed
the seven original voting members of the Oversight Board
through the process established in PROMESA, which authorizes
the President to select the members from several lists required
to be submitted by congressional
In 2020, when
President Donald Trump reappointed three of the original
members and appointed four new members to the Oversight
Board.

leaders.

its public

corporations

In October 2016,

the Oversight Board designated the
and
Commonwealth and all of
instrumentalities as “covered entities” under PROMESA. The
only Commonwealth government entities that were not subject
to such initial designation were
the Commonwealth’s
municipalities. In May 2019, however, the Oversight Board
designated all of the Commonwealth’s municipalities as covered
entities. At the Oversight Board’s request, covered entities are
required to submit fiscal plans and annual budgets to the
Oversight Board for its review and approval. They are also
required to seek Oversight Board approval to issue, guarantee
or modify their debts and to enter into contracts with an
aggregate value of $10 million or more. Finally, covered entities
are potentially eligible to avail
the debt
restructuring processes provided by PROMESA. For additional
discussion of risk factors related to the Puerto Rico fiscal
challenges, see “Part I – Item 1A – Risk Factors” in this
Form 10-K.

themselves of

Fiscal Plans
Commonwealth Fiscal Plan. The Oversight Board has certified
several fiscal plans for the Commonwealth since 2017. The
most recent fiscal plan for the Commonwealth certified by the
Oversight Board is dated January 27, 2022 (the “2022 Fiscal
Plan”).

and

activity

reduced

economic

Pursuant to the 2022 Fiscal Plan, while the COVID-19
pandemic and the measures taken in response to the same
caused
severely
an
unprecedented increase in unemployment
in Puerto Rico,
pandemic-related federal and local stimulus funding have more
than offset the estimated income loss due to reduced economic
activity and are estimated to have caused a temporary increase
in personal
income on a net basis. The 2022 Fiscal Plan’s
economic projections incorporate adjustments for these short-
term income effects for purposes of estimating tax receipts. For
example, the 2022 Fiscal Plan estimates that, for fiscal years
2022 and 2023,
real GNP will grow 2.6% and 0.9%,
respectively, but projects that growth adjusted for income
effects for such years will be approximately 5.2% and 0.6%,
respectively.

The 2022 Fiscal Plan incorporates the debt service costs of
the Commonwealth’s restructured debt as contemplated by the
Plan of Adjustment (as defined and further explained below).
Therefore, it projects an unrestricted surplus after debt service
average of $1 billion annually between fiscal years 2022 to
2031. This surplus declines over time as federal disaster relief
funding slows, nominal GNP growth declines, revenues decline,
rise. The 2022 Fiscal Plan
and healthcare expenditures
estimates
fiscal measures could drive approximately
$6.3 billion in savings and extra revenue over fiscal years 2022
through 2026 and that structural
reforms could drive a
cumulative 0.90% increase in growth by fiscal year 2051 (equal
to approximately $33 billion).

that

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

35

by

approximately

the impact of

The 2022 Fiscal Plan provides for the gradual reduction and
the ultimate elimination of Commonwealth budgetary subsidies
to municipalities, which constitute a material portion of the
operating revenues of some municipalities. Since fiscal year
2017, Commonwealth appropriations to municipalities have
decreased
64% (from approximately
$370 million in fiscal year 2017 to approximately $132 million
in fiscal year 2020). In response to the COVID-19 crisis,
reductions in appropriations to municipalities were paused in
fiscal year 2021. Municipalities have also received extraordinary
appropriations and other funds from federally-funded programs
during the current fiscal year, which has helped temporarily
the reduced Commonwealth support.
offset
However,
additional
the 2022 Fiscal Plan contemplates
reductions in appropriations to municipalities starting in fiscal
year 2022, before eventually phasing out all appropriations in
fiscal year 2025. Further, while the Commonwealth had
enacted legislation in 2019 suspending the municipality’s
obligations to contribute to the Commonwealth’s health plan
and pay-as-you go retirement system, such legislation was
challenged by the Oversight Board and eventually declared null
by the Title III court in April 2020. As a result, municipalities
are required to cover their own employees’ healthcare costs and
retirement benefits and had to reimburse the Commonwealth
for such costs corresponding to the period during which the
law was in effect. Finally, the 2022 Fiscal Plan notes that
towards
municipalities have made little or no progress
implementing fiscal discipline required to reduce reliance on
Commonwealth appropriations and that
fiscal
management threatens the ability of municipalities to provide
necessary services, such as health, sanitation, public safety, and
emergency services to their residents, forcing them to prioritize
expenditures.

this lack of

electric power utility,

Other Fiscal Plans. Pursuant to PROMESA, the Oversight
Board has also requested and certified fiscal plans for several
public corporations and instrumentalities. The certified fiscal
plan for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (“PREPA”),
Puerto Rico’s
contemplated the
transformation of Puerto Rico’s electric system through, among
other things, the establishment of a public-private partnership
with respect to PREPA’s transmission and distribution system
(the “T&D System”), and calls for significant structural reforms
at PREPA. The procurement process for the establishment of a
public-private partnership with respect to the T&D System was
completed in June 2020. The selected proponent, LUMA
Energy LLC (“LUMA”), and PREPA entered into a 15-year
agreement whereby, since June 1, 2021, LUMA is responsible
for operating, maintaining and modernizing the T&D System.

On April 23, 2021, the Oversight Board certified the latest
version of the fiscal plan (the “CRIM Fiscal Plan”) for the
Municipal Revenue Collection Center
the
government entity responsible for collecting property taxes and
distributing them among the municipalities. The CRIM Fiscal

(“CRIM”),

36

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

enhancement of property tax collections,

Plan outlines a series of measures centered around improving
the competitiveness of Puerto Rico’s property tax regime and
including
the
identifying
as
improvements
and implementing
operational and technological initiatives.

and appraising new properties

to existing properties,

as well

the Oversight Board, on behalf of

Pending Title III Proceedings
On May 3, 2017,
the
Commonwealth, filed a petition in the U.S. District Court to
restructure the Commonwealth’s liabilities under Title III of
PROMESA. The Oversight Board subsequently filed analogous
petitions with respect to the Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing
Corporation (“COFINA”), the Employees Retirement System of
the Government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (“ERS”),
the Puerto Rico Highways and Transportation Authority,
PREPA and the Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority
(“PBA”). On February 12, 2019, the government completed a
to a plan of
restructuring of COFINA’s debts pursuant
adjustment confirmed by the U.S. District Court.

III

for

Joint Plan of Adjustment

On November 3, 2021, the Oversight Board filed the Eighth
Amended Title
the
Commonwealth, et. al. (the “Plan of Adjustment”) in the
pending debt restructuring proceedings under Title III of
PROMESA. The Plan of Adjustment seeks to restructure
approximately $35 billion of debt and other claims against the
the
Commonwealth, PBA and ERS.
Commonwealth’s government enacted legislation establishing
the framework for the issuance of new securities by the
Commonwealth in connection with the Plan of Adjustment. On
January 18, 2022, the U.S. District Court confirmed the Plan of
Adjustment, which is expected to become effective on or about
March 15, 2022 upon the satisfaction of certain conditions to
effectiveness.

In October 2021,

Exposure of the Corporation
The credit quality of BPPR’s loan portfolio reflects, among other
things, the general economic conditions in Puerto Rico and
other adverse conditions affecting Puerto Rico consumers and
businesses. The effects of the prolonged recession have been
reflected in limited loan demand, an increase in the rate of
foreclosures and delinquencies on loans granted in Puerto Rico.
While PROMESA provided a process
the
Commonwealth’s fiscal crisis, the complexity and uncertainty
of the Title III proceedings for the Commonwealth and various
of its instrumentalities and the adjustment measures required
by the fiscal plans still present significant economic risks. In
addition, the COVID-19 outbreak has affected many of our
individual customers and customers’ businesses. This, when
added to Puerto Rico’s ongoing fiscal crisis and recession, could
cause credit losses that adversely affect us and may negatively
affect consumer confidence, result in reductions in consumer
spending, and adversely impact our interest and non-interest

to address

revenues. If global or local economic conditions worsen or the
Government of Puerto Rico and the Oversight Board are unable
to adequately manage the Commonwealth’s fiscal and economic
challenges, including by controlling the COVID-19 pandemic
and
the
Commonwealth’s debt obligations while continuing to provide
these adverse effects could continue or
essential services,
worsen in ways that we are not able to predict.

consummating

restructuring

orderly

an

of

the

Rico

Puerto

all of

to us. Of

government’s

instrumentalities

resulting in losses

At December 31, 2021, the Corporation’s direct exposure to
the
and
municipalities totaled $367 million of which $349 million were
outstanding, compared to $377 million at December 31, 2020
which was fully outstanding on such date. Further deterioration
of the Commonwealth’s fiscal and economic situation could
the value of our Puerto Rico government
adversely affect
obligations,
amount
outstanding, $319 million consists of loans and $30 million are
securities ($342 million and $35 million, respectively, at
amount
Substantially
December 31, 2020).
outstanding at December 31, 2021 were obligations from
various Puerto Rico municipalities. In most cases, these were
“general obligations” of a municipality, to which the applicable
municipality has pledged its good faith, credit and unlimited
taxing power, or “special obligations” of a municipality, to
which the applicable municipality has pledged other revenues.
At December 31, 2021, 75% of the Corporation’s exposure to
loans and securities was concentrated in the
municipal
municipalities of San Juan, Guaynabo, Carolina and Bayamón.
On July 1, 2021, the Corporation received scheduled principal
payments amounting to $32 million from various obligations
from Puerto Rico municipalities. For additional discussion of
to the Puerto Rico
the Corporation’s direct
government and its instrumentalities and municipalities, refer
to Note 24 – Commitments and Contingencies.

exposure

the

a

is

repayment

($317 million

In addition, at December 31, 2021, the Corporation had
$275 million in loans insured or securities issued by Puerto
Rico governmental entities, but for which the principal source
of
at
non-governmental
December 31, 2020). These included $232 million in residential
mortgage loans insured by the Puerto Rico Housing Finance
Authority (“HFA”), a governmental instrumentality that has
been designated as
covered entity under PROMESA
(December 31, 2020 - $260 million). These mortgage loans are
secured by first mortgages on Puerto Rico residential properties
and the HFA insurance covers losses in the event of a borrower
default and upon the satisfaction of certain other conditions.
The Corporation also had, at December 31, 2021, $43 million
in bonds issued by HFA which are secured by second mortgage
loans on Puerto Rico residential properties, and for which HFA
also provides insurance to cover losses in the event of a
borrower default, and upon the satisfaction of certain other
conditions (December 31, 2020 - $46 million). In the event that
insured by HFA and held by the
the mortgage loans

Corporation directly or those serving as collateral for the HFA
bonds default and the collateral is insufficient to satisfy the
outstanding balance of these loans, HFA’s ability to honor its
insurance will depend, among other factors, on the financial
condition of HFA at the time such obligations become due and
payable. The Corporation does not consider the government
guarantee when estimating the credit losses associated with this
portfolio. Although the Governor is currently authorized by
legislation to impose a temporary moratorium on the
local
financial obligations of
the HFA, a moratorium on such
obligations has not been imposed as of the date hereof.

BPPR’s commercial

loan portfolio also includes loans to
private borrowers who are service providers, lessors, suppliers
or have other
relationships with the government. These
borrowers could be negatively affected by the Commonwealth’s
fiscal crisis and the ongoing Title III proceedings under
PROMESA described above. Similarly, BPPR’s mortgage and
consumer
to government
employees and retirees, which could also be negatively affected
by fiscal measures such as employee layoffs or furloughs or
reductions in pension benefits.

loan portfolios

include

loans

BPPR also has a significant amount of deposits from the
Commonwealth, its instrumentalities, and municipalities. The
amount of such deposits may fluctuate depending on the
financial condition and liquidity of such entities, as well as on
the ability of BPPR to maintain these customer relationships.

The Corporation may also have direct exposure with regards
to avoidance and other causes of action initiated by the
Oversight Board on behalf of the Commonwealth or other Title
III debtors. For
such
exposure, refer to Note 24 of
the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

information regarding

additional

United States Virgin Islands
The Corporation has operations in the United States Virgin
(the “USVI”) and has credit exposure to USVI
Islands
government entities.

the effects of

The USVI has been experiencing a number of fiscal and
economic challenges, which have been and maybe be further
the COVID-19
exacerbated as a result of
pandemic, and which could adversely affect the ability of its
public corporations and instrumentalities to service their
outstanding debt obligations. PROMESA does not apply to the
USVI and, as such, there is currently no federal legislation
permitting the restructuring of the debts of the USVI and its
public corporations and instrumentalities.

To the extent that the fiscal condition of the USVI continues
to deteriorate, the U.S. Congress or the Government of the
USVI may enact legislation allowing for the restructuring of the
financial obligations of USVI government entities or imposing a
stay on creditor remedies,
including by making PROMESA
applicable to the USVI.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

37

At December 31, 2021, the Corporation has operations in
(the “USVI”) and has
the United States Virgin Islands
approximately $70 million in direct exposure to USVI
government entities (December 31, 2020 - $105 million). The
USVI has been experiencing a number of fiscal and economic
challenges that could adversely affect the ability of its public
corporations and instrumentalities to service their outstanding
debt obligations.

British Virgin Islands
The Corporation has operations in the British Virgin Islands
(“BVI”), which has been negatively affected by the COVID-19
pandemic, particularly as a reduction in the tourism activity
which accounts for a significant portion of
its economy.
Although the Corporation has no significant exposure to a
single borrower in the BVI, at December 31, 2021 it has a loan
portfolio amounting to approximately $221 million comprised
of various retail and commercial clients, compared to a loan
portfolio of $251 million at December 31, 2020, which included
a $19 million loan with the BVI Government that was paid off
during the second quarter of 2021.

represented exposure

U.S. Government
As further detailed in Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, a substantial portion of the Corporation’s
securities
investment
to the U.S.
in the form of U.S. Government sponsored
Government
entities, as well as agency mortgage-backed and U.S. Treasury
securities. In addition, $1.6 billion of residential mortgages,
$353 million of SBA loans under the PPP and $67 million
commercial
loans were insured or guaranteed by the U.S.
Government or its agencies at December 31, 2021 (compared to
$1.8 billion, $1.3 billion and $60 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2020).

Non-Performing Assets
Non-performing assets (“NPAs”) include primarily past-due
loans that are no longer accruing interest, renegotiated loans,
and real estate property acquired through foreclosure. A
summary, including certain credit quality metrics, is presented
in Table 20.

During 2021, the Corporation continued to exhibit strong
credit quality and low credit costs, with low level of NCOs and
decreasing NPLs, outperforming pre-pandemic trends. These
improvements have been aided by the significant government
stimulus and the rebound of the economy, as well as payoffs
related to troubled loan resolutions. We continue to closely
monitor COVID-19 pandemic related risks on borrower
performance and changes in the pace of economic recovery as
new variants continue to emerge. However, management
believes that the improvement over the last few years in the risk
profile of the Corporation’s loan portfolios positions Popular to
operate successfully under the current environment.

38

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

by

31,

lower

2020.

driven

non-performing

Total NPAs decreased by $191 million when compared with
loans
Total
December
held-in-portfolio (“NPLs”) decreased by $190 million from
December 31, 2020. BPPR’s NPLs decreased by $186 million,
and
mainly
commercial, mortgage,
construction NPLs by $84 million, $80 million,
and
$21 million, respectively. The commercial and construction
NPLs decrease reflects payoffs
related to troubled loan
resolutions, and loans that were returned to accrual status
during the period. The mortgage NPLs decrease was mainly due
increased
to the combined effects of collection efforts,
foreclosure activity and the on-going low levels of early
delinquency compared with pre-pandemic trends. Popular U.S.
NPLs decreased by $4 million from December 31, 2020, mostly
related to a $7 million construction loan sold and lower
consumer NPLs by $3 million, in part offset by mortgage NPLs
increase by $7 million, mostly driven by loans that did not
resume payment at the end of the COVID-related deferral
period. At December 31, 2021, the ratio of NPLs to total loans
held-in-portfolio was 1.9% compared to 2.5% in the fourth
quarter of 2020. Other real estate owned loans (“OREOs”)
increased by $2 million, mostly related to end of the foreclosure
moratorium period.

At December 31, 2021, NPLs secured by real estate
amounted to $428 million in the Puerto Rico operations and
$31 million in Popular U.S. These figures were $630 million
and $34 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020.

The Corporation’s commercial loan portfolio secured by real
estate (“CRE”) amounted to $8.4 billion at December 31, 2021,
of which $1.8 billion was secured with owner occupied
properties, compared with $7.8 billion and $1.9 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2020. CRE NPLs amounted to
$77 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $173 million
at December 31, 2020. The CRE NPL ratios for the BPPR and
Popular U.S. segments were 1.95% and 0.04%, respectively, at
December 31, 2021, compared with 4.51% and 0.07%,
respectively, at December 31, 2020.
In addition to the NPLs

included in Table 20, at
December 31, 2021, there were $214 million of performing
loans, which in management’s
loans, mostly commercial
opinion, are currently subject to potential future classification
as non-performing (December 31, 2020 - $228 million).

For the year ended December 31, 2021, total inflows of
NPLs held-in-portfolio, excluding consumer loans, decreased
by approximately $132 million, when compared to the inflows
for the same period in 2020. Inflows of NPLs held-in-portfolio
at the BPPR segment decreased by $129 million compared to
the same period in 2020, driven by lower mortgage inflows by
$114 million. Inflows of NPLs held-in-portfolio at the Popular
U.S. segment decreased by $3 million from the same period in
2020.

Table 20 - Non-Performing Assets

(Dollars in thousands)

Non-accrual loans:
Commercial
Construction
Leasing
Mortgage
Auto
Consumer

Total non-performing loans held-in-portfolio
Non-performing loans held-for-sale [1]
Other real estate owned (“OREO”)

Total non-performing assets

December 31, 2021
Popular
U.S.

Popular,
Inc.

BPPR

December 31, 2020
Popular
U.S.

Popular,
Inc.

BPPR

$120,047
485
3,102
333,887
23,085
33,683

514,289
–
83,618

$ 5,532
–
–
21,969
–
6,087

33,588
–
1,459

$125,579
485
3,102
355,856
23,085
39,770

547,877
–
85,077

$ 204,092
21,497
3,441
414,343
15,736
41,268

700,377
–
81,512

$ 5,988
7,560
–
14,864
–
8,985

37,397
2,738
1,634

$ 210,080
29,057
3,441
429,207
15,736
50,253

737,774
2,738
83,146

$597,907

$35,047

$632,954

$ 781,889

$41,769

$ 823,658

Accruing loans past-due 90 days or more [2]

$480,649

$

118

$480,767

$1,028,061

$

3

$1,028,064

Non-performing loans to loans held-in-portfolio
Interest lost

1.87%

$ 38,123

2.51%

$

45,040

[1] There were no non-performing loans held-for-sale as of December 31, 2021 (December 31, 2020 - $3 million in commercial loans).
[2]

It is the Corporation’s policy to report delinquent residential mortgage loans insured by FHA or guaranteed by the VA as accruing loans past due 90 days or more
as opposed to non-performing since the principal repayment is insured. The balance of these loans includes $13 million at December 31, 2021 related to the
rebooking of loans previously pooled into GNMA securities, in which the Corporation had a buy-back option as further described below (December 31, 2020 - $57
million). Under the GNMA program, issuers such as BPPR have the option but not the obligation to repurchase loans that are 90 days or more past due. For
accounting purposes, these loans subject to the repurchase option are required to be reflected (rebooked) on the financial statements of BPPR with an offsetting
liability. These balances include $304 million of residential mortgage loans insured by FHA or guaranteed by the VA that are no longer accruing interest as of
December 31, 2021 (December 31, 2020 - $329 million). Furthermore, the Corporation has approximately $50 million in reverse mortgage loans which are
guaranteed by FHA, but which are currently not accruing interest. Due to the guaranteed nature of the loans, it is the Corporation’s policy to exclude these
balances from non-performing assets (December 31, 2020 - $60 million).

Table 21 - Activity in Non-Performing Loans Held-in-Portfolio (Excluding Consumer Loans)

(In thousands)

Beginning balance
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections
Loans transferred to held-for-sale

Ending balance NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2021
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$ 639,932

$ 28,412

$ 668,344

234,258
–

(34,419)
(35,963)
(349,389)
–

51,494
84

–
(1,592)
(42,124)
(8,773)

285,752
84

(34,419)
(37,555)
(391,513)
(8,773)

$ 454,419

$ 27,501

$ 481,920

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

39

Table 22 - Activity in Non-Performing Loans Held-in-Portfolio (Excluding Consumer Loans)

For the year ended December 31, 2020
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$ 431,082
245,703

$ 16,621
18,547

$ 447,703
264,250

362,786
–

(11,762)
(44,675)
(343,202)
–

54,092
825

–
(3,204)
(47,790)
(10,679)

416,878
825

(11,762)
(47,879)
(390,992)
(10,679)

$ 639,932

$ 28,412

$ 668,344

For the year ended December 31, 2021
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$ 204,092

$ 5,988

$ 210,080

57,132
–

(9,261)
(14,935)
(116,981)
–

13,510
52

–
(1,042)
(11,203)
(1,773)

70,642
52

(9,261)
(15,977)
(128,184)
(1,773)

$ 120,047

$ 5,532

$ 125,579

For the year ended December 31, 2020
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$147,255
112,517

50,834
–

(2,304)
(23,755)
(80,455)
–

5,504
18,547

15,496
633

–
(1,646)
(21,867)
(10,679)

$ 152,759
131,064

66,330
633

(2,304)
(25,401)
(102,322)
(10,679)

$204,092

$ 5,988

$ 210,080

(In thousands)

Beginning balance
Transition of PCI to PCD loans under CECL
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections
Loans transferred to held-for-sale

Ending balance NPLs

Table 23 - Activity in Non-Performing Commercial Loans Held-In-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections
Loans transferred to held-for-sale

Ending balance - NPLs

Table 24 - Activity in Non-Performing Commercial Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Transition of PCI to PCD loans under CECL
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections
Loans transferred to held-for-sale

Ending balance - NPLs

40

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

Table 25 - Activity in Non-Performing Construction Loans Held-In-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Plus:

New non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections
Loans in accrual status transfer to held-for-sale

Ending balance - NPLs

Table 26 - Activity in Non-Performing Construction Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Plus:

New non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

Table 27 - Activity in Non-Performing Mortgage Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

Table 28 - Activity in Non-Performing Mortgage Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs
Transition of PCI to PCD loans under CECL
Plus:

New non-performing loans
Advances on existing non-performing loans

Less:

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO
Non-performing loans charged-off
Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2021
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$ 21,497

$ 7,560

$ 29,057

481

12,141

12,622

(6,620)
(14,873)
–

(523)
(12,178)
(7,000)

(7,143)
(27,051)
(7,000)

$

485

$

–

$

485

For the year ended December 31, 2020
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$

119

$

26

$

145

21,514

9,069

30,583

–
(136)

(1,509)
(26)

(1,509)
(162)

$21,497

$ 7,560

$29,057

For the year ended December 31, 2021
Popular U.S. Popular, Inc.
BPPR

$ 414,343

$ 14,864

$ 429,207

176,645
–

(25,158)
(14,408)
(217,535)

25,843
32

–
(27)
(18,743)

202,488
32

(25,158)
(14,435)
(236,278)

$ 333,887

$ 21,969

$ 355,856

For the year ended December 31, 2020
BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$ 283,708
133,186

$ 11,091
–

$ 294,799
133,186

290,438
–

(9,458)
(20,920)
(262,611)

29,527
192

–
(49)
(25,897)

319,965
192

(9,458)
(20,969)
(288,508)

$ 414,343

$ 14,864

$ 429,207

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

41

Loan Delinquencies
Another key measure used to evaluate and monitor the Corporation’s asset quality is loan delinquencies. Loans delinquent 30 days
or more and delinquencies, as a percentage of their related portfolio category at December 31, 2021 and 2020, are presented below.

Table 29 - Loan Delinquencies

(Dollars in thousands)

2021

Commercial
Construction
Leasing
Mortgage [1]
Consumer
Loans held-for-sale

Total

Loans delinquent
30 days or more

$ 161,251
485
14,379
1,141,082
173,896
–

$1,491,093

Total loans

$13,732,701
716,220
1,381,319
7,427,196
5,983,121
59,168

$29,299,725

Total
delinquencies as a
percentage of total
loans

Loans delinquent
30 days or more

1.17%
0.07
1.04
15.36
2.91
–

5.09%

$ 249,484
50,369
14,009
1,775,902
179,789
3,108

$2,272,661

2020

Total loans

$13,614,310
926,208
1,197,661
7,890,680
5,756,337
99,455

$29,484,651

Total
delinquencies as a
percentage of total
loans

1.83%
5.44
1.17
22.51
3.12
3.13

7.71%

[1]

Loans delinquent 30 days or more includes $0.6 billion of residential mortgage loans insured by FHA or guaranteed by the VA as of December 31, 2021
(December 31, 2020 - $1.1 billion). Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of guaranteed loans.

Allowance for Credit Losses (“ACL”)
The Corporation adopted the new CECL accounting standard
effective on January 1, 2020. The allowance for credit losses
(“ACL”), represents management’s estimate of expected credit
losses through the remaining contractual life of the different
loan segments, impacted by expected prepayments. The ACL is
maintained at a sufficient level to provide for estimated credit
losses on collateral dependent loans as well as troubled debt
the loan
restructurings separately from the remainder of
portfolio. The Corporation’s management
the
adequacy of the ACL on a quarterly basis. In this evaluation,
management considers current conditions, macroeconomic
economic expectations through a reasonable and supportable
period, historical loss experience, portfolio composition by loan
type and risk characteristics, results of periodic credit reviews
of individual loans, and regulatory requirements, amongst other
factors.

evaluates

lifetime

The Corporation must

rely on estimates and exercise
judgment regarding matters where the ultimate outcome is
unknown, such as economic developments affecting specific
customers, industries, or markets. Other factors that can affect
management’s estimates are recalibration of statistical models
in
used to calculate
underwriting standards,
financial accounting standards and
loan impairment measurements, among others. Changes in the
financial condition of
in economic
conditions, and in the condition of the various markets in
which collateral may be sold, may also affect the required level
of the allowance for credit losses. Consequently, the business
financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations
could also be affected.

individual borrowers,

expected losses,

changes

At December 31, 2021,

the allowance for credit

losses
amounted to $695 million, a decrease of $201 million, when
compared with December 31, 2020, mainly prompted by
improvements
in credit quality and the macroeconomic
outlook. Since the December 31, 2020, scenarios, updated
economic assumptions have included a more optimistic view of
the economy, prompting substantial reductions in reserves
across different portfolios, also contributing to lower qualitative
reserves. Given that any one economic outlook is inherently
uncertain,
the Corporation leverages multiple scenarios to
estimate its ACL. The baseline scenario continues to be
assigned the highest probability, followed by the pessimistic
scenario. During the fourth quarter of 2021, in response to
recent events that impacted both epidemiological and fiscal
assumptions, the weight assigned to the pessimistic scenario
was increased, contributing to an increase of approximately
$13 million in reserves.

The ACL for BPPR decreased by $146 million to $594 million,
when compared to December 31, 2020. The ACL for Popular U.S.
decreased by $55 million to $101 million, when compared to
December 31, 2020. The decrease in ACL was mainly driven by
continued borrower performance and improvements in the
macroeconomic outlook, coupled with releases of qualitative
reserves. The current baseline forecast continues to show a
favorable economic scenario. The 2022 expected GDP growth rate
for Puerto Rico is approximately 4%, with the unemployment rate
expected to average around 7.4% for the year. In the case of the
United States, the baseline scenario expects GDP growth for 2022
of approximately 4.6%, with unemployment rate expected to
average around 3.7%. For 2023 both regions expect GDP growth
with average unemployment rate levels remaining stable in
comparison to 2022.

42

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

for

losses

The provision for credit

the year ended
December 31, 2021, amounted to a benefit of $183.3 million, a
favorable variance of $465.7 million from the same period in
the prior year, mainly driven by the
abovementioned
improvements
in credit quality and the macroeconomic
outlook, and lower NCOs. Refer to Note 9 – Allowance for

credit losses – loans held-in-portfolio, and to the Provision for
Credit Losses section of this MD&A for additional information.
The following table presents net charge-offs to average loans
held-in-portfolio (“HIP”) ratios by loan category for the years
ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

Table 30 - Net Charge-Offs (Recoveries) to Average Loans HIP

Commercial
Construction
Mortgage
Leasing
Consumer

Total

December 31, 2021
Popular
U.S.

Popular
Inc.

BPPR

December 31, 2020
Popular
U.S.

Popular
Inc.

BPPR

(0.24)% (0.02)% (0.15)% 0.21% (0.04)% 0.11%
1.27
0.04
0.11
0.58

(0.07)
0.27
0.66
2.48

(0.02)
–
–
0.99

(0.57)
0.32
0.66
2.44

0.04
–
–
3.07

0.19
0.04
0.11
0.60

0.09% 0.01%

0.07% 0.85% 0.13%

0.66%

NCOs for the year ended December 31, 2021 amounted to
$20.7 million, decreasing by $165.7 million when compared to
the same period in 2020. The BPPR segment decreased by
$156.9 million mainly driven by lower consumer, commercial,
and mortgage NCOs by $101.5 million, $35.2 million and
$16.9 million, respectively. The PB segment decreased by

8.8 million, mainly driven by lower consumer NCOs by
$9.4 million. The decrease in NCOs was due to the effect of a
favorable economic environment and continued borrower
reflected in the ongoing low level of
performance, as
delinquencies and NPLs when compared to pre-pandemic
trends.

Table 31 - Allowance for Credit Losses - Loan Portfolios

(Dollars in thousands)

Commercial Construction Mortgage

Leasing

Consumer

Total

December 31, 2021

Total ACL
Total loans held-in-portfolio
ACL to loans held-in-portfolio
Total Non-performing loans held-in-portfolio
ACL to non-performing loans held-in-portfolio

N.M. - Not meaningful.

$
215,805
$13,732,701

$ 6,363
$716,220

$ 154,478
$7,427,196

$
17,578
$1,381,319

$ 301,142
$5,983,121

$
695,366
$29,240,557

$

1.57%

125,579
171.85%

$

0.89%
485
N.M.

2.08%

$ 355,856

$

43.41%

1.27%
3,102
566.67%

$

5.03%

$

62,855
479.11%

2.38%

547,877
126.92%

Table 32 - Allowance for Credit Losses - Loan Portfolios

December 31, 2020

(Dollars in thousands)

Commercial Construction Mortgage

Leasing

Consumer

Total

Total ACL
Total loans held-in-portfolio
ACL to loans held-in-portfolio
Total Non-performing loans held-in-portfolio
ACL to non-performing loans held-in-portfolio

$
333,380
$13,614,310

$ 14,237
$926,208

$ 215,716
$7,890,680

$
16,863
$1,197,661

$ 316,054
$5,756,337

$
896,250
$29,385,196

$

2.45%

210,080
158.69%

1.54%

2.73%

$ 29,057

$ 429,207

$

49.00%

50.26%

1.41%
3,441
490.06%

$

5.49%

$

65,989
478.95%

3.05%

737,774
121.48%

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

43

Table 33 details the breakdown of the allowance for credit losses by loan categories. The breakdown is made for analytical

purposes, and it is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future loan losses may occur.

Table 33 - Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses - Loans

At December 31,

(Dollars in millions)

Commercial
Construction
Mortgage
Leasing
Consumer

Total [1]

[1] Note: For purposes of this table the term loans refers to loans held-in-portfolio excluding loans held-for-sale.

2021

2020

% of
loans in
each
category
to total
loans

ACL

47.0% $333.4
14.3
2.4
215.7
25.4
16.9
4.7
316.0
20.5

% of
loans in
each
category
to total
loans

46.3%
3.2
26.8
4.1
19.6

100.0% $896.3

100.0%

ACL

$215.8
6.4
154.5
17.6
301.1

$695.4

Troubled debt restructurings
The Corporation’s troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) loans
amounted to $1.7 billion at December 31, 2021, decreasing by
$12 million, from December 31, 2020. A total of $716 million of
these TDRs are related to guaranteed loans, which are in
accruing status. TDRs in the BPPR segment amounted to
$1.6 billion, a decrease of $9 million, mostly related to a
combined decrease of $58 million in the commercial and
construction TDRs and lower consumer TDRs by $11 million, in
part offset by higher mortgage TDRs by $61 million, of which
$61 million were related to government guaranteed loans. The
Popular U.S. segment TDRs have remained essentially flat since
December 31, 2020. TDRs in accruing status increased by
$74 million from December 31, 2020, mostly related to an
increase of $83 million in BPPR’s mortgage TDRs, in part offset
by a decrease of $10 million in BPPR’s consumer TDRs, while
non-accruing TDRs decreased by $86 million, of which
$60 million were related to commercial and construction TDRs.
Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional
information on modifications considered TDRs,
including certain qualitative and quantitative data about TDRs
performed in the past twelve months.

Enterprise Risk Management
The Corporation’s Board of Directors has established a Risk
Management Committee (“RMC”) to, among other things,
assist the Board in its (i) oversight of the Corporation’s overall
risk framework and (ii) to monitor, review, and approve
policies to measure, limit and manage the Corporation’s risks.

The Corporation has established a three lines of defense
framework: (a) business line management constitutes the first
line of defense by identifying and managing the risks associated

44

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

activities,

components of

with business
the Risk
(b)
Management Group and the Corporate Security Group, among
others, act as the second line of defense by, among other things,
measuring and reporting on the Corporation’s risk activities,
and (c) the Corporate Auditing Division, as the third line of
defense, reporting directly to the Audit Committee of the
Board, by independently providing assurance regarding the
effectiveness of the risk framework.

(“ERM”)

framework,

The Enterprise Risk Management Committee (the “ERM
Committee”) is a management committee whose purpose is to:
(a) monitor the principal risks as defined in the Risk Appetite
Statement (“RAS”) of the Risk Management Policy affecting our
and within the Corporation’s Enterprise Risk
business
Management
review key risk
(b)
the business level
indicators and related developments at
consistent with the RAS, and (c) lead the incorporation of a
uniform Governance, Risk and Compliance framework across
the Corporation. The ERM Committee and the Market Risk &
ERM Unit in the Financial and Operational Risk Management
Division (the “FORM Division”), in coordination with the Chief
Risk Officer, create the framework to identify and manage
multiple and cross-enterprise risks, and to articulate the RAS
risk management program
and supporting metrics. Our
monitors the following principal risks: credit,
interest rate,
market, liquidity, operational, cyber and information security,
legal, regulatory affairs, regulatory and financial compliance,
BSA/ AML & sanctions, strategic and reputational.

The Market Risk & ERM Unit has established a process to
ensure that an appropriate standard readiness assessment is
performed before we launch a new product or service. Similar
procedures are followed with the Treasury Division for
transactions involving the purchase and sale of assets, and by

the Mergers
transactions.

and Acquisitions Division for

acquisition

The Asset/Liability Committee (“ALCO”), composed of
senior management representatives from the business lines and
corporate functions, and the Corporate Finance Group, are
responsible for planning and executing the Corporation’s
market, interest rate risk, funding activities and strategy, as well
as for implementing approved policies and procedures. The
ALCO also reviews the Corporation’s capital policy and the
attainment of the capital management objectives. In addition,
the Market Risk Unit independently measures, monitors and
reports compliance with liquidity and market risk policies, and
oversees controls surrounding interest risk measurements.

The Corporate Compliance Committee, comprised of senior
team members and representatives from the
management
Regulatory and Financial Compliance Division, the Financial
Crimes Compliance Division and the Corporate Risk Services
Division, among others, are responsible for overseeing and
assessing the adequacy of the risk management processes that
underlie Popular’s
identifying,
assessing, measuring, monitoring,
testing, mitigating, and
reporting compliance risks. They also supervise Popular’s
reporting obligations under the compliance program so as to
ensure the adequacy, consistency and timeliness of
the
reporting of compliance-related risks across the Corporation.

compliance program for

The Regulatory Affairs team is responsible for maintaining
an open dialog with the banking regulatory agencies in order to
ensure regulatory risks are properly identified, measured,
monitored, as well as communicated to the appropriate
regulatory agency as necessary to keep them apprised of
material matters within the purview of these agencies.

functions,

representatives
and

The Credit Strategy Committee, composed of senior level
from the business
lines and
management
corporate
the Corporate Credit Risk
Management Division, are responsible for managing the
Corporation’s overall credit exposure by establishing policies,
standards and guidelines that define, quantify and monitor
credit risk and assessing the adequacy of the allowance for
credit losses.

The Corporation’s Operational Risk Committee (“ORCO”)
and the Cyber Security Committee, which are composed of
senior level management representatives from the business lines
and corporate functions, provide executive oversight
to
facilitate consistency of effective policies, best practices,
controls and monitoring tools for managing and assessing all
types of operational risks across the Corporation. The FORM
Division, within the Risk Management Group, serves as
ORCO’s operating arm and is responsible for establishing
baseline processes to measure, monitor,
limit and manage
operational risk.

The Corporate Security Group (“CSG”), under the direction
of the Chief Security Officer, leads all efforts pertaining to
cybersecurity, enterprise fraud and data privacy,
including
developing strategies and oversight processes with policies and
strategic,
that mitigate compliance, operational,
programs
financial
the
and
Corporation’s and our customers’ data and assets. The CSG also
leads the Cyber Security Committee.
The Corporate Legal Division,

in this context, has the
responsibility of assessing, monitoring, managing and reporting
with respect to legal risks, including those related to litigation,
investigations and other material legal matters.

associated with

reputational

risks

The Corporation has also established an Environmental,
Social and Governance (“ESG”) Committee whose purpose and
responsibility is to oversee the Corporation’s ESG strategies and
support the development and consistent application of policies,
processes and procedures that measure, limit and manage ESG
matters and risks.

The processes of strategic risk planning and the evaluation
of reputational risk are on-going processes through which
continuous data gathering and analysis are performed. In order
to ensure strategic risks are properly identified and monitored,
the Corporate Strategic Planning Division performs periodic
assessments regarding corporate strategic priority initiatives as
well as emerging issues. The Acquisitions and Corporate
Investments Division continuously assesses potential strategic
transactions. The Corporate Communications Division is
responsible
and
implementation of action plans with respect to reputational risk
issues.

the monitoring, management

for

capital

process

planning

Popular’s

integrates

the
Corporation’s risk profile as well as its strategic focus, operating
environment, and other factors that could materially affect
capital adequacy in hypothetical highly-stressed business
scenarios. Capital
into
consideration the different risks evaluated under Popular’s risk
management framework.

ratio targets

and triggers

take

In addition to establishing a formal process to manage risk,
to an effective risk
our corporate culture is also critical
management
the
Corporation provides a framework for all our employees to
conduct themselves with the highest integrity.

function. Through our Code of Ethics,

ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND
ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS

Refer to Note 3, “New Accounting Pronouncements” to the

Consolidated Financial Statements.

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

45

Statistical Summary 2020-2021
Statements of Financial Condition

(In thousands)

Assets:
Cash and due from banks

Money market investments:

Time deposits with other banks

Total money market investments

Trading account debt securities, at fair value
Debt securities available-for-sale, at fair value
Debt securities held-to-maturity, at amortized cost

Less – Allowance for credit losses

Debt securities held-to-maturity, net
Equity securities
Loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or fair value

Loans held-in-portfolio:

Loans held-in-portfolio
Less – Unearned income

Allowance for credit losses

Total loans held-in-portfolio, net

Premises and equipment, net
Other real estate
Accrued income receivable
Mortgage servicing rights, at fair value
Other assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets

Total assets

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Liabilities:
Deposits:

Non-interest bearing
Interest bearing

Total deposits

Assets sold under agreements to repurchase
Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable
Other liabilities

Total liabilities

Stockholders’ equity:
Preferred stock
Common stock
Surplus
Retained earnings
Treasury stock – at cost
Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax

Total stockholders’ equity

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

46

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

At December 31,
2020
2021

$

428,433

$

491,065

17,536,719

11,640,880

17,536,719

11,640,880

29,711
24,968,269
79,461
8,096

71,365
189,977
59,168

36,674
21,561,152
92,621
10,261

82,360
173,737
99,455

29,506,225
265,668
695,366

29,588,430
203,234
896,250

28,545,191

28,488,946

494,240
85,077
203,096
121,570
1,628,571
720,293
16,219

510,241
83,146
209,320
118,395
1,737,041
671,122
22,466

$75,097,899

$65,926,000

$15,684,482
51,320,606

$13,128,699
43,737,641

67,005,088

56,866,340

91,603
75,000
988,563
968,248

121,303
–
1,224,981
1,684,689

69,128,502

59,897,313

22,143
1,046
4,650,182
2,973,745
(1,352,650)
(325,069)

22,143
1,045
4,571,534
2,260,928
(1,016,954)
189,991

5,969,397

6,028,687

$75,097,899

$65,926,000

Statistical Summary 2019-2021
Statements of Operations

(In thousands)

Interest income:
Loans
Money market investments
Investment securities

Total interest income
Less - Interest expense

Net interest income
Provision for credit losses (benefit)

Net interest income after provision for credit losses (benefit)

Mortgage banking activities
Net gain (loss) on sale of debt securities
Net gain, including impairment on equity securities
Net (loss) profit on trading account debt securities
Net (loss) gain on sale of loans, including valuation adjustments on loans held-for-sale
Adjustment (expense) to indemnity reserves on loans sold
Other non-interest income

Total non-interest income

Operating expenses:
Personnel costs
All other operating expenses

Total operating expenses

Income before income tax
Income tax expense

Net Income

Net Income Applicable to Common Stock

For the years ended December 31,
2019
2020
2021

$1,747,827
21,147
353,663

$1,742,390
19,721
329,440

$1,802,968
89,823
368,002

2,122,637
165,047

1,957,590
(193,464)

2,091,551
234,938

1,856,613
292,536

2,260,793
369,099

1,891,694
165,779

2,151,054

1,564,077

1,725,915

50,133
23
131
(389)
(73)
4,406
587,897

642,128

10,401
41
6,279
1,033
1,234
390
492,934

512,312

32,093
(20)
2,506
994
–
(343)
534,653

569,883

631,802
917,473

564,205
893,624

590,625
886,857

1,549,275

1,457,829

1,477,482

1,243,907
309,018

618,560
111,938

818,316
147,181

$ 934,889

$ 506,622

$ 671,135

$ 933,477

$ 504,864

$ 667,412

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

47

(Dollars in thousands)
Assets
Interest earning assets:
Money market investments
U.S. Treasury securities
Obligations of U.S. Government

sponsored entities

Obligations of Puerto Rico, States and

political subdivisions

Collateralized mortgage obligations and

mortgage-backed securities

Other

Total investment securities

Trading account securities
Loans (net of unearned income)
Total interest earning assets/Interest

income
Total non-interest earning assets

Total assets
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Interest bearing liabilities:
Savings, NOW, money market and
other interest bearing demand
accounts
Time deposits
Federal funds purchased
Securities purchased under agreement

to resell

Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable

Total interest bearing liabilities/

Interest expense

Total non-interest bearing liabilities

Total liabilities
Stockholders’ equity

Statistical Summary 2019-2021
Average Balance Sheet and Summary of Net Interest Income
On a Taxable Equivalent Basis*

2021

2020

2019

Average
Balance

Interest

Average
Rate

Average
Balance

Interest

Average
Rate

Average
Balance

Interest

Average
Rate

$15,999,741 $
12,396,773

21,147
266,670

0.13% $ 8,597,652 $
2.16

12,107,819

19,723 0.23% $ 4,166,293 $
257,308 2.13

9,823,518

89,824 2.16%
302,025 3.07

7,972

120

1.50

70,424

2,818 4.00

234,553

5,911 2.52

75,607

7,608 10.06

82,051

5,705 6.95

93,313

6,394 6.85

10,255,525
194,640
22,930,517
84,380

224,706
9,027
508,131
4,339
29,074,045 1,794,789

2.19
4.64
2.22
5.16
6.19

6,913,416
178,818
19,352,528
69,446

194,794 2.82
7,369 4.12
467,994 2.42
4,165 6.00
28,384,981 1,785,022 6.29

5,582,051
171,223
15,904,658
67,596

178,964 3.21
8,487 4.96
501,781 3.15
5,103 7.55
26,806,368 1,850,894 6.90

$68,088,683 $2,328,406

3.43% $56,404,607 $2,276,904 4.04% $46,944,915 $2,447,602 5.21%

3,079,942
$71,168,625

3,178,848
$59,583,455

3,396,912
$50,341,827

$41,387,504 $
7,028,334
1

91,394
343
1,184,737

49,692,313
15,698,660
65,390,973
5,777,652

59,034
52,587
–

317
1
53,107

0.15% $32,077,578 $
0.75
0.25

7,970,474
342

92,417 0.29% $25,575,455 $ 192,200 0.75%
7,770,430
83,438 1.05
–
1 0.25

112,658 1.45
– 2.63

0.35
0.35
4.49

143,718
21,557
1,178,169

2,336 1.63
120 0.56
56,626 4.81

222,565
8,703
1,194,119

5,882 2.64
217 2.50
58,142 4.77

165,046

0.33

234,938 0.57

41,391,838
12,771,679
54,163,517
5,419,938

$59,583,455

369,099 1.06

34,771,272
9,857,038
44,628,310
5,713,517

$50,341,827

$2,163,360

$2,041,966

$2,078,503

0.24%
3.19%

0.42%
3.62%

0.78%
4.43%

205,770
$1,957,590

185,353
$1,856,613

186,809
$1,891,694

Total liabilities and stockholders’

equity

$71,168,625

Net interest income on a taxable

equivalent basis

Cost of funding earning assets
Net interest margin
Effect of the taxable equivalent

adjustment

Net interest income per books

*

Shows the effect of the tax exempt status of some loans and investments on their yield, using the applicable statutory income tax rates. The computation considers
the interest expense disallowance required by the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code. This adjustment is shown in order to compare the yields of the tax exempt
and taxable assets on a taxable basis.

Note: Average loan balances include the average balance of non-accruing loans. No interest income is recognized for these loans in accordance with the Corporation’s

policy.

48

POPULAR, INC. 2021 ANNUAL REPORT

