 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Raymond James Financial, Inc. (&#8220;RJF,&#8221; the &#8220;firm&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a leading diversified financial services company providing private client group, capital markets, asset management, banking and other services to individuals, corporations and municipalities. The firm, together with its subsidiaries, is engaged in various financial services activities, including providing investment management services to retail and institutional clients, the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and debt securities, and the sale of mutual funds and other investment products. The firm also provides corporate and retail banking services, and trust services. We operate predominately in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) and, to a lesser extent, in Canada, the United Kingdom (&#8220;U.K.&#8221;), and other parts of Europe. 

Established in 1962 and public since 1983, RJF is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the &#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;RJF.&#8221; As a bank holding company and financial holding company, RJF is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Fed&#8221;). 

Among the keys to our historical and continued success, our emphasis on putting the client first is at the core of our corporate values. We also believe in maintaining a conservative, long-term focus in our decision making. We believe that this disciplined decision-making approach translates to a strong, stable financial services firm for clients, associates, and shareholders. 

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS 

We currently operate through five segments. Our business segments are Private Client Group (&#8220;PCG&#8221;), Capital Markets, Asset Management and Raymond James Bank (&#8220;RJ Bank&#8221;). Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF that are not allocated to our business segments, including the interest costs on our public debt. 

The following graph depicts the relative net revenue contribution of each of our business segments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. 

* The preceding chart does not include intersegment eliminations or the Other segment. 

Private Client Group 

We provide financial planning, investment advisory and securities transaction services through a branch office network. Financial advisors have multiple affiliation options, which we refer to as AdvisorChoice. Our two primary affiliation options for financial advisors are the employee option and the independent contractor option. 

We recruit experienced financial advisors from a wide variety of competitors. As a part of their agreement to join us, we may make loans to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers primarily for recruiting, transitional cost assistance, and retention purposes. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Total client assets under administration (&#8220;AUA&#8221;) in our PCG segment as of September 30, 2020 were $883.3 billion, of which $475.3 billion related to fee-based accounts (&#8220;fee-based AUA&#8221;). We had 8,239 financial advisors affiliated with us as of September 30, 2020. 

Employee financial advisors 

Employee financial advisors work in a traditional branch setting supported by local management and administrative staff. They provide services predominately to retail clients. Compensation for these financial advisors primarily includes commission payments and participation in the firm&#8217;s benefit plans. 

Independent contractor financial advisors 

Our financial advisors who are independent contractors are responsible for all of their direct costs and, accordingly, receive a higher payout percentage on the revenues they generate than employee financial advisors. Our independent contractor financial advisor option is designed to help our advisors build their businesses with as much or as little of our support as they determine they need. With specific approval, and on a limited basis, they are permitted to conduct certain other approved business activities, such as offering insurance products, independent registered investment advisory services, and accounting and tax services. 

Products and services 

Irrespective of the affiliation choice, our financial advisors offer a broad range of investment products and services, including both third-party and proprietary products, and a variety of financial planning services. Revenues from this segment are typically driven by AUA and are generally either asset-based or transactional in nature. The proportion of our brokerage revenues originating from the employee versus independent contractor affiliation models is relatively balanced. 

PCG segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graph. 

* Included in &#8220;Brokerage revenues&#8221; on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. 

We provide the following products and services through this segment: 

&#8226; Investment services for which we charge sales commissions or asset-based fees based on established schedules. 

&#8226; Portfolio management services for which we charge either a fee computed as a percentage of the assets in the client&#8217;s account or a flat periodic fee. 

&#8226; Insurance and annuity products. 

&#8226; Professionally managed mutual funds. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

&#8226; Support to third-party product partners, including sales and marketing support, product availability and distribution, and accounting and administrative services. 

&#8226; Administrative services to banks to which we sweep a portion of our clients&#8217; cash deposits as part of the Raymond James Bank Deposit Program (&#8220;RJBDP&#8221;), our multi-bank sweep program. Fees received from third-party banks for these services are variable in nature and fluctuate based on client cash balances in the program, as well as the level of short-term interest rates relative to interest paid to clients by the third-party banks on balances in the RJBDP. PCG also earns servicing fees from RJ Bank, which are based on the number of accounts that are swept to RJ Bank. These fees are eliminated in consolidation. 

&#8226; Margin loans to clients that are collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities owned by the client. Interest is charged to clients on the amount borrowed based on current interest rates. 

&#8226; Custodial services, trading, research and other support and services (including access to clients&#8217; account information and the services of the Asset Management segment) to the independent registered investment advisors who are affiliated with us. 

&#8226; Securities borrowing and lending activities with other broker-dealers, financial institutions and other counterparties. The net revenues of this business generally consist of the interest spreads generated on these activities. 

&#8226; Diversification strategies and alternative investment products to qualified clients of our affiliated financial advisors. 

Capital Markets 

Our Capital Markets segment conducts institutional sales, securities trading, equity research, investment banking and the syndication and management of investments that qualify for tax credits (referred to as our &#8220;tax credit funds&#8221; business). 

Capital Markets segment net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graph. 

* Included in &#8220;Investment banking&#8221; on our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. 

We provide the following products and services through this segment. 

Equity products and services 

&#8226; We earn brokerage revenues on the sale of equity products to institutional clients. Client activity is influenced by a combination of general market activity and our Capital Markets group&#8217;s ability to identify attractive investment opportunities for our institutional clients. Revenues on equity transactions are generally based on trade size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

&#8226; We provide various investment banking services including public and private equity financing for corporate clients and merger &#38; acquisition and advisory services. Our investment banking activities include a comprehensive range of strategic and financial advisory services tailored to our clients&#8217; business life cycles and backed by our strategic industry focus. 

&#8226; Our global research department supports our institutional and retail sales efforts and publishes research on a wide variety of companies. This research primarily focuses on U.S. and Canadian companies in specific industries, including consumer, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrial, mining and natural resources, real estate, technology and communications, and transportation. Research reports are made available to both institutional and retail clients. 

Fixed income products and services 

&#8226; We earn revenues from institutional clients who purchase and sell both taxable and tax-exempt fixed income products, primarily municipal, corporate, government agency and mortgage-backed bonds, and whole loans. We carry inventories of taxable and tax-exempt securities to facilitate client transactions. 

&#8226; Our investment banking services include public finance and debt underwriting activities where we serve as a financial advisor, placement agent or underwriter to various issuers, including private and public corporate entities, state and local government agencies (and their political subdivisions), housing agencies, and non-profit entities including healthcare and higher education institutions. 

&#8226; We enter into interest rate derivatives to facilitate client transactions or to actively manage risk exposures that arise from our client activity, including a portion of our trading inventory. In addition, we conduct a &#8220;matched book&#8221; derivatives business where we may enter into interest rate derivative transactions with clients. In this matched book business, for every derivative transaction we enter into with a client, we enter into an offsetting derivative transaction with a credit support provider that is a third-party financial institution. 

Tax credit funds 

&#8226; We act as the general partner or managing member in partnerships and limited liability companies that invest in real estate project entities which qualify for tax credits under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and/or provide a mechanism for banks and other institutions to meet their Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) obligations throughout the U.S. We earn fees for the origination and sale of these investment products as well as for the oversight and management of the investments over the statutory tax credit compliance period. 

Asset Management 

Our Asset Management segment earns asset management and related administrative fees for providing asset management, portfolio management and related administrative services to retail and institutional clients. This segment oversees a portion of our fee-based AUA for our PCG clients through our Asset Management Services division (&#8220;AMS&#8221;) and through Raymond James Trust, N.A. (&#8220;RJ Trust&#8221;). This segment also provides asset management services through Carillon Tower Advisers and affiliates (collectively, &#8220;Carillon Tower Advisers&#8221;) for certain retail accounts managed on behalf of third-party institutions, institutional accounts and proprietary mutual funds that we manage. 

Management fees in this segment are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of our fee-billable financial assets under management (&#8220;AUM&#8221;) in both AMS (including the portion of fee-based AUA in PCG that is overseen by AMS) and Carillon Tower Advisers, where investment decisions are made by in-house or third-party portfolio managers or investment committees. The fee rates applied are dependent upon various factors, including the distinctive services provided and the level of assets within each client relationship. The fee rates applied in Carillon Tower Advisers may also vary based on the account objective (i.e., equity, fixed income, or balanced). Our AUM are impacted by market fluctuations and net inflows or outflows of assets, including transfers between fee-based accounts and traditional transaction-based accounts within our PCG segment. Fees are generally collected quarterly and are based on balances as of the beginning of the quarter (particularly in AMS) or the end of the quarter, or based on average daily balances throughout the quarter. 

Our Asset Management segment also earns administrative fees on certain fee-based assets within PCG that are not overseen by our Asset Management segment, but for which the segment provides administrative support (e.g., record-keeping). 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Our AUM and our Carillon Tower Advisers AUM by objective as of September 30, 2020 are presented in the following graphs. 

RJ Bank 

RJ Bank is a national bank that provides various types of loans, including corporate loans (commercial and industrial (&#8220;C&#38;I&#8221;), commercial real estate (&#8220;CRE&#8221;) and CRE construction), tax-exempt loans, residential loans, securities-based loans (&#8220;SBL&#8221;) and other loans. RJ Bank is active in corporate loan syndications and participations. RJ Bank also provides Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;)-insured deposit accounts, including to clients of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. RJ Bank generates net interest income principally through the interest income earned on loans and an investment portfolio of securities, which is offset by the interest expense it pays on client deposits and on its borrowings. 

As of September 30, 2020, corporate and tax-exempt loans represented approximately 57% of RJ Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio, of which 87% were U.S. and Canadian syndicated loans. Residential mortgage loans are originated or purchased and held for investment or sold in the secondary market. RJ Bank&#8217;s investment portfolio is primarily comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;MBS&#8221;) and agency collateralized mortgage obligations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;) and is classified as available-for-sale. RJ Bank&#8217;s liabilities primarily consist of deposits that are cash balances swept from the investment accounts of PCG clients. 

The following graph details the composition of RJ Bank&#8217;s total assets as of September 30, 2020. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Other 

Our Other segment includes our private equity investments, interest income on certain corporate cash balances, and certain corporate overhead costs of RJF, including the interest costs on our public debt. The Other segment also includes reduction in workforce expenses associated with certain position eliminations that occurred in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2020 in response to the economic environment. 

Our private equity portfolio includes various direct investments, as well as investments in third-party private equity funds and various legacy private equity funds which we sponsor. 

HUMAN CAPITAL 

Our &#8220;associates&#8221; (which include our employee financial advisors and all of our other employees, and independent contractor financial advisors) are vital to our success in the financial services industry. As a human-capital intensive business, the long-term success of our firm depends on our people. Our goal is to ensure that we have the right talent, in the right place, at the right time. We do that through our commitment to attracting, developing and retaining our associates. 

We strive to attract individuals who are people-focused and share our values. We have competitive programs dedicated to selecting new talent and enhancing the skills of our associates. In our recruiting efforts, we strive to have a diverse group of candidates to consider for our roles. To that end, we have strong relationships with a variety of industry associations that represent diverse professionals and with diversity groups at the colleges and universities where we recruit. Among other opportunities, we offer selected students and recent graduates summer internships and pipeline programs across many areas of the firm, which may lead to permanent roles. Individuals who want to become financial advisors in our PCG segment can gain relevant branch experience through our Wealth Management Associate Program or move to our Advisor Mastery Program and begin building their client base. 

We have designed a compensation structure, including an array of benefit plans and programs, that we believe is attractive to our current and prospective associates. We also offer our associates the opportunity to participate in a variety of professional and leadership development programs. Our extensive program catalog includes a variety of industry, product, technical, professional, business development, leadership and regulatory topics. These programs are available online and in-person. In addition, we have a variety of mentoring programs in place to support the development of our associates and expand their networks within the firm. We have a department dedicated to providing practice education and management resources to our PCG financial advisors. We also offer these advisors the opportunity to participate in conferences and workshops, and we offer resources and coaching at all levels to help them grow their businesses. These include separate national conferences for our employee and independent contractor financial advisor channels, each of which is attended by thousands of our advisors and their families each year. 

We seek to retain our associates by using their feedback to create and continually enhance programs that support their needs. We use firmwide pulse surveys to solicit feedback from our associates. We have a formal annual goal setting and performance review processes for our employees. We have a values-based culture, an important factor in retaining our associates, which is memorialized in a culture &#8220;blueprint&#8221; that is communicated to all associates. Our training to share and communicate our culture to all associates plays an important part in this process. We are committed to having a diverse workforce, and an inclusive work environment is a natural extension of our culture. We have recently renewed our commitment to ensuring that all our associates feel welcomed, valued, respected and heard so that they can fully contribute their unique talents for the benefit of clients, their careers, our firm and our communities. We also invest substantial resources in the community-supporting organizations that are dedicated to improving the lives of diverse individuals. Our firmwide diversity and inclusion advisory council stewards the firm&#8217;s efforts and provides guidance on priorities. This council is composed of associate representatives from all areas of our business and locations where we operate. We also have firmwide and business unit-specific diversity and inclusion networks, which host various events and conferences to educate and support our diversity and inclusion efforts. 

We monitor and evaluate various turnover and attrition metrics throughout our management teams. Our annualized voluntary turnover is relatively low, as is the case for turnover of our top performers, a record which we attribute to our strong values-based culture, commitment to career development, and attractive compensation and benefit programs. Importantly, our financial advisor attrition rate is even lower. 

As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately 14,800 employees (including 3,404 employee financial advisors) and 4,835 affiliated independent contractor financial advisors. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING 

We have operations personnel at various locations who are responsible for processing securities transactions, custody of client securities, support of client accounts, the receipt, identification and delivery of funds and securities, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements for most of our securities brokerage operations. 

The information technology department develops and supports the integrated solutions that provide a customized platform for our businesses. These include a platform for financial advisors designed to allow them to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses; systems that support institutional and retail sales and trading activity from initiation to settlement and custody; and thorough security protocols to protect firm and client information. 

In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect our own information and that of our clients. We apply numerous safeguards to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of both client and firm information. 

Our business continuity program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance that we will continue to operate in the event of disruptions at our critical facilities or other business disruptions. We have developed operational plans for such disruptions, and we have devoted significant resources to maintaining those plans. Our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous operations in the event of weather-related or other interruptions at our corporate headquarters in Florida, one of our operations processing or data center sites (located in Florida, Colorado, Tennessee or Michigan), and our branch and office locations throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe. 

In response to the coronavirus (&#8220;COVID-19&#8221;) pandemic, we activated certain aspects of our business continuity program during 2020 endeavoring to protect our associates and our clients. As a result, nearly all of our associates transitioned to working remotely, while still maintaining our high standards of client service. The firm continues to monitor the pandemic and has developed a phased approach to reopening our offices based on regional indicators of infection positivity rates, and has and will continue to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. 

COMPETITION 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive. We compete with many other financial services firms, including a number of larger securities firms, most of which are affiliated with major financial services companies, insurance companies, banking institutions and other organizations. We also compete with companies that offer web-based financial services and discount brokerage services to individual clients, usually with lower levels of service, and, more recently, financial technology (&#8220;fintech&#8221;) firms. We compete principally on the basis of the quality of our associates, services, product selection, performance records, location and reputation in local markets. 

Our ability to compete effectively is substantially dependent on our continuing ability to develop or attract, retain and motivate qualified financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. 

REGULATION 

The following discussion summarizes the principal elements of the regulatory and supervisory framework applicable to us as a participant in the financial services industry and, in particular, the banking and securities sectors. The framework includes extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable laws of the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which we do business. This framework is intended to protect our clients, the integrity of the financial markets, our depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and is not intended to protect our creditors or shareholders. These rules and regulations limit our ability to engage in certain activities, as well as our ability to fund RJF from our regulated subsidiaries, which include RJ Bank, RJ Trust and our broker-dealer subsidiaries. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions that are referenced. A change in applicable statutes or regulations or in regulatory or supervisory policy may have a material effect on our business. 

We continue to experience a period of notable changes in financial regulation and supervision. We continue to monitor the likelihood of changes in taxation and regulations due to changes in the political environment. Based upon the outcome of the most recent U.S. federal elections, the likelihood of changes in both corporate and individual taxation, as well as regulations, has likely increased. These changes could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

and cash flows in the future; however, we cannot predict the exact changes or quantify their potential impacts. (see &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the potential future impact on our operations). 

Banking supervision and regulation 

RJF is a bank holding company (&#8220;BHC&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;), that has made an election to be a financial holding company (&#8220;FHC&#8221;) and is subject to regulation, oversight and consolidated supervision, including periodic examination, by the Fed. Under the system of &#8220;functional regulation&#8221; established under the BHC Act, the primary regulators of our U.S. non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Fed exercising a supervisory role. Such &#8220;functionally regulated&#8221; subsidiaries include our broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), such as Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. (&#8220;RJ&#38;A&#8221;) and Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (&#8220;RJFS&#8221;), investment advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities, and our depository institution and trust company chartered and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;). 

RJ Bank is a national bank and insured depository institution regulated, supervised and examined by the OCC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;). Our trust company non-depository subsidiary, RJ Trust, is also regulated, supervised and examined by the OCC. The Fed and the FDIC also regulate and may examine RJ Bank and, with respect to the Fed, RJ Trust. 

Collectively, the rules and regulations of the Fed, the OCC, the FDIC and the CFPB cover all aspects of the banking business, including, for example, lending practices, the receipt of deposits, capital structure, transactions with affiliates, conduct and qualifications of personnel and, as discussed further in the following sections, capital requirements. This regulatory, supervisory and oversight framework is subject to significant changes that can affect the operating costs and permissible businesses of RJF, RJ Bank, RJ Trust and all of our other subsidiaries. As a part of their supervisory functions, the Fed, the OCC, the FDIC, and the CFPB also have the power to bring enforcement actions for violations of law and, in the case of the Fed, the OCC and the FDIC, for unsafe or unsound practices. 

Basel III and U.S. capital rules 

Both RJF and RJ Bank are subject to minimum capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC published final U.S. rules implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and other capital provisions, and updated the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the new regulatory capital minimums (the &#8220;U.S. Basel III Rules&#8221;). The U.S. Basel III Rules: (i) increased the quantity and quality of regulatory capital; (ii) established a capital conservation buffer; and (iii) made changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow, including during favorable market conditions, and to return capital to shareholders, or require us to raise additional capital. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be adversely affected. See &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this Form 10-K for more information. 

Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger discretionary, and in certain cases, mandatory actions by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the financial results of RJF and RJ Bank. Under capital adequacy guidelines, RJF and RJ Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital amounts and classification for RJF and RJ Bank are also subject to the qualitative judgments of U.S. regulators based on components of capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions and other factors. Quantitative measures established by federal banking regulations to ensure capital adequacy require that RJF and RJ Bank maintain minimum amounts and ratios of: (i) Common Equity Tier 1 (or &#8220;CET1&#8221;), Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted assets; (ii) Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets; and (iii) capital conservation buffers. 

In July 2019, the Fed issued a final rule to simplify and clarify a number of existing regulatory capital rules for certain banking organizations. The rule was effective on October 1, 2019, for revisions to the pre-approval requirements for the repurchase of common stock and became effective on April 1, 2020, for the amendments to simplify capital rules. The rule simplifies the capital treatment for mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets, investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions, and minority interest. This rule also allows BHCs like RJF to repurchase common stock without prior approval from the Fed to the extent that the BHC is not subject to a separate legal or regulatory requirement to obtain prior approval. RJF would continue to need to obtain prior approval from the Fed if it were not &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed&#8221; or if it were subject to any unresolved supervisory issues. Guidance from the Fed also indicates that RJF would need to inform the Fed in advance of repurchasing common stock in certain prescribed situations, such as if it were 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

experiencing, or at risk of experiencing, financial weaknesses or considering expansion, either through acquisitions or other new activities. Further, Fed guidance indicates that, pursuant to the Fed&#8217;s general supervisory and enforcement authority, Fed supervisory staff should prevent a BHC from repurchasing its common stock if such action would be inconsistent with the BHC&#8217;s prospective capital needs and safe and sound operation. 

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further information. 

Source of strength 

The Fed requires that BHCs, such as RJF, serve as a source of financial strength for any of its subsidiary depository institutions. The term &#8220;source of financial strength&#8221; is defined as the ability of a company to provide financial assistance to its insured depository institution subsidiaries in the event of financial distress at such subsidiaries. Under this requirement, RJF could be required to provide financial assistance to RJ Bank in the future should it experience financial distress. 

Transactions between affiliates 

Transactions between (i) RJ Bank, RJ Trust or their subsidiaries on the one hand and (ii) RJF or its other subsidiaries or affiliates on the other hand are subject to compliance with Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W issued by the Fed. These laws and regulations generally limit the types and amounts of transactions (including credit extensions from (i) RJ Bank, RJ Trust or their subsidiaries to (ii) RJF or its other subsidiaries or affiliates) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on market terms. These laws and regulations generally do not apply to transactions between RJ Bank or RJ Trust and their subsidiaries. 

The Volcker Rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally prohibits certain transactions and imposes a market terms requirement on certain other transactions between (i) RJF or its other subsidiaries or affiliates on the one hand and (ii) covered funds for which RJF or its subsidiaries or affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by RJF or its other subsidiaries or affiliates on the other hand. See &#8220;The Volcker Rule&#8221; in the following section. 

Deposit insurance 

Since RJ Bank provides deposits covered by FDIC insurance, generally up to $250,000 per account ownership type, RJ Bank is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. For banks with greater than $10 billion in assets, which includes RJ Bank, the FDIC&#8217;s current assessment rate calculation relies on a scorecard designed to measure financial performance and ability to withstand stress, in addition to measuring the FDIC&#8217;s exposure should the bank fail. 

Prompt corrective action 

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;) requires the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks, such as RJ Bank: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than the category indicated by its capital ratios if the institution is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital requirements could also require a depository institution to raise capital. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

The prompt corrective action regulations do not apply to BHCs, such as RJF. However, the Fed is authorized to take appropriate action at the BHC level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the BHC&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain instances related to an undercapitalized depository institution subsidiary, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the BHC, this guarantee would take priority over the BHC&#8217;s general unsecured creditors. As of September 30, 2020, RJ Bank was categorized as well-capitalized. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

The Volcker Rule 

RJF is subject to the Volcker Rule, which generally prohibits BHCs and their subsidiaries and affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exceptions. 

We have proprietary private equity investments that meet the definition of covered funds under the Volcker Rule. The conformance period for compliance with the rule with respect to investments in covered funds was July 2017; however, banking entities were able to apply for an extension to provide up to an additional five years to conform investments in certain illiquid funds. The majority of our covered fund investments meet the criteria to be considered an illiquid fund under the Volcker Rule and we received approval from the Fed to continue to hold such investments until July 2022. The extension of the conformance deadline provides us with additional time to attempt to realize the value of these investments in due course and to execute appropriate strategies to comply with the Volcker Rule at such time. However, our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing covered fund portfolio. 

The Fed, OCC, FDIC, SEC, and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule in 2019, which relate primarily to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s proprietary trading and compliance program requirements. The amendments do not change the Volcker Rule&#8217;s general prohibitions, but they offer certain clarifications and a simplified approach to compliance. 

In June 2020, the Fed, OCC, FDIC, SEC and CFTC finalized further amendments to the Volcker Rule. The final rule includes new exclusions from the Volcker Rule&#8217;s general prohibition on banking entities investing in and sponsoring private equity funds, hedge funds, and certain other investment vehicles (collectively, &#8220;covered funds&#8221;) for credit funds, venture capital funds, family wealth management vehicles, and customer facilitation vehicles. The final rule also revises existing exclusions for foreign public funds, loan securitizations, and public welfare and small business funds. In addition, the final rules modify the &#8220;Super 23&#8221; provisions of the Volcker Rule, which prohibit banking entities from extending credit to and entering into certain transactions with advised or sponsored covered funds, by exempting certain short-term extensions of credit, among several other previously prohibited transactions. 

Many of the amendments contained in the final rule address aspects of the existing regulations that have, since their adoption in 2013, proven in practice to be complex and burdensome or to have unintended consequences. The final rule is intended to clarify and simplify compliance with the implementing regulations and permit additional fund activities that do not present the risks that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. The final rule became effective on October 1, 2020 for all banking entities subject to the Volcker Rule, including RJF and its subsidiaries. 

Compensation practices 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Fed. Compensation regulation in the financial industry continues to develop, and we expect these regulations to change over a number of years. The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have provided guidance designed to ensure incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with safety and soundness. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. financial regulators to adopt rules on incentive-based payment arrangements. The U.S. financial regulators proposed revised rules in 2016, which have not yet been finalized. 

Community Reinvestment Act regulations 

RJ Bank is subject to the CRA, which is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound bank operations. Under the CRA, the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC are required to periodically examine and assign to each bank a public CRA rating. If any insured depository institution subsidiary of a FHC fails to maintain at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating under the CRA, the FHC would be subject to restrictions on certain new activities and acquisitions. 

The OCC issued a final rule comprehensively amending the CRA regulations applicable to RJ Bank and other OCC-regulated banks in May 2020. At the core of the OCC&#8217;s final rule is a set of new general performance standards that establish more quantitative measures of CRA performance than the tests set forth in existing CRA regulations. 

While RJ Bank will be required to comply with the final rule by January 2023, the OCC has deferred the decision of how key thresholds and benchmarks used in the rule will be applied to determine the level of performance necessary to achieve a particular performance rating to a future rulemaking process. As a result, the final rule creates some uncertainty for RJ Bank and other OCC-regulated banks in planning their CRA activities until that decision is made. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Neither the FDIC nor the Fed joined the OCC in issuing the final rule, and the Fed issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking for the CRA regulations applicable to state-charted banks it supervises in September 2020. State-chartered banks will therefore continue to operate under the FDIC&#8217;s and Fed&#8217;s CRA regulations rather than the OCC&#8217;s CRA regulations. In June 2020, certain organizations filed suit against the OCC asking a court to issue an order setting the rule aside. In the same month, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval in an attempt to nullify the rule. This measure failed to pass a required U.S. Senate vote in October 2020. These developments create further uncertainty for RJ Bank and others in planning their CRA activities. 

Other restrictions 

FHCs, such as RJF, generally can engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are otherwise permissible for BHCs as long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for FHCs. The broader range of permissible activities for FHCs includes underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities and making investments in non-FHCs or merchant banking activities. 

The Fed, however, has the authority to limit an FHC&#8217;s ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible, and will likely do so if the FHC does not satisfactorily meet certain requirements of the Fed. For example, if an FHC or any of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries ceases to maintain its status as &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements, as well as additional limitations or conditions. If the deficiencies persist, the FHC may be required to divest its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries or to cease engaging in activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. 

In addition, we are required to obtain prior Fed approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both within and outside the U.S. 

Broker-dealer and securities regulation 

The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws in the U.S. Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to SEC regulations relating to their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping, privacy requirements, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which they conduct business. Our primary U.S. broker-dealers, RJ&#38;A and RJFS, are currently registered as broker-dealers in all 50 states. 

Financial services firms are also subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. Outside of the U.S., we have additional offices primarily in Canada and Europe and are subject to regulations in those areas. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers in the U.S. and Canada, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (&#8220;SROs&#8221;) (e.g., the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (&#8220;IIROC&#8221;) and securities exchanges). These SROs adopt and amend rules for regulating the industry, subject to the approval of government agencies. These SROs also conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers. 

The SEC, SROs and state securities regulators may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers, employees or other associated persons. Such administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and may adversely impact the reputation of a broker-dealer. 

Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act (&#8220;SIPA&#8221;) and are required by federal law to be members of the Securities Investors Protection Corporation (&#8220;SIPC&#8221;). The SIPC was established under SIPA, and oversees the liquidation of broker-dealers during liquidation or financial distress. The SIPC fund provides protection for cash and securities held in client accounts up to $500,000 per client, with a limitation of $250,000 on claims for cash balances. 

U.S. broker-dealer capital 

Broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and are required to keep their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of broker-dealers to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to certain of the SEC&#8217;s financial stability rules, including the: (i) net capital rule; (ii) customer protection rule; (iii) record-keeping rules; and (iv) notification rules. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Standard of care 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. In June 2019, the SEC adopted a package of rule-makings and interpretations related to the provision of advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers, including Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS. Among other things, Regulation Best Interest requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation to that customer of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. Form CRS requires that broker-dealers and investment advisers provide retail investors with a brief summary document containing simple, easy-to-understand information about the nature of the relationship between the parties. Since June 30, 2020, we have been required to comply with Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS. Implementation of the regulations required us to review and modify our policies and procedures, as well as associated supervisory and compliance controls, satisfy additional disclosure obligations, and provide related education and training to financial advisors. 

Additionally, various states have proposed, or adopted, laws and regulations seeking to impose new standards of conduct on broker-dealers that may differ from the SEC&#8217;s new regulations, which will lead to additional implementation costs. The Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;) has also reinstated the historical &#8220;five-part test&#8221; for determining who is an investment advice &#8220;fiduciary&#8221; when dealing with certain retirement plans and accounts and proposed a new exemption to allow investment advice fiduciaries to receive transaction-based compensation and engage in certain principal trades. We are studying and evaluating the proposal. The total impact of the DOL change on our business will not be fully known until the proposal is finalized and could lead to additional costs. 

Investment management regulation 

Our investment advisory operations, including the mutual funds that we sponsor, are also subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. The majority of our asset managers are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as amended (the &#8220;Investment Advisers Act&#8221;), and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. Virtually all aspects of our asset management business are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended for the benefit of our clients. 

Anti-money laundering, economic sanctions, and anti-bribery and corruption regulation 

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (&#8220;PATRIOT Act&#8221;) and the Customer Due Diligence Rule, contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to all financial institutions, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the U.S. contain some similar provisions. 

The U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers economic and trade sanctions programs and enforces sanctions regulations with which all U.S. persons must comply. The European Union (&#8220;E.U.&#8221;) as well as various countries have also adopted economic sanctions programs targeted at countries, entities and individuals that are involved in terrorism, hostilities, embezzlement or human rights violations. 

In addition, various countries have adopted laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, related to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. The scope of the types of payments or other benefits covered by these laws is very broad and is subject to significant uncertainties that may be clarified only in the context of further regulatory guidance or enforcement proceedings. 

RJF and its affiliates have been required to implement and maintain internal policies, procedures, and controls to meet the compliance obligations imposed by such U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations concerning anti-money laundering, economic sanctions, and anti-bribery and corruption. Failure to meet the requirements of these regulations can result in supervisory action, including fines. 

Privacy and data protection 

U.S. federal law establishes minimum federal standards for financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain limitations on disclosure to third parties of consumer information. U.S. state laws and regulations adopted under U.S. federal law impose obligations on RJF and its subsidiaries for protecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of client information, and 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

require notice of data breaches to certain U.S. regulators and to clients. The SEC&#8217;s Regulation S-ID mandates the development and implementation of a written Identity Theft Prevention Program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. The California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective on January 1, 2020, imposes privacy compliance obligations with regard to the personal information of California residents, including requiring companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and provides for a number of new rights for California residents. Similarly, the General Data Protection Regulation (&#8220;GDPR&#8221;) imposes additional requirements for companies that collect or store personal data of E.U. residents. GDPR expands the scope of the E.U. data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of E.U. residents, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime, and includes new rights for E.U. residents. We have adopted privacy policies and communicated required information relating to financial privacy and data security, in accordance with applicable laws. We continue to monitor regulations related to data privacy and protection on both a domestic and international level to assess requirements and impacts on our global business operations. 

Legislative and regulatory changes in connection with COVID-19 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments around the world implementing numerous measures to help control the spread of the virus, including, among others, quarantines, travel restrictions and business curtailments. In addition, governments globally intervened with fiscal policy to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, including the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (&#8220;CARES&#8221;) Act in the U.S., which aimed to provide economic relief to businesses and individuals. 

The CARES Act includes a broad range of provisions intended to support the U.S. economy. Among its provisions, the act allocates funds for a new Paycheck Protection Program that expands an existing Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) loan guarantee program for small businesses to keep their employees on payroll and make other eligible payments. Currently, the firm does not act as a lender under these programs and facilities, and has no immediate plans to do so. 

The CARES Act also provides certain temporary regulatory relief for financial institutions, including RJF and its subsidiaries. The act permits financial institutions to temporarily suspend any determination of a loan modified as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic as being a troubled debt restructuring (&#8220;TDR&#8221;), including impairment for accounting purposes. We elected to apply the CARES Act relief to certain loan modifications that relate primarily to short-term payment deferrals and have not classified such modifications as TDRs. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk management - Credit risk&#8221; for further information on the impact of such loan modifications. The act also permits financial institutions to temporarily delay the implementation of the Current Expected Credit Losses (&#8220;CECL&#8221;) model for estimating allowances for credit losses. In addition, the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC issued a joint statement providing banking organizations optional temporary relief by delaying the initial adoption impact of CECL on regulatory capital for two years, followed by a three-year transition period to phase out the aggregate amount of the capital benefit provided during 2020 and 2021 (i.e., a five-year transition period). We did not delay our October 1, 2020 initial adoption of the implementation of CECL and did not take the optional temporary relief by delaying the impact of CECL on our regulatory capital calculations. 

The CARES Act grants potential tax relief and liquidity to businesses, including corporate tax provisions that: temporarily allow for the carryback of net operating losses and remove limitations on the use of loss carryforwards, increase interest expense deduction limitations, and allow accelerated depreciation deductions on certain asset improvements. In addition, the CARES Act allows employers to defer the payment, including the deposit, of payroll taxes for the 2020 calendar year from March 27, 2020 until December 31, 2021 for 50 percent of such taxes and December 31, 2022 for the remaining 50 percent. 

The CARES Act further provides a number of consumer finance protections. The act provides a range of forbearance rights with respect to any federally backed residential or multi-family mortgage loan and generally limits the ability of a lender or servicer to institute foreclosure or similar proceedings. The act additionally imposes a moratorium on evictions from dwellings of many tenants. On September 1, 2020, the Department of Health and Human services, through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, announced a nationwide order temporarily halting certain residential evictions. These provisions are consistent with supervisory guidance previously issued by federal banking agencies, which also stated that they would not criticize financial institutions for working with customers affected by the outbreak in a safe and sound manner. We have modified our processes to ensure full compliance and are working as appropriate to support affected businesses and individuals during this time. Many state and local authorities have also taken, or are considering taking, legislative, executive, or other action to respond to the economic disruptions caused by the spread of COVID-19, including with respect to foreclosure and repossession moratoriums. 

The Company&#8217;s legislative and regulatory environment is continually changing in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and new or modified laws, regulations and guidance may be promulgated at very short notice. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Other non-U.S. regulation 

Raymond James Ltd. (&#8220;RJ Ltd.&#8221;) is currently registered as an investment dealer in all provinces and territories in Canada. The financial services industry in Canada is subject to comprehensive regulation under both federal and provincial laws. Securities commissions have been established in all provinces and territorial jurisdictions, which are charged with the administration of securities laws. Investment dealers in Canada are subject to regulation by IIROC, a SRO under the oversight of the securities commissions that make up the Canadian Securities Administrators. IIROC is responsible for the enforcement of, and conformity with, securities legislation for their members and has been granted the powers to prescribe their own rules of conduct and financial requirements of members, including RJ Ltd. IIROC also requires that RJ Ltd. be a member of the Canadian Investors Protection Fund, whose primary role is investor protection. This fund provides protection for securities and cash held in client accounts up to 1 million Canadian dollars (&#8220;CAD&#8221;) per client, with additional coverage of CAD 1 million for certain types of accounts. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further information pertaining to broker-dealer regulatory minimum net capital requirements. 

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered in, and operate from, the U.K. which has a highly developed and comprehensive regulatory regime. Certain of these subsidiaries operate in the retail sector, providing investment and financial planning services to high-net-worth individuals, while others provide brokerage and investment banking services to institutional clients. These subsidiaries are authorized and regulated by the U.K. conduct regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;), and have permission to carry out business in other E.U. countries as part of treaty arrangements; however, these permissions may be negatively impacted by the terms and conditions of the U.K.&#8217;s withdrawal from the E.U. (&#8220;Brexit&#8221;). 

As of September 30, 2020, we have entered into an agreement to sell our interests in certain of our subsidiaries which are incorporated and operate in France and that provide investment and asset management services to high-net-worth individuals and brokerage services to institutional clients. These subsidiaries are both authorized and regulated by the French Regulatory Authority the L&#8217;Autorit&#233; de contr&#244;le prudentiel et de resolution and Autorit&#233; des March&#233;s Financiers and have permission to carry out business in other E.U. countries as part of treaty arrangements. We expect the sale to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2021. 

In Europe, the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation and a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (together, &#8220;MiFID II&#8221;), generally took effect on January 3, 2018, and introduced comprehensive, new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U., including new trading venues, enhancements to pre- and post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. These reforms also changed the way investment managers can pay for the receipt of investment research and mandated unbundling between execution and other major services, including research, for broker-dealers. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Executive officers of the registrant (which includes officers of certain significant subsidiaries) are as follows: 

##TABLE_START Paul D. Allison 64 Chairman, President and CEO - Raymond James Ltd. since January 2009 James E. Bunn 47 President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since December 2018 and Head of Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since January 2014; Co-President - Global Equities and Investment Banking - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc., October 2017 - December 2018 John C. Carson, Jr. 64 President since April 2012; President - Morgan Keegan &#38; Company, LLC, formerly known as Morgan Keegan &#38; Company, Inc., since July 2013 George Catanese 61 Chief Risk Officer since February 2006 Scott A. Curtis 58 President - Private Client Group since June 2018; President - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. since January 2012 Jeffrey A. Dowdle 56 Chief Operating Officer and Head of Asset Management Group since October 2019; Chief Administrative Officer, August 2018 - October 2019; President - Asset Management Group, May 2016 - October 2019; Executive Vice President - Asset Management Group, February 2014 - May 2016 Tashtego S. Elwyn 49 Chief Executive Officer and President - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since June 2018; President - Private Client Group - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc., January 2012 - June 2018 Thomas A. James 78 Chairman Emeritus since February 2017; Executive Chairman, May 2010 - February 2017 Jeffrey P. Julien 64 Executive Vice President - Finance since August 2009; Chief Financial Officer, April 1987 - December 2019; Treasurer, February 2011 - February 2018 Bella Loykhter Allaire 67 Executive Vice President - Technology and Operations - Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. since June 2011 Jodi L. Perry 49 President - Independent Contractor Division - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. since June 2018; Senior Vice President, National Director - ICD - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., May 2018 - June 2018; Senior Vice President, ICD Regional Director - Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., June 2012 - May 2018 Steven M. Raney 55 President and CEO - Raymond James Bank, N.A. since January 2006 Paul C. Reilly 66 Chairman since February 2017 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010; Director since January 2006 Jonathan N. Santelli 49 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2016; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel - First Republic Bank, October 2013 to April 2016 Paul M. Shoukry 37 

Chief Financial Officer since January 2020 and Treasurer since February 2018; Senior Vice President - Finance and Investor Relations, January 2017 - December 2019; Senior Vice President - Treasury, January 2017 - February 2018; Vice President - Finance and Investor Relations, July 2012 - December 2016 

##TABLE_END

Except where otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held his or her current position for more than five years. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Our Internet address is www.raymondjames.com. We make available on our website, free of charge and in printer-friendly format including &#8220;.pdf&#8221; file extensions, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our reports and other information that we electronically file with the SEC are also available free of charge on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

FACTORS AFFECTING &#8220;FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS&#8221; 

Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives, business prospects, anticipated savings, financial results (including expenses, earnings, liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures), industry or market conditions, demand for and pricing of our products, acquisitions and divestitures, anticipated results of litigation, regulatory developments, effects of accounting pronouncements, and general economic conditions. In addition, words such as &#8220;believes,&#8221; &#8220;expects,&#8221; &#8220;anticipates,&#8221; &#8220;plans,&#8221; &#8220;estimates,&#8221; and future or conditional verbs such as &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;could,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; and &#8220;would,&#8221; as well as any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees, and they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements and urge you to carefully consider the risks described in &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of this report. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statement in the event it later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

