 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. For information regarding these risks and uncertainties, see &#8220;Item 1A - Risk Factors&#8221; of our 2019 Form 10-K. The following represents material changes to our risk factors disclosed in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY 

The recent outbreak of COVID-19 has adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 

The worldwide COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected our business and the entire financial services industry and is likely to continue to do so. Since the beginning of January 2020, the outbreak has caused significant volatility and disruption in the financial markets both globally and in the U.S., and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19. The pandemic has led governments and other authorities around the world, including federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., to impose measures intended to control its spread, including restrictions on travel and the conduct of business, such as stay-at-home orders, quarantines, travel bans, border closings, business closures and other similar measures. If COVID-19, or another highly infectious or contagious disease, continues to spread or the response to contain it is unsuccessful, we will likely experience further adverse effects on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. A prolonged period of economic deterioration may also result in impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. The extent of such effects will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the geographic spread of the virus, the overall severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, the measures taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak and the possible further impacts on the global economy. 

The continued spread of COVID-19, or another highly infectious or contagious disease, has caused and could continue to cause severe disruptions in our business. These effects have included restrictions on our employees&#8217; ability to travel, as well as temporary closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers, suppliers, or other vendors. We often recruit skilled professionals and new clients by visiting their offices or having them visit our offices. Consequently, any travel restrictions or other disruptions that prevent us from meeting with professional prospects or potential new clients may adversely impact our ability to recruit such professional prospects or engage potential new clients. Although we maintain contingency plans for events such as pandemic outbreaks, the further spread of COVID-19 or a similar contagious disease could also impair the availability of our executive officers who are necessary to conduct our business. In addition, any continued spread of COVID-19 or new outbreak could harm the operations of third-party service providers who perform critical services for our business. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused, and is likely to continue to cause, severe economic, market and other disruptions worldwide. As a result of a shift to fee-based accounts over the past several years, a larger portion of our client assets is more directly affected by market movements. The significant decrease in the market value of our clients&#8217; assets has had and will continue to have a negative impact on our financial results due to the fact that asset-based fees are earned on the market value of the underlying client assets, many of which are billed based on assets as of the beginning of a quarter. This market decline will likely have a greater negative affect on revenues and profitability than would have been experienced in prior years due to the increased proportion of our asset-based revenues. Market volatility could also cause clients to move their investments to lower margin products, or withdraw them, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We could also experience a material reduction in trading volume and lower securities prices in times of market volatility, which would result in lower brokerage revenues, including losses on firm inventory. The fair values of certain of our investments could also continue to be negatively impacted, resulting in additional unrealized or realized losses on such investments. In addition, the market volatility and uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic may cause our institutional clients to abandon announced transactions and/or cease exploration of potential transactions which could negatively impact our Capital Markets revenues, including those derived from our investment banking business. 

Moreover, certain actions taken by U.S. or other governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve, that are intended to ameliorate the macroeconomic effects of COVID-19 have had, and will continue to have, a negative effect on our business. The Fed significantly lowered interest rates in response to COVID-19 pandemic concerns in March. These decreases in short-term interest rates, in addition 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

to those in late 2019, have had a negative impact on our results, as we have certain assets and liabilities, primarily held in our PCG, RJ Bank and Other segments, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Fees we earn from third-party banks on client cash balances swept to such banks as part of RJBDP are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. These market interest rate declines will continue to negatively impact results in future quarters. 

In addition, we are generally exposed to the credit risk that third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their obligations to us due to numerous causes, and this risk has been and may further be exacerbated by the macroeconomic effects of COVID-19. We lend to businesses and individuals, including through offering C&#38;I loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and other loans generally collateralized by securities. We also incur credit risk through our investments. Our credit risk has increased, and such risk and credit losses may continue to increase to the extent our loans or investments are to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by declining economic or market conditions as a result of COVID-19 such as those operating in the airline, restaurant, gaming, entertainment/leisure and energy sectors. The deterioration of our credit exposure due to COVID-19 has led to additional loan loss provisions and could lead to further additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income, regulatory capital and liquidity. 

We cannot assure you that conditions in financial markets will not continue to deteriorate as a result of the pandemic, or that our access to capital and other sources of funding will not become constrained, resulting in actions such as restructuring debt or obtaining additional financing on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. 

Any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. 

Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. There have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. Like other financial services firms, we experience malicious cyber activity directed at our computer systems, software, networks and its users on a daily basis. This malicious activity includes attempts at unauthorized access, implantation of computer viruses or malware, and denial-of-service attacks. We also experience large volumes of phishing and other forms of social engineering attempted for the purpose of perpetrating fraud against the firm, our associates, our advisors or our clients. Additionally, like many large enterprises, since mid-March 2020, we have shifted the majority of our associates to remote work arrangements in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This change in our operating model has enabled us to successfully continue business operations, but also introduces potential new vulnerabilities to cyber threats. We seek to continuously monitor for and nimbly react to any and all such activity, and we develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misuse, misappropriation or corruption. 

Cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. Third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. Although cybersecurity incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. However, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. Although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. Despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations. 

We also rely on numerous third-party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. While we regularly conduct security assessments on these third-party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. In addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems. 

Notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

exposing us to liability. As attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers. Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. Additionally, the SEC issued guidance in February 2018 stating that, as a public company, we are expected to have controls and procedures that relate to cybersecurity disclosure, and are required to disclose information relating to certain cyber-attacks or other information security breaches in disclosures required to be made under the federal securities laws. Further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services. 

Further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, and the COVID-19 pandemic response, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. We expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack. 

We may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws. In providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. If any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. Potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. Depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. 

See Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk management - Operational risk&#8221; of our 2019 Form 10-K and Item 2 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk management - Operational risk&#8221; of this Form 10-Q for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing operational risks. 

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

