 Item 1. Business 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Organization 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC USA Inc. ("HSBC USA") is incorporated under the laws of the State of Maryland and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. ("HSBC North America"), which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc ("HSBC" and, together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Group"). HSBC USA's principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries. In this Form 10-K, HSBC USA and its subsidiaries are referred to as "HUSI," "we," "us" and "our." 

HSBC Group 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC Group aims to be the leading international bank helping personal, wealth and corporate clients thrive through its deep heritage and is a leading provider of transactional banking products and services with a geographical network which provides clients and investors access to what it believes are the most attractive growth opportunities. HSBC Group aspires to be the preferred international financial partner for its clients. HSBC Group's strategy centers around four key areas: Focus, Digitize, Energize and Transition. 

HSBC North America Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC North America is the holding company for HSBC Group's operations in the United States. The principal subsidiaries of HSBC North America at December 31, 2023 were HSBC USA, HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. ("HMUS"), a holding company for certain subsidiaries primarily associated with global banking and markets businesses, and HSBC Technology &#38; Services (USA) Inc. ("HTSU"), a provider of information technology and centralized operational and support services including risk management, compliance, operations, finance, tax, legal, human resources, corporate affairs and other services shared among the subsidiaries of HSBC North America and the HSBC Group. HSBC USA's principal U.S. banking subsidiary is HSBC Bank USA, National Association (together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Bank USA"). Under the oversight of HSBC North America, HUSI works with its affiliates to maximize opportunities and efficiencies in HSBC Group's operations in the United States. These affiliates do so by providing each other with, among other things, alternative sources of liquidity to fund operations and expertise in specialized corporate functions and services through the pooling of resources within HTSU to provide shared, allocated support functions to all of HSBC North America's subsidiaries. In addition, clients of HSBC Bank USA and other affiliates are investors in debt issued by HSBC USA and/or HSBC Bank USA, providing significant sources of liquidity to both entities. HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. ("HSI"), a registered broker dealer and a subsidiary of HMUS, generally leads or participates as underwriter of all HUSI domestic issuances of term debt. While neither HSBC USA nor HSBC Bank USA has received advantaged pricing, the underwriting fees and commissions paid to HSI historically have benefited the HSBC Group. 

HSBC USA Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

In support of HSBC Group's strategy, our U.S. operations are focused on the core activities of our global businesses and a Corporate Center, as discussed below, and the positioning of our activities to be the leading international banking partner in the United States. 

&#8226; Our Wealth and Personal Banking ("WPB") business provides a range of banking and wealth products and services to individuals and entities, including globally connected affluent, high net worth and ultra-high net worth individuals and their families, focusing on internationally-minded customers in large metropolitan centers on the West and East coasts. 

&#8226; Our Commercial Banking ("CMB") business serves corporate and business banking clients, focused on selected large cities with strong international trade ties. 

&#8226; Our Global Banking and Markets ("GBM") business serves top-tier multinational clients across the Americas and globally. 

&#8226; Our Corporate Center ("CC") comprises certain centralized activities and functions in order to better reflect the way we manage our businesses. 

HSBC Bank USA, HSBC USA's principal U.S. banking subsidiary, is a national banking association. Through HSBC Bank USA, we offer our customers a wide range of commercial and consumer banking products and related financial services. HSBC 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Bank USA is also an international dealer in derivative instruments denominated in U.S. dollars and other currencies, focusing on structuring transactions to meet clients' needs. 

HSBC USA also owns a nationally chartered limited purpose bank subsidiary, HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), National Association ("HTCD"), the primary activities of which are providing personal trust services. The impact of HTCD's operations on HSBC USA's consolidated balance sheets and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was not material. 

At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 423 thousand customers, some of whom are customers of more than one of our businesses. Customers in the states of California and New York accounted for 38 percent and 29 percent, respectively, of our total outstanding commercial real estate loans and residential mortgage loans. 

We report financial information to our ultimate parent, HSBC, in accordance with HSBC Group accounting and reporting policies, which apply International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). As a result, our segment results are prepared and presented using financial information prepared on the basis of HSBC Group's accounting and reporting policies ("Group Reporting Basis"). We continue, however, to monitor capital adequacy and report to regulatory agencies in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). For additional financial information relating to our business and operating segments, as well as a summary of the significant differences between U.S. GAAP and the Group Reporting Basis as they impact our results, see Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Wealth and Personal Banking Our WPB business segment provides a range of banking and wealth products and services to individuals and entities through our wealth centers, online channels as well as dedicated relationship managers and centralized teams. Banking and certain exempt securities services are provided through HSBC Bank USA, brokerage and investment advisory services and annuities are provided through our affiliate HSI and additional insurance products are offered through the bank's subsidiary, HSBC Insurance Agency (USA) Inc. These services include asset-driven services, such as credit and lending; liability-driven services, such as deposit taking; and account services and fee- or commission-driven services, such as investment advisory and securities brokerage; as well as the sale of certain third-party insurance solutions. WPB is focused on growing its wealth and banking business in key urban centers with strong international connectivity across the United States, including New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Miami and Washington, D.C. WPB serves globally connected affluent, high net worth and ultra-high net worth individuals and entities with a focus on multi-generational families, business executives and entrepreneurs who require sophisticated solutions to help meet their most complex needs domestically and abroad, with many customers sourced in collaboration with our other business lines. WPB works with these customers to provide tailored, coordinated and innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while seeking to optimize returns by offering a wide range of products and services, including banking, liquidity management, investment services, custody, tailored lending, trust and fiduciary services, insurance, family wealth and philanthropy advisory services. 

Commercial Banking The goal of our CMB business segment is to be the banking partner of choice for international businesses building on our rich heritage, international capabilities and customer relationships to enable global connectivity. CMB strives to execute this vision and strategy by focusing on key markets with high concentrations of international connectivity. Our CMB segment serves the markets through three client groups, notably Large Corporate, Middle Market and Business Banking. Supporting our three client groups is our International Subsidiary Banking team, which provides solutions to international subsidiaries operating in the United States. We also have a specialized Commercial Real Estate group, which focuses on selective business opportunities in markets where we have strong portfolio expertise. This structure allows us to align our resources in order to efficiently deliver suitable products and services based on our clients' needs and abilities. Global Payments Solutions ("GPS"), Global Trade and Receivables Finance ("GTRF"), Lending and Transaction Management, Global Banking and Markets and Securities Services are key product groups with which CMB partners to deliver the global connections and related products and services required by customers. Whether it is through commercial centers or via HSBC net , our online banking channel , CMB provides customers with the products and services needed to grow their businesses internationally and delivers those products and services through its relationship managers who operate within a robust, customer focused compliance and risk culture, and collaborate across HSBC Group to capture a larger percentage of a relationship. 

Following the purchase by HSBC Group of Silicon Valley Bank United Kingdom ("U.K."), CMB has a team of bankers in the United States to support a broad range of innovation economy companies across all stages of growth in technology, life sciences, and healthcare, and their investors. HSBC Innovation Banking is a network of specialist expertise and capabilities, focused on the innovation economy, under one distinct brand. This network supports innovation businesses through all of their life stages: from early-stage, growth, through to late-stage public and private corporates; and supports them with the broader HSBC platform. Globally, HSBC Innovation Banking is expected to connect innovation centers like Boston, New York and the Bay Area, with start-up innovation hubs like Israel, the U.K. and Hong Kong. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Global Banking and Markets Our GBM business supports HSBC's global strategy by leveraging the HSBC Group's advantages and scale, strength in developed and emerging markets and product expertise in order to focus on delivering international products to U.S. clients and local products to international clients, with New York as the hub for the Americas business. GBM provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients. GBM clients are served by sector-focused teams that bring together relationship managers and product specialists to develop financial solutions that meet individual client needs. With a focus on providing client connectivity between the emerging markets and developed markets, GBM aims to develop a comprehensive understanding of each client's financial requirements with a long-term relationship management approach. In addition to GBM clients, GBM also provides financial solutions to WPB and CMB clients where those clients have needs that require the product set that GBM has available. 

Our GBM business is comprised of three distinct operating segments: 

&#8226; Global Banking ("GB") provides banking and financing advice and solutions for sovereign, corporate and institutional clients, including loans, working capital, GTRF product and service offerings, GPS product and service offerings, leveraged and acquisition finance, real assets and structured finance, mergers and acquisitions advisory, as well as capital raising in the debt and equity capital markets. 

&#8226; Markets and Securities Services ("MSS") provides 24-hour coverage and knowledge of world-wide local markets, including services in credit and rates, foreign exchange, precious metals trading, equities and securities services. MSS includes revenues for certain products and services sold to GB clients that are not reflected in the GB segment. For certain derivative activities, MSS receives performance fees associated with trading activity booked on the balance sheet of HSBC Bank plc. 

&#8226; Global Banking and Markets Other ("GBM Other") includes activities performed on behalf of other HSBC affiliates, allocated Markets Treasury and certain corporate funding and liquidity charges not assigned to products. 

Corporate Center Our CC segment includes certain corporate function and technology costs, certain debt issued for which fair value option accounting was elected and related derivatives, certain affiliate transactions, certain investments held for Community Reinvestment Act purposes, tax credit investments, adjustments to the fair value of HSBC shares held for stock plans and, in 2023, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation special assessment fees. Prior to 2023, our CC segment also included our legacy structured credit products which were unwound in 2021, and certain costs incurred related to our strategic plan to restructure our operations which was completed in 2022, primarily consisting of lease impairment and other related costs as well as support service project costs and severance costs allocated to us from HTSU and other HSBC affiliates. 

Our Markets Treasury function is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of our Asset and Liability Management Committee. Markets Treasury also manages our structural interest rate position within a limit structure. The majority of the liquidity is invested in interest bearing deposits with Federal Reserve banks and U.S. Government and other high quality securities. Markets Treasury is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to manage interest rate risk. Derivative activity comprises predominantly the use of interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow hedging relationships. Credit risk in Markets Treasury is predominantly limited to short-term exposure created by exposure to banks as well as high quality sovereigns or agencies which constitute the majority of their liquidity portfolio. Markets Treasury manages interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk. Markets Treasury income statement and balance sheet results are allocated to each of the global businesses based upon tangible equity levels and levels of any surplus liabilities. 

Funding 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We fund our operations using a diversified deposit base, supplemented by issuing short-term and long-term unsecured debt, secured financing repurchase agreements utilizing High Quality Liquid Assets ("HQLA"), accessing the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, issuing preferred equity, and, as necessary, receiving capital contributions from our parent, HSBC North America. Emphasis is placed on maintaining stable deposit balances. In 2023, our primary source of funds continued to be deposits, augmented by issuances of commercial paper, securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and term debt. 

Numerous factors, both internal and external, may impact our access to, and the costs associated with, both retail and wholesale sources of funding. These factors may include our debt ratings, overall economic conditions, overall capital markets volatility, the counterparty credit limits of investors to the HSBC Group, and our management of the credit risks inherent in our business and customer base. 

A detailed description of our sources and availability of funding are set forth in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&#38;A"). 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The cash generated by these funding sources is primarily used to service our debt obligations, originate new loans, purchase investment securities, pay preferred dividends and, as available and appropriate, common dividends or common distributions to our parent. 

Human Capital 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

At December 31, 2023, we had 2,040 employees. We rely heavily on Human Resource ("HR") services provided by an affiliate, HTSU, which supports our HR related activities including HR Operations, Performance and Reward, Learning and Talent Development, Resourcing and Onboarding, and Employee Relations while working with our business segments and support functions to help achieve our business objectives. 

By focusing on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion, and engagement, as well as building our peoples' skills and capabilities for now and for the future, we aim to create an environment where our people can fulfill their potential. We use confidential surveys to assess progress and make changes in response to issues raised in the surveys. We promote a collaborative culture where our people feel connected, supported to speak up and where our leaders encourage feedback. Where we make organizational changes, we support our people through the change. 

How we listen to our employees We capture our employees' views and engage in dialogue with employees based on their feedback on a range of topics, such as our strategy, culture, behavior, well-being, pay, performance, and working environment through our annual employee survey, Snapshot. Results are presented to the U.S. Executive Committee, the Board of Directors, as well as the Group Executive Committee and relevant management committees. 

When things go wrong HSBC Confidential is a global whistleblowing platform that enables our people, past and present, to raise concerns in confidence. We do not condone or tolerate any acts of retaliation against those who raise concerns. 

Whistleblowing concerns are investigated thoroughly and independently. Remedial action, taken where appropriate, includes disciplinary action, dismissal, and adjustments to variable pay and performance ratings. 

We rely on our employees to deliver fair outcomes for our customers and make sure we act with integrity in the financial markets. A high standard of personal conduct is critical to our ability to live up to this commitment and ensure a healthy working environment. We manage misconduct by taking action, as appropriate, up to and including dismissal. We report cases on a regular basis to management committees. Bullying and harassment of any type are not tolerated, and we have strict processes to manage this behavior. 

Remuneration Our pay and performance strategy aims to reward competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance in an effort to attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance or experience, while performing their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders. 

The quality and commitment of our employees is fundamental to our success and, accordingly, we aim to attract, retain, and motivate them. As trust and relationships are vital in our business, our goal is to recruit those who are committed to a long-term career with us. 

Certain employees participate in HSBC's Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Restricted Share Plan. See Note 21, "Share-Based Plans," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further detail. 

Inclusion and Culture We are committed to a company-wide approach to inclusion and culture that values difference. We want to embrace our employees' diverse ideas, styles, and perspectives to reflect and understand our customers, communities, suppliers, and investors. HSBC's Global Principles outline that our employees must treat each other with dignity and respect, creating an inclusive culture to support equal opportunities. We do not tolerate discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimization. Our U.S. Executive Committee members are responsible for our inclusion and culture agenda. 

Our leadership team has agreed to a set of six pillars through which we believe we can make meaningful progress toward advancing inclusion for all under-represented and diverse groups. These six pillars comprise the following objectives: 

&#8226; Accountability &#8211; To build upon the foundation of our efforts in inclusion and culture and to expand beyond that to reach our customers and communities that we serve. 

&#8226; Recruiting and Retention &#8211; To increase the pipeline of diverse candidates, focusing on the ethnicities with the lowest representation. 

&#8226; Representation &#8211; To improve representation across diversity groups, particularly at the more senior levels. 

&#8226; Advancing the Conversation &#8211; To encourage and actively facilitate dialogue about inclusion and equality. 

&#8226; Strategic Giving and Community Engagement &#8211; To target strategic giving to support equality-focused and diverse organizations and initiatives. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; Who we do Business with &#8211; To accelerate our commitment to improving representation of minority-owned companies among our vendors. 

We are committed to increasing gender and underrepresented demographic groups in senior leadership roles. 

Globally, HSBC previously announced specific ambitions to improve the diversity of senior leadership and increase opportunities for our female and ethnic minority colleagues around the world. HSBC in the United States is supporting and contributing to those actions. 

We review our pay practices internally and with independent third parties and adjust if pay differences are identified that are not due to objective, tangible reasons such as performance or skills and experience. We have a gender pay gap that is driven by the composition of our workforce. There continues to be more men than women in senior, high-paid roles, and more women in junior roles. We are committed to reducing our gender pay gap as we deliver on our goal to increase the number of women in senior roles. 

Our employees are encouraged to participate in our Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"). The ERGs are voluntary, company-endorsed employee groups dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment within the context of our mission, values, goals, business parameters and objectives. In addition, ERGs not only support organizational inclusion and culture efforts, but identify and lobby for initiatives that will improve the sense of belonging for its members. ERGs are invaluable in providing the organization with feedback from employees to decision-makers and serve as a touch point for engaging all employees in diversity efforts. 

Our commitment to inclusion and culture is reflected in our learning and talent programs. We pay specific attention on how we select and promote candidates for roles and how colleagues can readily access opportunities. 

Employment of people with a disability We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in this commitment. The recruitment, training, career development and promotion of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. We continually look for ways to support employees with disabilities. For example, we use Zoom Closed Captioning, which through the use of Communication Access Real-Time Transcriber generates closed captions in real time to support colleagues with hearing disabilities. 

Learning and skills development We understand that to have a skilled and capable workforce for today and the future, we must invest in our employees at all stages of their careers. We measure our success through our retention, engagement scores, internal mobility, and from external recognition. 

We provide training through HSBC University, our online learning portal and global network of training centers. HSBC University assists our employees in developing technical and role-based skills, as well as personal skills. We put a strong emphasis on leadership skills to foster a culture of curiosity, innovation, collaboration, and performance. Our required training has a strong foundation in good conduct, with topics including managing non-financial risk, data privacy, cybersecurity, anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-bribery and corruption, insider risk, competition law, raising concerns, workplace harassment and well-being. We also introduced a range of self-directed resources and workshops to improve people manager skills, team cohesion, performance, and future skills. 

We require mandatory training on our values, strategy, and approach to risk management. This helps keep our people aware of the risks we face so they can make better decisions to grow our business in a safe way. 

Building for the future Developing our future leaders is critical to our long-term success. The U.S. Executive Committee dedicates time to articulate the current and future capabilities required to deliver the business strategy and identify successors for our most critical roles. Successors then undergo robust assessment and participate in our executive development programs, which have been designed and delivered in collaboration with some of the world's best business schools. Potential successors for senior roles also benefit from coaching and mentoring and are moved into roles that will build their skills and capabilities. 

Developing core skills Our suite of manager training and skills development focus on the skills that we believe are most important to ensure HUSI is fit for the future - leading and supporting teams through change. Our managers are the critical link to supporting individuals and teams. 

Risk management remains central to development at HSBC and is part of our mandatory training for all colleagues. For colleagues in roles at higher risk of exposure to financial wrongdoing, we provide more in-depth training on financial risks such as money laundering, sanctions, bribery, and corruption. We also have programs and resources to address specific areas of risk, such as those relating to the management of third-party suppliers. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Our cyber hub brings together training, insights, events, and campaigns to provide a one-stop shop on how to combat cyber-crime. We support leaders and model developers with training that helps them understand and apply our principles on the ethical use of big data and artificial intelligence. 

Our sustainability academy provides learning for all to better understand HSBC Group's climate strategy, educate on climate awareness, and provide sustainability resources specific to each business area. 

Health and safety We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for everyone. We strive to ensure best health and safety management practices are adopted across HUSI or standards that reflect HSBC core values. 

Supporting our employees through organizational change To ensure we have the right roles in the right locations, our businesses regularly re-evaluate their structures. We strive to support colleagues closely through all organizational change, which will include those who will be affected by our business update. Our focus is to prioritize retention of our permanent employees through mechanisms such as redeployment. Redundancies were necessary in 2023, and we sought to treat people fairly and responsibly. We use objective and appropriate selection criteria for redundancies. We prohibit selection on grounds linked to personal characteristics, for example gender, race, age or having raised past concerns. Additionally, we provided employees access to resources via employee assistance programs and career transition services. 

Regulation and Competition 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Regulation We are subject to, among other things, an extensive statutory and regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies ("BHCs"), financial holding companies and banks. U.S. regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for safety and soundness of banks, and the protection of the interests of depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole rather than the protection of security holders and creditors. 

Bank Holding Company Supervision As a BHC, we are subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHC Act"), and to inspection, examination and supervision by our primary regulator, the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"). HSBC USA is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

In addition, the FRB requires certain large non-U.S. banks with significant operations in the United States, such as HSBC, to establish a single intermediate holding company ("IHC") to hold all of their U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The HSBC Group operates in the United States through such an IHC structure (i.e., HSBC North America). 

Financial Holding Company Regulation HSBC USA and its parent HSBC North America qualified as financial holding companies pursuant to the amendments to the BHC Act effected by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 ("GLB Act"). Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities than BHCs. Under regulations implemented by the FRB, if any financial holding company, or any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company, ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the FRB may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, the FRB may require divestiture of the holding company's depository institutions or its affiliates engaged in broader financial activities in reliance on the GLB Act if the deficiencies persist. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the "CRA"), as amended, the FRB must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for BHCs that are not financial holding companies. 

Under the FRB supervisory rating system, IHCs and large BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including HSBC North America and HSBC USA, receive separate ratings from the FRB for (i) capital planning and positions, (ii) liquidity risk management and positions, and (iii) governance and controls. A covered BHC that receives a deficient rating for any of the three components is not considered to be "well managed." 

We are generally prohibited under the BHC Act from acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 percent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially all the assets of, or exercising control over, any U.S. bank, BHC or many other types of depository institutions and/or their holding companies without the prior approval of the FRB and, potentially, other U.S. banking regulatory agencies. 

The GLB Act and the regulations issued thereunder contain a number of other provisions that affect our operations and those of our subsidiary banks, including regulations and restrictions on the activities we may conduct and the types of businesses and entities we may acquire. Furthermore, other provisions contain detailed requirements relating to the financial privacy of consumers. In addition, the so-called 'push-out' provisions of the GLB Act removed the blanket exemption from registration for 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

securities and brokerage activities conducted in banks (including HSBC Bank USA) under the Exchange Act. Applicable regulations allow banks to continue to avoid registration as a broker or dealer only if they conduct securities activities that fall within a set of defined exemptions. 

Consumer Regulation &#160; Our consumer businesses operate in a highly regulated environment. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act" or "Dodd-Frank") created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), which has a broad range of powers to administer and enforce a federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, including the authority to regulate credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services and providers of those products and services. The CFPB has the authority to issue regulations to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with consumer financial products or services and to ensure features of any consumer financial products or services are fully, accurately and effectively disclosed to consumers. The CFPB also has authority to examine large banks, including HSBC Bank USA, and their affiliates for compliance with those regulations. Our consumer lending businesses are also subject to additional laws relating to consumer protection including, without limitation, fair lending, fair debt collection practices, mortgage loan origination and servicing obligations, bankruptcy, military service member protections, use of credit reports, privacy matters, and disclosure of credit terms and correction of billing errors. Local, state and national regulatory and enforcement agencies continue efforts to address perceived problems within the mortgage lending and credit card industries through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders' operations in consumer lending markets. There continues to be a significant amount of legislative and regulatory activity, nationally, locally and at the state level, designed to limit certain lending practices while mandating certain servicing procedures. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws, as well as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act affect the ability of banks, including HSBC Bank USA, to collect outstanding balances. 

Supervision of Bank Subsidiaries Our subsidiary national banks, HSBC Bank USA and HTCD, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). These subsidiary banks are subject to additional regulation and supervision by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), the FRB and the CFPB. HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to banking laws and regulations that place various restrictions and requirements on their activities, investments, operations and administration, including the establishment and maintenance of branch offices, capital and reserve requirements, deposits and borrowings, investment and lending activities, payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, overall compliance and risk management and numerous other matters. 

HSBC Bank USA is subject to the CRA, which imposes affirmative, ongoing obligations on depository institutions to meet the credit needs of their local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. In October 2023, the federal banking agencies finalized a rulemaking to amend their CRA regulations. The rule significantly expands the number of areas in which a bank is evaluated, materially changes the tests used to evaluate the bank in those areas, and expands the data a bank must collect and report. We are analyzing the effects of the final rule, which could increase HSBC Bank USA's obligations and compliance costs necessary to achieve a "Satisfactory" or "Outstanding" rating under the CRA framework, which factor into the ability of banks to expand and engage in new activities. The rule is effective as of April 1, 2024, but with an extended transition period. Many requirements do not take effect until January 1, 2026 and certain other requirements, including new reporting requirements, are further delayed until January 1, 2027. 

Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks. Dividends payable by HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a "recent earnings" test and an "undivided profits" test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year's net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank's undivided profits account. HSBC Bank USA is also required to maintain appropriate amounts of capital against its assets as discussed further in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Federal banking laws and regulations apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For instance, only a "well capitalized" insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. 

The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of HSBC Bank USA may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the FRB in addition to those generally applicable to HSBC Bank USA under OCC rules. These branches are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate. 

Under longstanding FRB policy, which Dodd-Frank codified as a statutory requirement, HSBC USA is expected to act as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Affiliate Transaction Restrictions HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to significant restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other "covered transactions" with HSBC USA or other affiliates. Covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, derivatives and certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from, or taking the credit risk by, a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Dodd-Frank expanded these affiliate transaction restrictions to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative, securities lending/borrowing or repurchase transaction with an affiliate. The FRB has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions. A bank's transactions with its non-bank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm's length terms. Certain Edge Act subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA are limited in the amount of funds they can provide to other affiliates including their parent. Amounts above their level of invested capital generally must be secured with U.S. government securities. 

Unless an exemption applies, or a specific waiver is granted by the FRB, covered transactions by a bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10 percent of the bank's capital and surplus, and all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate are limited to 20 percent of a bank's capital and surplus. Loans and extensions of credit to affiliates by a bank generally are to be secured in specified amounts with specific types of collateral. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements As a financial services holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital rules issued by U.S. banking regulators including Basel III (the "Basel III rule"). A bank or BHC's failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory actions and possibly additional discretionary actions by its regulators. Generally, BHC regulatory capital compliance is performed at a consolidated level within the United States at HSBC North America, our parent, and also separately for HSBC Bank USA. However, we do present HSBC USA's capital ratios in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in our MD&#38;A, as well as, together with HSBC Bank USA's, in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our ultimate parent, HSBC, is also subject to regulatory capital requirements under U.K. law. 

Basel III Overview The Basel III rule establishes minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for banks and BHCs. HSBC North America, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA each calculate their risk-based capital requirements for credit risk under the Standardized Approach in the Basel III rule. To be categorized as "well capitalized" under the Basel III rule, a banking institution must maintain capital equal to or in excess of the ratios reflected in the table included in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and must not be subject to a directive, order or written agreement to meet and maintain specific capital levels. The federal bank regulatory agencies may, however, set higher capital requirements for an individual bank or BHC when particular circumstances warrant. Under the Basel III rule, all banking organizations are subject to a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4 percent. Additionally, certain banking organizations are subject to a supplementary leverage ratio ("SLR") of 3 percent (calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to total leverage exposure, which includes balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet items) and a countercyclical capital buffer (when in effect) of up to 2.5 percent in addition to the capital conservation buffer discussed further below. 

Tailoring Rules In 2019, the FRB and the other federal banking agencies jointly finalized rules to implement the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards for large BHCs and foreign banking organizations (the "Tailoring Rules"). The Tailoring Rules assign each BHC and IHC with $50 billion or more in total U.S. assets into one of five classifications (Categories I through IV, and 'other firms') based on its relative size and complexity and assessed on asset size, cross-jurisdictional activity, reliance on short-term wholesale funding, nonbank asset size, and off-balance sheet exposures. Under the Tailoring Rules, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are subject to Category IV standards and are not subject to the SLR or the countercyclical capital buffer. 

HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA are required to maintain minimum capital ratios as follows: 

##TABLE_START Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio Tier 1 Capital Ratio Total Capital Ratio Tier 1 Leverage Ratio Regulatory minimum ratio 4.5 % 6.0 % 8.0 % 4.0 % Plus: Capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.5 % &#8212; Regulatory minimum ratio plus capital conservation buffer 7.0 % 8.5 % 10.5 % 4.0 % ##TABLE_END

Currently, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA hold capital in excess of these regulatory minimums plus a fixed 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. If our risk-based capital ratios were to fall to levels within the capital conservation buffer, we would become subject to increasing restrictions on our capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. 

In July 2023, U.S. banking regulators proposed changes to the regulatory capital rules applicable to U.S. banks, BHCs and IHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more. These changes are intended to be broadly consistent with revisions to Basel III finalized by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2017. The U.S. proposal would end the use of internal 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

models for credit risk, credit valuation adjustments, and operational risk, eliminate the accumulated other comprehensive income opt-out for Category IV banking organizations, create an expanded risk-based credit capital approach in addition to retaining a modified version of the current standardized approach, and make changes to the modeling requirements for market risk. These proposals would not be effective until July 1, 2025 at the earliest. Certain aspects of the proposal would be subject to a three-year phase-in period. We are analyzing the proposed changes, including the timing of implementation, to determine the potential effects on capital requirements. Based on the foregoing, if adopted as proposed, we expect an increase in the capital requirements of HSBC North America, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA during the phase-in period and thereafter. 

We continue to review the composition of our capital structure in light of these developments. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing The FRB requires certain U.S. top-tier BHCs and IHCs, including HSBC North America, to comply with the FRB's capital plan rule and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") program, as well as the supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. These stress tests are forward looking exercises to assess the impact of hypothetical macroeconomic baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB on the financial condition and capital adequacy of a CCAR firm over a nine quarter planning horizon. As a Category IV firm, HSBC North America is subject to supervisory stress testing on a biennial basis, and it may opt-in to such testing in an "off year" in order to recalibrate its stress capital buffer ("SCB") which is discussed further below. The FRB continues to supervise Category IV firms on an ongoing basis, including evaluation of the capital adequacy and capital planning processes during off-cycle years. HSBC Bank USA is not subject to the OCC's stress testing requirements, which require national banks with $250 billion or more in total assets to conduct company-run stress tests. 

As part of the CCAR process, the FRB undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of CCAR firms, including HSBC North America, based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the FRB that describes the company's planned capital actions during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by the FRB under different hypothetical macroeconomic scenarios, including a supervisory baseline scenario and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB. 

The FRB has modified the static capital conservation buffer for CCAR firms to incorporate an institution-specific SCB which is floored at 2.5 percent. The SCB equals (i) a firm's projected decline in common equity tier 1 under the supervisory severely adverse stress testing scenario plus (ii) one year of planned common stock dividends and is recalibrated based on the results of a firm's most recent supervisory stress test. HSBC North America continues to review the composition of its capital structure in light of this rule. HSBC North America submitted its 2023 CCAR capital plan in April 2023. As discussed above, HSBC North America is subject to supervisory stress testing on a biennial basis and, therefore, did not participate in the FRB's 2023 supervisory stress test. As a result, HSBC North America's SCB is based on the results of the 2022 supervisory stress test. The SCB applies only to HSBC North America; HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA remain subject to the static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. 

Liquidity Risk Management The Basel Committee has adopted two required liquidity metrics: the liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR"), designed to be a short-term measure to ensure banks have sufficient HQLA to cover net stressed cash outflows over the next 30 days, and the net stable funding ratio ("NSFR"), which is a longer term measure with a 12-month time horizon to ensure a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. 

Certain U.S. banking organizations, including HSBC North America, are subject to the U.S. LCR rule, and both HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA calculate and report their LCR to U.S. regulators on a daily basis. Under the Tailoring Rules, a 70 percent LCR requirement applies to Category IV firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding that equals or exceeds $50 billion. As a result, a LCR of 100 percent or higher reflects an unencumbered HQLA balance that is equal to or exceeds 70 percent of a Category IV firm's liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. 

Certain large banking organizations, including HSBC North America, are also subject to the U.S. NSFR rule, and both HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA calculate and report their NSFR to U.S. regulators. Under the Tailoring Rules, a 70 percent NSFR requirement applies to Category IV firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding that equals or exceeds $50 billion. As a result, a NSFR of 100 percent or more reflects an available stable funding balance from liabilities and capital over the next 12 months that is equal to or exceeds 70 percent of a Category IV firm's required amount of funding for assets and off-balance sheet exposures. 

As a Category IV firm, HSBC North America is subject to liquidity stress testing and related liquidity buffer and liquidity risk management requirements. 

Long-Term Debt and TLAC The U.S. IHCs of non-U.S. global systemically important banks ("G-SIBs"), including HSBC North America, must maintain minimum amounts of total loss-absorbing capacity ("TLAC"), which includes minimum levels of Tier 1 capital and long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria, and a related TLAC buffer. The TLAC rules also include 'clean holding company requirements' that impose limitations on the types of financial transactions that HSBC North 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

America may engage in. HSBC North America maintains long-term debt to support compliance with the TLAC rules and will continue to assess if additional long-term debt is needed to remain compliant in future periods. 

In August 2023, U.S. banking regulators released a proposal that would require certain U.S. banks, BHCs and IHCs to issue and maintain long-term debt to improve resolvability. If adopted as proposed, HSBC Bank USA and HTCD would be required to issue minimum levels of internal long-term debt to either HSBC USA or HSBC North America, phased-in over a three-year period. HSBC North America is already subject to long-term debt and TLAC requirements as an IHC of a non-U.S. G-SIB. 

U.S. Resolution Planning Large international banks, such as HSBC (generally with regard to its U.S. operations), and large insured depository institutions, such as HSBC Bank USA, are required to file resolution plans identifying, among other things, material subsidiaries and core business lines and describing what strategy would be followed to resolve the institution in the event of significant financial distress, including identifying how insured bank subsidiaries would be adequately protected from risk created by other affiliates. The failure to cure deficiencies in a resolution plan would enable the FRB and the FDIC, acting jointly, to impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on growth, activities or operations and, if such failure persists, require the divestiture of assets or operations. 

Under the FRB and FDIC rule implementing the resolution planning requirements for depository institution holding companies (the "SIFI Plan") in the Dodd-Frank Act, HSBC is required to file a SIFI Plan every three years. HSBC's last SIFI Plan was a targeted resolution plan submitted in December 2021. The FRB and FDIC provided feedback on this targeted plan in December 2022. The FRB and FDIC did not identify any shortcomings or deficiencies as a result of this review of HSBC's 2021 targeted plan, but noted areas where further progress will help improve HSBC's preparation for a rapid and orderly resolution of its U.S. subsidiaries and operations that may be addressed in HSBC's next plan submission. As the combined U.S. operations of HSBC moved from Category III to Category IV shortly after its last submission, it is now a triennial reduced filer, which requires the submission of reduced plans every three years. The next SIFI Plan submission is due on July 1, 2025. Under the FDIC's separate resolution plan requirements for insured depository institutions (the "IDI Plan"), banks with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including HSBC Bank USA, are required to submit an IDI Plan every three years. HSBC Bank USA submitted its latest IDI Plan in December 2022. In August 2023, the FDIC issued a proposal that would increase the frequency of, and substantive requirements applicable to, IDI Plans. If finalized as proposed, HSBC Bank USA would be required to submit an IDI Plan every two years (with an informational supplement in the off years) and would become subject to increased content requirements and an emphasis on capabilities testing and engagement with the FDIC. The FRB has also separately established a framework for recovery plans, although HSBC is not currently required to submit a recovery plan to U.S. regulators unless specifically requested to do so. 

Non-U.S. Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements HSBC North America and HSBC USA also continue to support HSBC's implementation of the Basel III framework, as adopted by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority. We supply data regarding credit risk, operational risk and market risk to support HSBC's regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset calculations and information relevant to HSBC's compliance with applicable liquidity requirements. 

General Our capital resources are summarized under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in MD&#38;A. Capital amounts and ratios for HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA are summarized in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements" of the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, bank regulators propose amendments to or issue interpretations of risk-based or leverage capital guidelines. Such proposals or interpretations could, upon implementation, affect reported capital ratios and net risk-weighted assets. 

Deposit Insurance Deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are insured by the FDIC, subject to the limitations and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC's regulations. The standard deposit insurance amount is $250,000 per depositor for each account category. HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to risk based assessments from the FDIC. Such assessments determine the deposit insurance costs paid by HSBC Bank USA and HTCD to the FDIC. While the assessments are generally payable quarterly, the FDIC also has the authority to impose special assessments to prevent the Deposit Insurance Fund from declining to an unacceptable level. 

In November 2023, the FDIC issued a final rule that imposes a special assessment on certain FDIC-insured banks, including HSBC Bank USA, to recover the loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund arising from the protection of uninsured depositors following a determination of systemic risk in connection with the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. The special assessment is based on an insured depository institution's estimated uninsured deposits reported as of December 31, 2022 and will be assessed over eight quarterly periods beginning with the first quarter of 2024. The special assessment results in $243 million of additional deposit insurance assessment fees for HUSI, which were accrued in the fourth quarter of 2023. Because the estimated loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund will be periodically adjusted as actual losses are incurred, the FDIC retains the ability to cease collection early or extend the special assessment collection period, as needed. 

Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering We are subject to a framework of federal laws designed to combat money laundering and financing of terrorism, mainly the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as related regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and federal banking regulators (collectively, "AML laws"). AML laws require 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

financial institutions (including insured U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-based branches and agencies of foreign banks, U.S. broker-dealers and various other entities) to implement an AML compliance program that is reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Programs must include, among other things, policies and procedures to verify their customers&#8217; identities, verify the identities of beneficial owners of legal entity customers, conduct customer due diligence and enhanced due diligence on certain customers and monitor for and report on suspicious activity. We are examined for compliance with AML laws by our federal banking regulators. 

Cybersecurity The federal banking regulators regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management standards among financial institutions. Financial institutions are expected to design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers' accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. Further, a financial institution's management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution's operations after a cyberattack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyberattack. If we fail to observe the regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. 

The FRB, FDIC, and OCC mandate that a banking organization notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours of identifying a "computer-security incident" that has or is reasonably likely to disrupt or degrade its (i) ability to carry out banking operations, activities, or processes, or deliver banking products and services to a material portion of its customer base; (ii) business lines, including associated operations, services, functions, and support, that upon failure would result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value; or (iii) operations, including associated services, functions, and support, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. 

In July 2023, the SEC adopted disclosure rules and amendments regarding cybersecurity risk management, governance and incident reporting by public companies. Under the new rules, public companies, including HUSI, are required to file a Form 8-K within four business days of determining that it had suffered a material cybersecurity incident, and file amended Form 8-Ks with disclosure updates to the extent certain information remains unknown at the time of the initial filing. The new rules also include disclosure requirements regarding policies and procedures for the identification and management of cybersecurity risks, oversight and management over cybersecurity risks, and expertise in cybersecurity matters. For more information about our cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance provided in accordance with the new rules, see Item 1C, "Cybersecurity," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Cybersecurity remains an area of significant regulatory focus, and state regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity to continue, and are continually monitoring developments in the states. 

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits The FRB limits credit exposures to single counterparties for large BHCs and IHCs. As a Category IV firm, HSBC North America is not directly subject to these single counterparty credit limits. However, HSBC North America, together with its subsidiaries, could become subject to a separate limit on its exposures to certain unaffiliated systemically important counterparties if its parent, HSBC, cannot certify its compliance with a large exposure regime in the U.K. that is consistent with the Basel large exposure framework. 

Derivatives Regulation Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter ("OTC") derivatives markets, including credit default, equity, foreign exchange and interest rate swaps. Implementation of Title VII is the responsibility of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") (for swaps based on non-securities underliers or broad-based security indices), the SEC (for swaps based on individual securities and narrow-based security indices, known as "security- based swaps") and, to a lesser extent, U.S. banking regulators (for certain rules applicable to banks). The CFTC has implemented the most significant provisions of Title VII applicable to swaps. In particular, certain swap dealers, including HSBC Bank USA, have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and become members of the National Futures Association, subjecting them to an extensive array of corporate governance requirements, business conduct standards, reporting requirements, mandatory clearing and trading of certain swaps and other regulatory standards affecting their derivatives businesses. 

Also, HSBC Bank USA engages in equity and credit derivatives businesses that are subject to the SEC's jurisdiction to regulate security-based swaps under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act. The SEC has finalized the key rules governing the application of Title VII requirements to security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. HSBC Bank USA is registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

In addition, HSBC Bank USA is subject to the margin rules adopted by the U.S. banking regulators that are applicable to prudentially regulated swap dealers and security-based swap dealers, which impose initial and variation margin requirements to uncleared swaps and security-based swaps between HSBC Bank USA and certain counterparties. 

The " Volcker Rule " The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities' investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain conditions. A banking entity with significant U.S. trading operations, such as HSBC North America, is required to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 

Competition The GLB Act eliminated many of the regulatory restrictions on providing financial services in the United States. The GLB Act allows for financial institutions and other providers of financial products to enter into combinations that permit a single organization to offer a complete line of financial products and services. In addition, the Volcker Rule places restrictions on bank-affiliated financial companies' trading activities and private equity and hedge fund investments, which may provide a competitive advantage to financial companies that do not have U.S. banking operations and may impact liquidity in the products and activities in which we engage. We face intense competition in all of the markets we serve, competing with banks and other financial institutions such as insurance companies, commercial finance providers, brokerage firms, investment companies and fintech companies. The financial services industry has experienced consolidation in recent years as financial institutions involved in a broad range of products and services have merged, been acquired or dispersed. This trend is expected to continue and has resulted in, among other things, greater concentrations of deposits and other resources. Competition is expected to continue to be intense given the multiple banks and other financial services companies which offer products and services in our markets, noting that we compete with different banks and financial services companies in different markets, given our strategy. 

Corporate Governance and Controls &#160; 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We maintain a website at www.us.hsbc.com on which we make available, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with or furnishing to the SEC, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports. We have included our website address only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Our website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of standing Board of Directors Committees, including the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Chairman's Committee. 

Integrity is the foundation of all our business endeavors and is the result of continued dedication and commitment to high ethical standards in our relationships with each other, with other organizations and with those individuals who are our customers. To that end, we have adopted a US Global Code of Conduct that expresses the principles upon which we operate our business. The US Global Code of Conduct is applicable to all employees, including our CEO, Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") and Chief Accounting Officer (collectively, the "Senior Financial Officers"). In addition to the US Global Code of Conduct, the Senior Financial Officers are subject to the additional policies set forth in the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which is intended to supplement the US Global Code of Conduct. 

Our US Global Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers can be found on our corporate website, www.about.us.hsbc.com, under "Investor Relations." Printed copies of this information can be requested at no charge. Requests should be made to HSBC USA Inc., 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10018, Attention: Corporate Secretary. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the US Global Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers by posting such information on our website, at the address and location specified above. 

Certifications In addition to certifications from our CEO and CFO pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (attached to this report on Form 10-K as Exhibits 31 and 32), we also file a written affirmation of an authorized officer with the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") certifying that such officer is not aware of any violation by HSBC USA of the applicable NYSE corporate governance listing standards in effect as of February 21, 2024. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

