 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

The following discussion provides a description of the most significant risk factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition and could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. Some of these risk factors are inherent in the financial services industry and others are more specific to our own businesses. There are also other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition and, therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of all potential risks that we may face. 

Risks related to the Economy, Financial Markets and Interest Rates 

Market and economic conditions will continue to affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the U.S. and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, including housing, high unemployment, the availability of credit and liquidity and reduced economic growth. The U.S. economy continued to grow in 2023 despite continued pressures from high inflation and rising interest rates, which are expected to lead to a slowdown of future economic growth. While interest rates are expected to remain elevated for some time, the FRB is expected to start decreasing short-term interest rates in 2024, the timing of which is dependent upon future economic conditions. In addition, bank failures earlier in the year have raised concerns about potential weakness in the banking sector, which has contributed to tighter credit conditions for households and businesses, further weighing on economic activity. Although economic conditions improved in 2023, economic uncertainty remains due to elevated interest rates, inflation levels and the expectation for slowing economic growth. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: 

&#8226; level of economic growth, including the pace and magnitude of such growth; 

&#8226; pressure on and changes in consumer and business confidence, spending and behavior; 

&#8226; fiscal policy; 

&#8226; volatility in energy prices, including oil and gas prices; 

&#8226; volatility in credit markets; 

&#8226; unemployment levels, wage income levels and declines in wealth; 

&#8226; trends in corporate earnings; 

&#8226; market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States; 

&#8226; inflation, monetary supply and monetary policy; 

&#8226; fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; 

&#8226; consequences of unexpected geopolitical events, natural disasters, climate change, outbreaks of contagious disease (such as coronavirus) or acts of war or terrorism; 

&#8226; trade policy; 

&#8226; fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; 

&#8226; movements in short-term and long-term interest rates or a change in the shape of the yield curve; 

&#8226; increases in interest rates, which may lead to increased delinquencies and loan impairment charges; 

&#8226; availability of liquidity; 

&#8226; availability of credit; and 

&#8226; new laws, regulations or regulatory and law enforcement initiatives. 

Although unemployment rates have remained low in 2023, if businesses were to become cautious to hire, lay-off employees or reduce hours for employees, losses could be significant in our consumer loans due to decreased consumer income, which will impact demand for products and services offered by many of our commercial loan clients. In addition, on-going domestic and global policy issues, such as interest rate levels, trade policy and economic sanctions, as well as continued implications from the Russia-Ukraine war and the recent turmoil in the Middle East will continue to impact the capital markets, trade and corporate earnings which also impacts our commercial loan performance. The sustainability of economic growth will be determined by numerous variables including consumer sentiment, interest rate levels, energy prices, credit market volatility, employment levels and housing market conditions which will impact corporate earnings and the capital markets. In the event economic conditions deteriorate and lead to a recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

While inflation has slowed significantly during 2023, it remains slightly above the FRB's target inflation rate. The consumer price index increased 3.4 percent year-over-year in December 2023. The risk to our business from inflation depends on the durability of the current inflationary pressures. The significant increase in inflation since 2021 has led to tighter-than expected monetary policy, which in turn, has increased the borrowing costs of our customers and reduced asset prices. If high inflation were to return, it could lead to further increases in the borrowing costs of our customers, making it more difficult for them to repay their loans or other obligations. The higher interest rates needed to tame persistent price pressures could also further reduce asset prices, weaken economic activity and possibly lead to a recession. 

A deterioration in business and economic conditions may erode consumer and investor confidence, increase volatility of financial markets, and could also adversely affect our fee-based businesses, including financial planning products and services. 

Increased credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, could require us to increase our provision for credit losses and allowance for credit losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The credit performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate further, more of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in our various loan and other portfolios carried at amortized cost as well as off-balance sheet credit exposures such as undrawn commitments to lend. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, lower U.S. Gross Domestic Product ("GDP") estimates, or other factors. For example, changes in borrower behavior or the regulatory environment also could influence recognition of credit losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses. 

While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2023, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses. In the event of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase our allowance in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. 

Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and, as a result, our financial results and condition. &#160; The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our borrowing costs and the return we earn on loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and derivative instruments. The FRB's policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that such borrowers may fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. 

Risks related to Regulation, Legislation and Litigation 

Federal, state, local and other similar international measures to regulate the financial industry may significantly impact our operations. &#160; We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, derivatives, capital, liquidity, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters, could materially impact our operations and performance. 

Attempts by local, state and federal regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced. Any one or more of these effects could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, state Attorneys General, or certain legislators, nor can we anticipate whether significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. In October 2023, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule to revise Regulation II (Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing). The rule would lower the maximum interchange fee that a debit card issuer could receive for a debit card transaction. If adopted as proposed, the rule could lower the interchange income received by HSBC Bank USA. 

The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may narrow the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of state Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act's potential expansion of the authority of state Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation, we could potentially be subject to additional state lawsuits and enforcement actions, thereby further increasing our legal and compliance costs. 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain of our affiliates and subsidiaries, including HSBC Bank USA, have registered as swap dealers and are subject to extensive oversight by the CFTC. Regulation of swap dealers by the CFTC imposes numerous 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

corporate governance, business conduct, capital, margin, reporting, clearing, execution and other regulatory requirements on HSBC Bank USA. Additionally, certain of our affiliates and subsidiaries, including HSBC Bank USA, have registered as security-based swap dealers and became subject to extensive oversight by the SEC, including the imposition of parallel corporate governance, business conduct, reporting and other regulatory requirements for security-based swaps. Imposition of these requirements may adversely affect our derivatives business and make us less competitive or make certain derivative products less profitable to undertake. 

The Volcker Rule limits the ability of banking entities such as HUSI to sponsor or invest in certain private equity or hedge funds or engage in certain types of proprietary trading. See "Regulation and Competition - The "Volcker Rule"." 

Our parent, HSBC North America, is subject to assessment by the FRB as part of the capital plan rule and CCAR program, as well as the supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. See "Regulation and Competition - Capital Planning and Stress Testing." 

The total impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent legislative and regulatory initiatives cannot be fully assessed without taking into consideration how non-U.S. policymakers and regulators may respond through the promulgation of new regulations and revisions to existing regulations and how the cumulative effects of both U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations will affect our businesses and operations. Additional legislative or regulatory actions in the United States, the U.K., the European Union ("EU") and in other countries could result in a significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in which we might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Accordingly, any such new or additional legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, certain large G-SIBs, including our ultimate parent HSBC, have in recent years become subject to capital surcharges and other enhanced prudential requirements. The Financial Stability Board ("FSB") has identified HSBC as one of three G-SIBs subject to a 2 percent surcharge. The FRB's rules implementing the G-SIB surcharge in the United States do not impose additional capital requirements on us because the U.S. G-SIB surcharge only applies to the eight largest U.S. banking organizations. 

Our ultimate parent HSBC is subject to the FSB's TLAC requirements for G-SIBs in the U.K. The TLAC standard also permits authorities in host jurisdictions to require "internal" TLAC to be issued by local entities to either parent entities or third parties. The purpose of the TLAC standard is to ensure that G-SIBs have sufficient loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity available to implement an orderly resolution with continuity of critical functions and minimal impact on financial stability, and to ensure cooperation between home and host authorities during resolution. The FRB's rules implementing the FSB's TLAC standard require the U.S. IHCs of non-U.S. G-SIBs, including HSBC North America, to maintain minimum amounts of TLAC and a related TLAC buffer. To support compliance with the TLAC rules, HSBC North America has issued long-term debt and may be required to issue additional long-term debt in future periods. See "Regulation and Competition - Long-Term Debt and TLAC." 

The delivery of our priorities is subject to execution risk. Delivering on the U.S. strategy and financial outcomes requires effective management and execution of our strategic priorities, revenue growth initiatives, product enhancements and remediation programs. 

Regulatory requests, legal matters and business initiatives all require a significant amount of time and resources to implement. The magnitude, complexity and, at times, concurrent demands of projects has resulted in heightened execution risk. Organizational change and external factors, including the challenging macroeconomic environment and the extent and pace of regulatory change also contribute to execution risk. These factors could adversely affect the successful delivery of our priorities. 

Uncertainty surrounding the potential legal, regulatory and policy changes in the U.S. may directly impact financial institutions and the global economy. Changes by the current or future administrations in federal policy and regulatory agencies have and could continue to lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry as well as changes to the tax code. The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential future changes to the current legal and regulatory framework and tax code affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain. It is unclear what additional laws, regulations and policies may change and whether future changes or uncertainty surrounding future changes will adversely affect our operating environment and therefore our results of operations and financial condition. 

Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. &#160; HSBC USA and its affiliates are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions, investigations and proceedings relating to our current and/or former operations and are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and formal and informal proceedings, as described in Note 30, "Litigation and Regulatory Matters" in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, remediation payments, injunctions and other relief. Legal actions and proceedings, including investigations, may increase in the near future, especially in the event of a recession. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial service firms is increasing, with a corresponding increase also in civil litigation arising from or relating to issues which are subject to regulatory investigations, sanctions or fines. There may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other regulators, including the CFPB, CFTC, SEC, state Attorneys General or state regulatory and law enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, substantial fines, penalties, remediation payments or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. In addition, HSBC's extensive global operations increase our compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subjects us to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, including AML laws and regulations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and economic sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. These risks can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of our affiliates' business activities. Criminal prosecutions of or civil enforcement against financial institutions for, among other alleged conduct, breaches of AML laws and regulations, the FCPA, or economic sanctions programs; antitrust violations; market manipulation; aiding and abetting tax evasion; and providing unlicensed cross-border banking services, have become more commonplace and may increase in frequency due to increased media attention and higher expectations from prosecutors and the public. Any such prosecution or investigation of, or legal proceeding or regulatory action brought against, HSBC or one or more of its subsidiaries could result in substantial fines, penalties and/or forfeitures and could have a material adverse effect on our results, business and prospects, including the potential loss of key licenses, requirement to exit certain businesses and withdrawal of funding from depositors and other stakeholders. 

We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. However, we may incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve for it and the cost of resolving a matter may be substantially higher than amounts reserved for it. It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of our legal, regulatory and other adversarial proceedings, particularly cases in which matters are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, those which seek unspecified damages or those which involve novel legal claims. The resolution of a pending legal proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 

Regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the future orderly resolution of large financial institutions could negatively impact our business structures, activities and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act requires HSBC as a foreign bank holding company and our ultimate parent to regularly prepare and submit a SIFI Plan. See "Regulation and Competition - Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements." 

If the FRB and the FDIC both determine that a SIFI Plan is not "credible" (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plans are feasible or would otherwise allow resolution of a financial institution's U.S. businesses in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption and without exposing taxpayers to loss), and the deficiencies are not remedied within the required time period, an institution, including HSBC, could be required to restructure or reorganize businesses, legal entities, or operational systems and intra-company transactions in ways that could negatively impact operations, or be subject to restrictions on growth. HSBC could also eventually be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. 

In 2019, the Bank of England ("BoE") and the Prudential Regulation Authority ("PRA") published final policies on the Resolvability Assessment Framework ("RAF"), which places the onus on firms to demonstrate their own resolvability and is designed to increase transparency and accountability for resolution planning. In order to be considered resolvable, HSBC must meet three outcomes: (i) have adequate resources in resolution; (ii) be able to continue business through resolution and restructuring; and (iii) be able to co-ordinate its resolution and communicate effectively with stakeholders. The RAF requires HSBC to prepare a report on HSBC Group's assessment of its resolvability, which is submitted to the PRA and BoE on a biennial basis. HSBC submitted its first report in October 2021 (followed by an addendum in February 2022) and published a public summary of the report in June 2022. Alongside this report, the BoE publicly disclosed its own assessment of HSBC's resolvability. The BoE identified certain shortcomings and areas of further enhancement which HSBC has since sought to address, progress in respect of which is set out in HSBC's second report which was submitted to the BoE in October 2023 (followed by an addendum in January 2024). HSBC will publish a public summary of the second report in June 2024, alongside which the BoE will make a further public assessment of HSBC's resolvability. Under the RAF, HSBC assesses its resolvability both from a UK-focused and a Group-wide perspective, and has implemented common resolvability capabilities across the Group's significant entities, including material entities in its U.S. group. HSBC continues to engage with the BoE, PRA, FRB, FDIC and its global regulators in other jurisdictions to ensure that it meets current and future recovery and resolution requirements and could face regulatory penalties if these requirements are not met. 

U.S. federal banking agencies may increase regulatory capital, TLAC, long-term debt or liquidity requirements which could require HSBC North America or HSBC Bank USA to issue additional qualifying securities or to take other 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

actions, such as liquidate assets. &#160; HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are required to meet consolidated regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, including new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, in accordance with current regulatory timelines. 

In the current regulatory environment, capital and liquidity requirements are frequently introduced and amended. Our regulators may increase regulatory minimum or buffer requirements, change how regulatory capital is calculated or increase liquidity requirements. A significant component of regulatory capital ratios is calculating our risk-weighted assets and our leverage exposure which may increase. The Basel Committee has also revised several key methodologies for measuring risk-weighted assets. These revisions include changes to the standardized approach for credit risk and operational risk, constraints on the use of internal models, a capital floor based on the revised standardized approaches, and a final standard on the minimum capital requirements for market risk. In July 2023, U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to update the U.S. Basel III rule in a manner broadly consistent with, but in some cases more stringent than, the Basel Committee revisions. See "Regulation and Competition - Tailoring Rules." In August 2023, U.S. banking regulators released a proposal that would require certain U.S. banks, BHCs and IHCs, including HSBC Bank USA and HTCD, to issue and maintain long-term debt to improve resolvability. See "Regulation and Competition - Long-Term Debt and TLAC." These and other future regulatory or legislative proposals could significantly impact the regulatory capital standards and requirements applicable to financial institutions such as HSBC North America, as well as our ability to meet these requirements. 

Increases in regulatory capital may also be required in response to other U.S. supervisory requirements. Participation by HSBC North America in the FRB's CCAR stress test process also requires that HSBC North America maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum regulatory ratios under multiple forward-looking stress scenarios across a nine-quarter planning horizon. The FRB has also adopted a final rule on the SCB which, among other things, replaced the fixed capital conservation buffer with a dynamic, institution-specific risk-based SCB for CCAR firms such as HSBC North America. See "Regulation and Competition - Capital Planning and Stress Testing." These stress testing requirements will influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. 

Preparation for the U.S. implementation of the Basel Committee's revisions to Basel III has influenced and is likely to continue to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and is expected to impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. We are unable at this time to determine the extent of changes we will need to make to our liquidity or capital position, if any, and what effect, if any, such changes will have on our results of operations or financial condition. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital and may require us to increase our capital or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results. Changes to and compliance with the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may impact our operations by requiring us to liquidate assets, increase borrowings, issue additional equity or other securities, cease or alter certain operations, sell company assets, or hold highly liquid assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 

Failure to meet regulatory requirements and expectations regarding sales practices and incentive compensation programs could negatively impact us and our customers. Our remuneration practices and performance management framework are designed to prevent and deter conflicts of interest and inappropriate sales incentives. Additionally, our other sales controls, including our framework for handling customer and employee complaints regarding sales practices, are designed to ensure customers receive products that they have authorized and meet their needs. Failure to execute our sales controls could result in the sale of, or upgrade to, products and services that fail to meet the needs of, or are unsuitable for, customers and clients, and can lead to financial harm to our customers, regulatory sanctions, financial loss and reputational damage. 

We are subject to tax-related risks. We are subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities in which we operate. These tax laws are inherently complex and we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to the HSBC North America entities, operations and businesses. Our interpretations and application of the tax laws could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material. Additionally, the amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of the matter. 

Risks related to our Business, Operations, Governance and Internal Control Systems 

Our reputation may have a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees, and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Reputational risk relates to stakeholders' perceptions, whether fact-based or otherwise. Stakeholders' expectations change constantly and so reputational risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and individuals. In addition, our businesses face increasing scrutiny with respect to Environmental, Social, Governance ("ESG") related matters. Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputational risk. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Negative news about us, HSBC, our affiliates or the financial services industry generally could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. 

The proliferation of social media websites as well as the personal use of social media by our employees and others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, facilitates communication with large audiences in short time frames. These social media websites also may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences. 

The failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address any of these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our risk management controls framework may not be successful. The management of risk is an integral part of all our activities and is fundamental to the delivery of our strategic priorities. While we are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, our risk management framework has been designed to provide robust controls and ongoing monitoring of our principal risks. To manage risk, we employ a risk management framework at all levels and across all risk types. The framework fosters the continuous monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of risks and their interactions. It also strives to ensure that we have a robust and consistent approach to risk management across all of our activities. While our risk management framework employs a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, such techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every unfavorable event or the specifics and timing of every outcome. Failure to manage risks appropriately could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our risk management controls framework may face particularly significant challenges internally and externally in the following three broad areas: 

(a) Risks related to our businesses and operations: The delivery of our strategic priorities is subject to execution risk and we may not achieve all the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. Our operations are subject to the threat of fraudulent activity and disruption from the external environment. We are highly dependent on our information technology systems. We could incur losses or be required to hold additional capital as a result of model limitations or failure. Issues with the quality of data or effectiveness of our data aggregation and validation procedures could result in ineffective risk management practices or inaccurate risk reporting. 

(b) Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks: Unfavorable economic and market conditions, such as reduced economic growth and rising interest rates, as well as certain geopolitical events, such as conflicts or pandemics resulting in supply chain disruptions, may adversely affect our results. See "Market and economic conditions will continue to affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition." 

(c) Regulatory and legal risks to our businesses: We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict. Unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and brand. Unfavorable legislative or regulatory developments, or changes in the policy of regulators or governments, could also have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects. 

Failure to effectively implement our business strategies may adversely affect our financial performance. Our strategies for business growth involve focusing our sales efforts on international connectivity strategies with high quality international corporate clients and globally-connected affluent and high net worth wealth and personal clients, as well as augmenting our returns through increased cross-selling and cost optimization. We may fail to attract international clients or cross-sell our services to them. Competition within the industry can limit our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. Our cross-sell strategy is also dependent on earning more business from our customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio or the average number of products sold to existing customers, which may become more challenging. Our international corporate strategies are dependent on a stable geopolitical environment. Increased tensions or instability between trading nations and the adoption of protectionist trade policies could adversely affect our ability to obtain new business from existing clients. 

Substantial work is required to execute on our growth strategies. Alongside the strategic actions, we continue to implement a number of externally driven regulatory remediation programs. The magnitude and complexity of the projects required to meet these demands has resulted in heightened execution risk. Additionally, we may be unable to fully realize the cost optimization efforts and the other anticipated benefits from those efforts and we may not be able to realize them in the currently anticipated timeframes. 

The cumulative impact of the collective change initiatives underway is significant and has direct implications on resourcing and our people. Failure to successfully implement our business strategies may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

We may be unable to meet our funding requirements due to deposit attrition or access to the capital markets. &#160; HSBC USA is a holding company without operations of its own and therefore relies on dividends and other distributions for a portion of its funding and liquidity. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends and distributions that our subsidiaries may pay. Our primary source of funding is deposits, augmented by issuance of commercial paper, securities sold under repurchase agreements and term debt. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. 

We also access wholesale markets in order to provide funding for entities that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a market presence. We issued a total of $4,557 million of long-term debt at various points in 2023, including $1,250 million of senior notes issued in March. An inability to obtain financing in the unsecured long-term or short-term debt capital markets because of market factors or factors in our businesses could have a substantial adverse effect on our liquidity. Unfavorable macroeconomic developments, market disruptions or regulatory developments may increase our funding costs or challenge our ability to raise funds to support our businesses, materially adversely affecting our businesses, prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations. 

Future conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include: 

&#8226; an inability to maintain stable deposit balances because customers may invest in other financial instruments as an alternative; 

&#8226; diminished access to capital markets because of market factors or factors in our businesses; 

&#8226; an increased interest rate environment for our commercial paper, deposits or term debt; 

&#8226; unforeseen cash or capital requirements; 

&#8226; an inability to sell assets; and 

&#8226; an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC Group subsidiaries and through deposits. 

These conditions could be caused by a number of factors, including internal and external factors, such as, among others: 

&#8226; financial and credit market disruption; 

&#8226; volatility or lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets; 

&#8226; lack of market or customer confidence in HSBC or negative news about HSBC or the financial services industry generally; and 

&#8226; other conditions and factors over which we have little or no control including economic conditions in the United States and abroad and concerns over potential government defaults and related policy initiatives. 

Our approach is to meet our capital needs locally through activities which reduce risk. To the extent, however, that local alternatives are insufficient, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC, we would seek their support. HSBC has provided us with capital support in the past. Notwithstanding, if we are unable to maintain stable deposit balances and/or raise funds in the capital markets, our liquidity position could be adversely affected and we might be unable to meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as they mature, or to fund new loans, investments and businesses. We may need to liquidate unencumbered assets to meet our liabilities. In a time of reduced liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may need to sell assets at depressed prices, which in either case could materially adversely affect our businesses, prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. 

We face significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial services industry. We compete with other financial institutions in a highly competitive industry that continues to undergo significant change as a result of financial regulatory reform as well as increased public scrutiny and the challenging economic environment. We target globally-connected clients who need sophisticated global solutions and we generally compete on the basis of the quality of our customer service, the wide variety of products and services that we can offer our customers and the ability of those products and services to satisfy our customers' needs, the extensive distribution channels available for our customers, our innovation, and our reputation. Continued or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may negatively affect our market share and results of operations and/or cause us to increase our capital investment in our businesses in order to remain competitive. Additionally, our products and services may not be accepted by our targeted clients. 

Given the current economic, regulatory, and political environment for large financial institutions such as us, and possible public backlash to bank fees and the emergence of new products and fintech companies, there is increased competitive pressure to provide products and services at current or lower prices. Consequently, our ability to reposition or reprice our products and services from time to time may be limited and could be influenced significantly by the actions of our competitors who may or may not charge similar fees for their products and services. Any changes in the types of products and services that we offer our customers and/or the pricing for those products and services could result in a loss of customers and market share and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, new entrants to the market or new technologies, including generative artificial intelligence and distributed ledger technology, could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Continued technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions as well as other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial solutions, including electronic payment solutions. We may not respond effectively to these competitive threats from existing and new competitors and may be forced to increase our investment in our businesses to modify, adapt or develop products, services, and technology infrastructure to respond to our customers' needs. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our borrowing costs and liquidity. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. We depend on access to the securities market for a portion of our funding. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, which consider a number of factors including their assessment of our relative financial strength and results of operations, including our strategy and our management's capability, as well as factors affecting the financial services industry generally, including legal and regulatory frameworks affecting our business activities and the rights of our creditors. There can be no assurance that downgrades will not occur. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could potentially increase our borrowing costs, impact our ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit our access to capital markets, require us to make cash payments or post collateral and permit termination by counterparties of certain significant contracts, including as a result of credit-related contingent features in certain of our derivative contracts, which could negatively affect our liquidity. In October 2023, Moody's downgraded the long-term debt ratings of HSBC USA by one notch, including the senior debt rating which was downgraded to A2 from A1. The outlook for the senior debt ratings of HSBC USA is stable. While this rating action did not have a material financial impact on our borrowing costs or liquidity, any future actions could have such an impact. 

Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management practices and litigation matters, all of which may lead to adverse ratings actions. Although we closely monitor and strive to manage factors influencing our credit ratings, there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not change in the future. At December 31, 2023, none of the ratings on the debt of HSBC USA or HSBC Bank USA from any of the rating agencies were under review for potential downgrade. 

If any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and customers. 

Concentrations of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses . We have exposure to increased levels of risk when customers are engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. While we regularly monitor various segments of our portfolio exposures to assess potential concentration risks, our efforts to diversify or hedge our credit portfolio against concentration risks may not be successful. Disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of any of the industries, products, financial markets or economies we operate in may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of our positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. 

Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge, which could have a material adverse effect on us. A major focus of U.S. government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating financial crime activity, including money laundering, bribery and corruption and violations of economic sanctions. We are required to comply with applicable AML, anti-bribery/corruption and sanctions laws and regulations, and we have various policies and procedures, including 'Know Your Customer' procedures and other internal controls, that are reasonably designed to achieve such compliance. These policies and procedures are aimed at preventing the use of our products and services for the purpose of committing or concealing financial crime. In relevant situations, and where permitted by regulation, we may rely upon certain counterparties, including our affiliates, to maintain and properly apply their own appropriate policies and procedures relating to financial crime compliance (including AML, anti-bribery/corruption and economic sanctions). 

A program consisting of policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with financial crime laws may not always prevent third parties from using us (and our relevant counterparties) as a conduit for money laundering, including illegal cash operations without our knowledge (and that of our relevant counterparties), or committing acts of bribery or violations of economic sanctions through us. In addition, the accessibility and increasing sophistication of generative artificial intelligence brings financial crime risks. While there is potential for the technology to support financial crime detection, there is also a risk that criminals use generative artificial intelligence to perpetrate fraud, particularly scams. Developments in payments technologies, including those based on distributed ledger technology, could impact the effectiveness of our financial crime controls. We or our affiliates becoming a party to violations of financial crime laws or regulations, or accusations of being associated with such activity, could damage our reputation and/or lead to fines, penalties and/or other legal enforcement. Any one of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

Operational risks are inherent in our businesses and may adversely impact our businesses and reputation. We are exposed to many types of operational risks that are inherent in banking operations, including fraudulent and other criminal 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

activities (both internal and external), breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems failure. For example, fraudsters may target any of our products, services or delivery channels, including lending, internet banking, payments, bank accounts and cards. Further, there is a risk that our operating system controls, business continuity or data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Adoption of emerging technologies, such as generative artificial intelligence and distributed ledger technology, may also expose us to operational risks, including unanticipated costs, scarcity of specialist expertise, increase in legacy technology burden, reduced resilience, or insufficient controls. These risks apply equally when we rely on third-party service providers and partners to provide services to us and our customers. These operational risks may result in financial loss to us (including unanticipated expenses to correct any defect, and litigation expenses), an adverse customer experience, reputational damage and potential regulatory action, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. 

Any potential losses sustained as a result of an operational risk may not be sufficiently covered by our insurance, and our coverage is subject to deductibles and exclusions. 

Our operations are subject to risk of technology failure. In today's complex and interconnected technology environment, all financial institutions, including us, are at risk of technology failures. Such failures could result from inadequate design or implementation of our systems or controls, inadequate maintenance or upgrades of our systems, software and networks, or from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: 

&#8226; cyberattacks (see "Our operations are subject to risk of cyberattacks.", below); 

&#8226; electrical, telecommunications, or other essential utility outages; 

&#8226; natural disasters, such as severe weather conditions and earthquakes; 

&#8226; events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts or acts of war; and 

&#8226; absence of personnel necessary to operate or maintain our systems, due to global pandemics or other unforeseen emergencies. 

Consequences of a technology failure may include operational disruptions, data breaches (including loss of customer data), litigation expenses and liability for damages, loss of business, reputational damage, regulatory fines and increased regulatory scrutiny, and unanticipated costs to remediate the failure. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, business prospects, and reputation. 

Our operations are subject to risk of cyberattacks. The threat of cyberattacks poses significant risk to financial institutions, including us. Cyberattacks continue to evolve and vulnerabilities in technology systems continue to be exploited by cyber criminals at an increasing rate. Malicious actors, including state-sponsored attackers, hackers for hire, organized syndicates, hacktivist groups, and those who might act from within our organization (known as insider threat) have developed a variety of cyberattacks. These attacks include malware (such as ransomware), exploitation of both known and unpublished (zero-day) vulnerabilities in software, various types of phishing, distributed denial of service, and other sophisticated methods of compromising critical or sensitive systems and information. An increase in the sophistication of cyberattacks is expected as malicious actors adopt emerging technology, like artificial intelligence, to enhance their methods. Continued geopolitical conflicts also escalate the overall risk of cyberattacks. 

Like other financial institutions, we experience numerous attempts to compromise our cybersecurity, and we expect to continue to be the target of attacks. As of the date of this disclosure, we have not been materially affected by cyberattacks, however, we recognize that we could be materially affected by such risks in the future. We remain an attractive target for cyberattacks due to, among other things, HSBC Group's geographical span and prominent role in the financial services industry, our offering of internet banking and mobile banking platforms, our storage of significant amounts of customer and other confidential information, the continued increase of services delivered via the internet, increasing reliance on Internet-based products, applications and data storage and an increased use of hybrid working models by our and HSBC Group's employees, contractors, third-party service providers and their sub-contractors. Our exposure to cyberattacks could increase in the event we fail to adhere to our cybersecurity policies, procedures or controls, employee wrongdoing, or human, governance or technological error that compromises our ability to effectively defend against cyberattacks. Failure to adequately upgrade or maintain our technology environment could also result in greater susceptibility to cyberattacks or an unexpected change in the nature or intensity of cyberattacks could require additional capital expenses for human resources and technology, even if such attacks remain unsuccessful. While we continue to make investments in technology and adopt measures designed to prepare for, detect, respond to and recover from cyberattacks, such actions cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in mitigating cyberattacks. 

A successful cyberattack could have a material adverse effect on our customers, business, financial condition, operations, business prospects and reputation and could impact our ability to attract and keep customers. Some examples of such adverse effects include: 

&#8226; compromise of our confidential information or other third-party confidential information; 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; compromise of our customers' data, which could potentially impact our customers' credit ratings, liquidity, ability to repay loan balances, or put our customers at risk for identity theft, account takeover, and credit abuse; 

&#8226; disruption of technology systems or data necessary for our, our customers' or third parties' operations, including, for example, compromising the security of and confidence in our payment channels or other critical systems; 

&#8226; disruption of our ability to operate effectively, including the ability to operate controls, file timely reports, and access capital; 

&#8226; unanticipated costs, including litigation expenses, liability for damages, remediation of affected systems, and incentives to customers and business partners to maintain and rebuild business relationships after the attack; and 

&#8226; regulatory fines and increased regulatory scrutiny. 

Similarly, successful cyberattacks against our third-party service providers or partners could compromise the integrity, availability or confidentiality of our technology systems or data, causing a material adverse impact on us (see "Our operations are subject to third-party risk." below). 

Even in the absence of successful cyberattacks, changes in the cyber threat landscape may require unanticipated capital expenses to adjust our cybersecurity program in order to respond to these threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure security of data. 

While we have purchased cybersecurity insurance, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses, and coverage is subject to deductibles and exclusions. Moreover, as cyberattacks continue to increase in frequency and magnitude, we may be unable to obtain cybersecurity insurance in amounts or on terms that are adequate for our operations. 

Our operations are subject to risk relating to data, including consumer privacy rights. Our operations depend on our ability to collect, maintain, and process a significant amount of data in a complex data environment. Data availability, quality and integrity are critical for our decision making, enterprise risk management and operational processes, as well as for complying with regulations. As we become more data-driven and our business processes rely more on digital channels, the volume of data that we and our customers interact with continues to increase. Our data management policies, processes, and controls, including with respect to data architecture, data availability, data quality, data integrity, and data retention or deletion are designed to ensure that problems with data are identified, reported and addressed. 

Effective data governance relies on a clear understanding of our environment. If our data governance, including data integrity, availability, quality and architecture policies, procedures, and controls, are not sufficiently robust, we could be subject to the risk of errors, including in transactions data, financial or accounting data, data stored in recordkeeping systems, or data used in reporting to senior management or regulators. For example, failure to comply with regulatory reporting requirements or with principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting, as set out by the Basel Committee, may result in supervisory measures. Even where such errors are averted or mitigated, we may incur unanticipated cost and operational disruptions in order to implement necessary adjustments and reconciliations. Inadequate policies, processes and controls may also affect our ability to use data to service customers more effectively or improve our product offering. 

As a financial institution, we necessarily gather, maintain and use a significant amount of customers' personal data. Continued changes in privacy laws and regulations, including changes in their scope and interpretation, increased enforcement activity, and inconsistencies in requirements in different jurisdictions have increased and could further increase compliance complexity and related costs and risks with respect to management of personal data, including significant financial penalties for compliance failures. Developments in privacy laws and regulations could limit our ability to: use customer data, develop new products or pursue business opportunities, and respond to technological changes. Such developments could also pose challenges to our operations, including with respect to sharing data with our affiliates. They also could heighten the reputational impact of perceived misuses of customer data, by us, our vendors, or those who gain unauthorized access to our customer data. Other regulatory developments could require us to increase consumer access to data (including through authorized third parties). 

We are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to cybersecurity (including encryption), surveillance, and data on-shoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures, and controls. Such changes may have a material adverse effect on our operations, including by impairing our ability to effectively process data (including transactions), to effectively protect our customers' privacy, or to implement and maintain effective information security measures. 

Whether actual or perceived, any of the failures relating to data could have a material adverse effect on our customers, business, financial condition, operations, business prospects, and reputation, including significant financial losses from regulatory fines, litigation, and any associated remediation activities. 

Our operations are subject to third-party risk. We rely on third-party service providers and partners, who, in turn, rely on their own networks of vendors, to deliver goods and services to us, our affiliates, and our customers. Our third-party service providers and partners are subject to the same or similar risks as we are, including technology failures, security breaches, 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

capacity constraints, and inadequate data management or privacy protections, the risk of which we may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate. Any of these risks could impede their ability to provide products or services to us and materially disrupt our business (including our ability to process transactions and communicate with customers and counterparties), damage our reputation, and expose us to financial and regulatory consequences. We may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate operational risks relating to fourth parties, i.e., vendors used by our third-party service providers. 

Additionally, failures experienced by shared financial market systems and providers, such as central banks, clearinghouses, custodians, exchanges and other shared technology infrastructure providers could have a material adverse effect on market participants, including us, and could disrupt the functioning of the overall financial system. 

ESG risks such as climate change and human rights issues may have a material adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. ESG related matters such as climate change and human rights issues, among others, presents both immediate and long-term risks to us, with the risks expected to increase over time. Climate change could have both financial and non-financial impacts to us either directly or indirectly through our customers. Transition risk can arise from the move to a low-carbon economy, such as through policy, regulatory and technological changes. Physical risk can arise through increasing severity and/or frequency of severe weather or other climactic events, such as acute weather events and chronic shifts in the climate. 

Physical risks could damage or destroy our or our customers' properties and other assets and disrupt our or their operations. For example, climate change may lead to more extreme weather events occurring more often which may result in physical damage and additional volatility within our trading and other businesses, as well as potential counterparty exposures and other financial risks. Transition risks, including those from changes in regulations or market preferences, which could in turn affect customer business and operations, could have negative impacts on asset values, results of operations or the reputation of HUSI and its customers. For example, our corporate credit portfolios include carbon-intensive industries like oil and gas and power that are exposed to climate risks, such as those risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy, as well as low-carbon industries that may be subject to risks associated with new technologies. 

While financial markets and regulatory institutions vary by jurisdiction in terms of authority or responsibility, U.S. and non-U.S. banking and securities regulators and others, including certain state and other federal regulators, have recently implemented or are in consultation to draft regulatory requirements which recognize the need to address climate change's adverse impacts on financial market stability. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate risk management and practices may result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit and reputational risks and costs. In October 2023, the federal banking agencies issued principles for climate-related financial risk management for large financial institutions. This guidance provides a high-level framework for the safe and sound management of exposures to climate-related financial risks and applies to financial institutions with over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including the U.S. operations of foreign banking organizations and IHCs. 

We may be exposed to climate related litigation risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not adequately managing climate risks or indirectly if our clients and customers are themselves the subject of litigation, potentially resulting in the revaluation of client assets. 

Failure to manage human rights risks may result in negative impacts on people and communities, which in turn may have reputational, legal, regulatory and financial consequences for HUSI. 

If any ESG related risks materialize, it could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, reputation, prospects and strategy. 

We may suffer losses due to employee negligence, fraud or misconduct. Non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct, negligence and fraud could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. We are dependent on our employees and could be materially adversely affected if an employee or employees, acting alone or in concert with third parties, causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or purposefully. A number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of 'rogue traders' or other employees. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Misconduct risks could be increased if prevent and detect measures are less effective because of remote and home working. Employee misconduct could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 

We may suffer losses due to negligence, fraud or misconduct by third parties. We depend on third-party suppliers, outsourcing vendors and our affiliates for a variety of services. Third parties with which we do business with could be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties' own systems or employees. The OCC and FRB require financial institutions to maintain third-party and service provider risk management programs, which include due diligence requirements for third parties and service providers as well as for our affiliates who may perform services for us. In June 2023, the federal banking agencies issued updated guidance on managing risks associated with third-party 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

relationships. The guidance sets forth considerations and a framework with respect to the management of risks arising from third-party relationships and replaces the federal banking agencies' existing guidance on the topic. The guidance broadly applies to business arrangements between a banking organization and a third party. If our third-party risk and service provider management and due diligence program is not sufficiently robust, this could lead to regulatory intervention. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, and may result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage or regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. 

Failure to successfully change our operational practices may have a material impact on our businesses. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: 

&#8226; our determining to sell residential mortgage loans and other loans; 

&#8226; changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; 

&#8226; our investment choices in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel, including consolidating middle and back office activities to a single wholesale and a single retail offering platform; 

&#8226; changes to our AML and sanctions policies and the related operations practices; 

&#8226; our outsourcing of various operations, including outsourcing elements of our fixed-income business to affiliates based in Europe; or 

&#8226; the decision to insource certain products, services or operations. 

Further, in order to react quickly to or meet newly-implemented regulatory requirements, and to effectively implement our strategy, we may need to change or enhance systems within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk. See "Failure to effectively implement our business strategies may adversely affect our financial performance" and "The delivery of our priorities is subject to execution risk." Failure to implement appropriate changes to our operational practices successfully and efficiently may diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses and could result in reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. 

We have exposure to counterparty risk and the financial condition of our clients and counterparties could adversely affect us. We are exposed to counterparties that are involved in virtually all major industries, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in financial services, including brokers and dealers, central clearing counterparties, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. Significant deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty may lead to concerns about the credit quality of others in the same industry, exacerbating our credit risk exposure, and increasing losses (including mark-to-market losses) in our market-making and clearing businesses. Our ability to engage in routine transactions to fund our operations and manage our risks could be materially adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial institutions are necessarily interdependent because of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a consequence, a default by, or decline in market confidence in, individual institutions, or anxiety about the financial services industry generally, can lead to further individual and/or systemic difficulties, defaults and losses. 

Mandatory central clearing of over the counter derivatives, including under the Dodd-Frank Act, brings with it risk. As a clearing member, we have financial exposure for losses incurred at a Central Counterparty ("CCP") by the default of other clearing members. Hence increased moves toward central clearing brings with it a further element of interconnectedness between clearing members and clients that we believe may increase rather than reduce our exposure to systemic risk. At the same time, our ability to manage such risk ourselves will be reduced because risk controls are largely managed by the CCPs themselves and it is unclear at present how, at a time of stress, regulators and resolution authorities would intervene. 

In situations in which we strive to mitigate counterparty risk by taking collateral, our credit risk may remain high if the collateral we hold cannot be realized or must be liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure to the respective counterparty. There is a risk that collateral cannot be realized, including situations where this arises by change of law that may influence our ability to foreclose on collateral or otherwise enforce contractual rights. Significant or prolonged periods of market stress or illiquidity could further decrease our ability to realize the fair value of collateral held by us or make it more likely that we would liquidate collateral at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure to the respective counterparty or client. Further, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. 

When such a counterparty or client becomes bankrupt or insolvent, we may become involved in significant disputes or litigation with the counterparty's or client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or involved in regulatory investigations, each of which could increase our operational and litigation costs. 

We also have credit exposure arising from risk defeasance products such as credit default swaps ("CDSs"), and other credit derivatives, each of which is carried at fair value. The risk of default by counterparties to CDSs and other credit derivatives used as mitigants affects the fair value of these instruments depending on the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

underlying instrument against which protection has been purchased. Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Failure to appropriately address potential conflicts of interest can result in reputational harm, as well as litigation and enforcement actions. Our ability to appropriately address potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as our business activities encompass more transactions with and among our diversified client and customer base. 

A failure or perceived failure to adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest, treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard of care, and provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards could result in customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, litigation and enforcement actions, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. 

We could incur losses or be required to hold additional capital as a result of model limitations or failure. We use models for a range of purposes in managing our businesses, including regulatory capital calculations, stress testing, credit approvals, financial crime and fraud risk management and financial reporting. We could face adverse consequences as a result of decisions, which may lead to actions by management, based on models that are poorly developed, implemented or used, or as a result of the modeled outcome being misunderstood or the use of such information for purposes for which it was not designed or the inherent limitations arising from the uncertainty inherent in predicting or estimating future outcomes. We hold capital for known risks and limitations of our models as appropriate. If additional weakness in a model is discovered or if a model is shown to have failed, we may be required to hold more capital. Risks from use of models could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and/or results of operations, minimum capital requirements and reputation. 

Regulatory scrutiny and supervisory concerns over the use by banks of models is considerable, particularly the internal models and assumptions used by banks in the application of the stress testing exercise and in the calculation of regulatory capital. 

Key employees may be difficult to attract or retain. HUSI's continued performance, competitive position, and effectiveness to execute its overall strategy depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain an engaged workforce. Providing support to our employees is a significant priority and is critical to managing our workforce and achieving our strategic objectives. Through the U.S. Wellbeing agenda, we provided resources, programs and webinars to employees with the specific purpose to support the mental and physical health of our colleagues. 

The regulatory environment and competitive market in which HUSI operates can make it difficult to hire or retain highly qualified employees. HUSI often competes in the market for talent with industries that are not subject to regulatory restrictions on incentive compensation structure. Market positioning in terms of fixed pay and total compensation is an important factor in attracting and retaining people, as well as advancing the diversity agenda. The accelerated pace of change in employment in our industry and any disruptions to our workplace and workforce require a focused effort on future skill development. To enable growth, there is a need to facilitate talent mobility, broaden career growth, allow for formal development, and establish a high impact learning culture. 

Risks relating to our Financial Statements 

Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine the allowance for credit losses, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities. In particular, allowance for credit loss estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are subject to management's judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in its current loss estimate, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities are not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result. 

We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to earnings if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on objective and verifiable management forecasts, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, future corporate tax rates and the application of inherently complex tax laws. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 18, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Our financial statements depend on our internal controls over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any "material weaknesses" in our internal control over financial reporting. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies, including significant deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year. 

Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB, the IASB, the SEC and our bank regulators, including the OCC and the FRB, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. For further discussion, see Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

