 Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

For a discussion of certain risk factors affecting us, see the section titled &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Part I, Item 1. Business, on pages 10-23 of our 2019 Form 10-K; Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, on pages 23-33 of our 2019 Form 10-K; the sections titled &#8220;Supervision and regulation&#8221; and &#8220;Strategic developments&#8221; in this Form 10-Q; and our disclosure regarding forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q. The additional risk factors set forth below represent new risk factors that have become applicable since the filing of our 2019 Form 10-K. 

I. 

Credit risk 

The COVID-19 global pandemic could result in a deterioration of asset quality and an increase in credit losses. 

The global pandemic has shut down large portions of the U.S. economy and has negatively impacted many of our customers. As a result, many businesses have or will have lower revenues and many consumers will have lower income. This negative impact on customers&#8217; cash flow could result in an inability to repay loans and in a negative impact on our asset quality. Although there has not been a material rating degradation to date, many customers have requested and have been granted hardship relief in the form of payment deferrals and modifications as well as loans through the CARES Act. If customers are unable to repay their loans in a timely manner following hardship relief, it could result in a deterioration of asset quality, an increase in delinquency, reversal of accrued interest income, and an increase in credit losses. We increased our loan loss reserve in the first quarter of 2020, and the impact of the pandemic could result in a further increase to our loan loss reserve. 

Oil prices have declined significantly, which could lead to increased credit losses in our oil and gas loan portfolio. 

The oil market has faced a drop-off in demand due to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic on much of the global economy. The decline in demand coupled with insufficient storage capacity for oil has caused oil prices to decline significantly. As a result, oil companies may begin to halt production. As the oil and gas sector continues to suffer from low oil prices, companies in that sector will have lower revenues and cash flows. Oil companies may be forced to seek bankruptcy protection as well. Our oil and gas loan portfolio represented only 2.6% of our total loans at March 31, 2020, and our exposure is primarily reserve-based, with approximately half tied to natural gas which has shown better price performance. However, even with our limited exposure, the negative impact of low oil prices could result in increased credit losses to us. 

II. 

Operational risk 

The COVID-19 global pandemic has resulted in increased operational risks. 

&#160; 

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in heightened operational risks. Much of our workforce has been working remotely, and increased levels of remote access create additional cybersecurity risk and opportunities for cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilities. Cybercriminals may increase their attempts to compromise business emails, including an increase in phishing attempts, and fraudulent vendors or other parties may view the pandemic as an opportunity to prey upon consumers and businesses during this time. This could result in increased fraud losses to us or our clients. The increase in online and remote banking activities may also increase the risk of fraud in certain instances. In addition, state and local orders and regulations regarding the conduct of in-person business operations may impact our ability to operate at normal levels and to restore operations to their pre-pandemic level for an unknown period of time. Separately, our third-party service providers have also been impacted by the pandemic and we have experienced some disruption to certain services performed by vendors. To date, these disruptions have not been material and we have developed solutions to work around these disruptions, but we may experience additional disruption in the future, which could adversely impact our business. 

III. 

Liquidity Risk 

The COVID-19 global pandemic may continue to cause uncertainty in markets and may result in an increase in our cost of funds. 

The COVID-19 global pandemic has caused a great amount of uncertainty in markets, causing credit markets to seize and forcing companies, including our clients, to seek liquidity in the face of uncertain future cash flows. To the extent the clients&#8217; funds are not used as working capital and not placed on deposit with KeyBank, we could be faced with funding significant draws of committed lending facilities, along with requests for new facilities from our clients. As a result of the pandemic, we have seen the utilization rate on committed commercial lines of credit increase. Additionally, clients continue to look to Key for additional funding vehicles until the capital markets become more stable and available. As clients use deposit balances to fund their businesses, this may put funding pressure on 

Key, which may cause us to leverage our secured funding sources or pay higher rates than normal for additional funding. 

IV. 

Market risk 

The impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic has resulted in economic disruption related to interest rate risk and market risk. 

On March 15, 2020, the Federal Reserve lowered the Fed Funds Target Rate range to 0 to 25 basis points, down from 175 basis points at December 31, 2019. Other short-term rates, such as LIBOR, have declined as well due to liquidity stress in money markets. Because Key is positioned as modestly asset sensitive, declining interest rates will negatively impact our net interest income, assuming all loan and deposit volumes are held constant. 

Additionally, as it pertains to our trading activities (described in more detail in the &#8220;Market risk management&#8221; section within Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis), in a decreasing interest rate environment, our derivative exposure generally increases due to the nature of our derivatives business model. The increase in derivatives exposure, combined with the credit spread widening that drives the market implied probability of default, increases our credit reserves. This increase in credit reserves had a negative impact on our earnings in the first quarter of 2020. The adverse impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic also caused market disruption in certain asset classes within our fixed income business. The temporary decrease in market liquidity along with the decrease in interest rates and spread widening had a negative impact on our earnings in the first quarter of 2020. 

