 ITEM 1A. 

RISK FACTORS

Except as provided below, there have been no material changes in the Company&#8217;s risk factors from those disclosed in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

&#160;

The novel Coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic could adversely affect the Company and its customers, associates and third-party service providers, and the adverse impacts on the Company&#8217;s business, financial position, operations and prospects could be significant.

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public health crisis that has resulted in unprecedented uncertainty, volatility and disruption in financial markets and in governmental, commercial and consumer activity in the United States and globally. Governmental responses to the pandemic have included orders closing businesses not deemed essential and directing individuals to restrict their movements, observe social distancing and shelter in place. These actions, together with responses to the pandemic by businesses and individuals, have resulted in rapid decreases in commercial and consumer activity, temporary closures of many businesses that have led to loss of revenues and a rapid increase in unemployment, material decreases in oil and gas prices and in business valuations, disrupted global supply chains, market downturns and volatility, changes in consumer behavior related to pandemic fears, related emergency response legislation and an expectation that Federal Reserve policy will maintain a low interest rate environment for the foreseeable future. These changes have a significant adverse effect on the markets in which the Company conducts its business and on the demand for its products and services. 

Business and consumer customers of the Company are experiencing varying degrees of financial distress, which is expected to increase over coming months and could adversely affect their ability to timely pay interest and principal on their loans and the value of the collateral securing their obligations. 

To protect the health of the Company&#8217;s customers and associates, and to comply with applicable government directives, the Company has modified its business practices, including restricting associate travel, expanding remote access availability and physical distancing at Company locations, limiting customer access to banking center lobbies and encouraging use of motor banks and implementing business continuity plans and protocols to the extent necessary. The Company may take such additional actions that it determines are in the best interest of its associates, customers and communities or as may be required by government order. These actions undertaken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and similar actions by the Company&#8217;s vendors and business partners, have not materially impaired the Company&#8217;s ability to support its associates, conduct its business and serve its customers, but there is no assurance that these actions will be sufficient to successfully mitigate the risks presented by COVID-19 or that the Company&#8217;s ability to operate will not be materially affected in the future. For example, the Company&#8217;s business operations may be disrupted if key personnel or significant portions of its associates are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Similarly, the Company&#8217;s ability to serve its customers could be negatively affected if any of the Company&#8217;s vendors or business partners become unable to continue to provide their products and services on which the Company relies to maintain its day-to-day operations.

COVID-19 does not yet appear to be contained and could affect significantly more households and businesses. Given the ongoing and dynamic nature of the circumstances, it is not possible to accurately predict the extent, severity or duration of these conditions or when normal economic and operating conditions will resume. For this reason, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic affects the Company&#8217;s business, operations and financial condition, as well as its regulatory capital and liquidity ratios and credit ratings, is highly uncertain and unpredictable and depends on, among other things, new information that may emerge concerning the scope, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other parties in response to the pandemic. If the pandemic is prolonged, the adverse impact on the markets in which the Company operates and on its business, operations and financial condition could deepen.

To the extent COVID-19 adversely affects the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, it also may have the effect of exacerbating many of the other risks described under &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

&#160;

