Here is the cleaned text file with only the content related to Morgan Stanley, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
morgan_stanley_2023_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology & Business: Morgan Stanley's Gorman Is Named to Disney's Board................................................... 2
          Fed Probes Morgan Stanley Over Its Laundering Controls --- At issue is how bank's wealth- management unit
          vets foreigners.......................................................................................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley Is Backing Plant-Based Food Maker Huel ..................................................................................... 4
          Morgan Stanley's Gorman Chose a Good Time to Exit --- The CEO built the right bank for the years of low rates,
          but that era could end under his successor.............................................................................................................. 5
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley Determines Its 'Succession' ........................................................................................................... 7
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology&Business:MorganStanley'sGormanIsNamedtoDisney'sBoard         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology & Business: Morgan Stanley's Gorman Is Named to Disney's Board
          By Robbie Whelan and Denny Jacob                                        
          400 words                                                               
          30 November 2023                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Walt Disney's board appointed Morgan Stanley Chief Executive James Gorman and former Sky CEO Jeremy
          Darroch as directors as it faces the prospect of two separate shareholder challenges.
          Disney said the appointments reflect its commitment to a strong board focused on long-term performance,
          strategic growth initiatives, succession planning and increasing shareholder value. Chief Executive Bob Iger
          in recent weeks has told investors and employees that the company has begun building its future after a
          period of fixing problems.                                              
          The entertainment giant said Darroch's appointment adds international media expertise to the board and is
          effective Jan. 9. Darroch was CEO of Sky from 2007 to 2021, leading Europe's largest media conglomerate,
          which has been a unit of Comcast since 2018.                            
          Gorman has been chief executive of Morgan Stanley since 2010 and is expected to be succeeded by Ted
          Pick on Jan. 1. His appointment, effective Feb. 5, will give Disney's board a new member with experience
          overseeing a major corporate transformation who has been part of a "well-managed succession process,"
          Disney said.                                                            
          Document J000000020231130ejbu0003j                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FedProbesMorganStanleyOverItsLaunderingControls---Atissueishowbank'swealth-managementunitvetsforeigners
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Fed Probes Morgan Stanley Over Its Laundering Controls --- At issue is how bank's wealth-
          management unit vets foreigners                                         
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          525 words                                                               
          9 November 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Morgan Stanley's wealth-management arm is being scrutinized by the Federal Reserve, which is looking into
          whether the bank has sufficient controls in place to prevent rich foreign customers from laundering money.
          The Fed has been probing how Morgan Stanley vets foreigners and the origins of their money before taking
          them on as customers, according to people familiar with the matter. What started out as a routine review a
          few years ago escalated after regulators found the bank's due diligence on clients and
          anti-money-laundering efforts lacking.                                  
          The Fed has privately reprimanded the bank for not making all the changes it has required, and the head of
          Morgan Stanley's wealth-management business, Andy Saperstein, has been meeting with the Fed to address
          how he and his team are going to clean up the problems it has found.    
          Rich foreigners are a relatively small but important source of new inflows for Morgan Stanley's
          wealth-management business, which oversees a total of about $5 trillion in assets for clients. During the past
          roughly five years, Morgan Stanley ramped up recruiting of financial advisers who specialize in catering to
          offshore clients, many in Latin America.                                
          In 2020, the Fed found that the bank lacked risk-management controls for vetting foreign wealth-management
          clients, the people said. It gave a list to Morgan Stanley of the problems that needed to be fixed. When the
          regulator returned in 2021, many items on that list remained unfixed. The same occurred when the Fed
          returned last year.                                                     
          That is when Saperstein got more involved. In 2022, he went to the Fed and presented a plan on how the
          bank would fix the problems once and for all. He and his team have about 18 months to go before the plan he
          presented is complete.                                                  
          Wealth management is a critical source of revenue for Morgan Stanley -- it has grown to account for close to
          50% of overall revenue -- that helps offset droughts in deal making and trading.
          This expansion was spearheaded by Chief Executive James Gorman, who on the bank's earnings call in April
          expressed an interest in getting more client assets in the U.S., Asia and "some in LatAm." (Morgan Stanley
          recently said firm veteran Ted Pick would become its new CEO.)          
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley remains under a separate multiagency investigation for its handling of funds tied to an
          alleged Venezuelan money-laundering scheme. The Justice Department, Securities and Exchange
          Commission and other federal agencies have been probing whether Morgan Stanley allowed a Venezuelan
          businessman to help a former oil minister in the country launder money through the bank, The Wall Street
          Journal reported in 2021. They are looking into why Morgan Stanley managed roughly $100 million in
          investments for the Venezuelan businessman when his account displayed red flags for potential
          money-laundering activities.                                            
          Document J000000020231109ejb90001k                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MorganStanleyIsBackingPlant-BasedFoodMakerHuel                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Morgan Stanley Is Backing Plant-Based Food Maker Huel                   
          By Luis Garcia                                                          
          383 words                                                               
          1 November 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Morgan Stanley is backing Huel, a supplier of plant-based food powders and meal-replacement drinks,
          marking the second deal made by the bank's investment-management arm from its 1GT carbon-reduction
          strategy.                                                               
          Morgan Stanley's investment-management arm invests from the 1GT fund in businesses that will help the firm
          reach its 2050 goal of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by a gigaton -- or about 10% of the carbon-dioxide
          gas the world's forests absorb annually. The growth strategy focuses on areas such as mobility, power,
          sustainable food and agriculture, as well as recycling.                 
          By last May, Morgan Stanley raised $500 million for the 1GT fund, or about halfway toward a $1 billion target
          for the vehicle. Overall, the bank's investment-management arm oversees around $1.4 trillion.
          In the only other investment so far through the 1GT strategy, the asset manager co-led a $50 million
          commitment to supply chain-focused Everstream Analytics this year. The German company uses
          artificial-intelligence technology to help clients improve the efficiency of their suppliers and make their
          operations more sustainable.                                            
          Vikram Raju, head of climate private-equity investing for Morgan Stanley's investment-management arm, said
          Huel attracted the firm with its large and growing active customer base, which the company said expanded by
          22% in fiscal 2022. The bank also noted rising demand for alternative meals, he said.
          Raju, who leads the 1GT strategy, said his team saw people drinking Huel products in the bank's London
          office, prompting them to check out the business. They liked what they found. "It was an opportunity to
          partner with what was already a compelling brand in Europe," he said of Huel.
          Document J000000020231101ejb10000v                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MorganStanley'sGormanChoseaGoodTimetoExit---TheCEObuilttherightbankfortheyearsoflowrates,butthateracouldendunderhissuccessor
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Morgan Stanley's Gorman Chose a Good Time to Exit --- The CEO built the right bank for the years of
          low rates, but that era could end under his successor                   
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          664 words                                                               
          30 October 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          James Gorman guided Morgan Stanley through years of superlow interest rates and booming stock markets.
          His successor, Ted Pick, might have to come up with some new ideas for a new era.
          Gorman, who will step down at the end of the year after almost 14 years as chief executive, bet big on wealth
          and asset management by absorbing all of Smith Barney and later buying E*Trade and Eaton Vance. Since
          the start of 2010, when he became CEO, the firm's 8.6% annualized total return has been second only to
          JPMorgan Chase's among the U.S. global banks, according to FactSet data. And by valuation, Morgan
          Stanley has often been the leader of the pack, generally trading at a higher price-to-book ratio than even
          JPMorgan since the start of last year.                                  
          Morgan Stanley's steady money-management business helped the firm steer through the post-2008 financial
          crisis changes that reshaped Wall Street trading. In investment banking, Morgan Stanley's vaunted
          technology franchise put it in pole position during a venture-fueled boom. Morgan Stanley's leading equities
          trading and fund management businesses benefited from bull markets, too.
          Gorman and Pick, who has spent his entire career at Morgan Stanley, have in interviews so far stressed the
          continuity represented by this move. "This is about keeping going a great thing," Pick told The Wall Street
          Journal.                                                                
          But recent results have shown that a potential new era for markets -- defined by higher interest rates, leading
          to more cautious venture investment and an investor rotation toward income and bonds -- could be looming.
          Investment-banking revenue at Morgan Stanley was down by more than that of rival firms in the third quarter
          compared with a year earlier. And Morgan Stanley faces the prospect of having to sell debt used to finance
          Elon Musk's takeover of Twitter at a loss, as well as unresolved investigations into its block-trading business.
          In wealth management, net revenue was down from the prior quarter as clients traded less and sought more
          yield on their cash. They rotated into higher-cost deposits, pressuring the firm's net interest income. There
          also was a smaller inflow of net new client assets than in recent quarters.
          At its core, though, the firm remains in a strong position. Having the ballast of high-margin wealth and
          asset-management fees continues to insulate it from some of the boom-and-bust cycles inherent in
          investment banking.                                                     
          And thanks to Gorman's prudent management of capital, Pick will have resources. Morgan Stanley's common
          equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.5% as of the third quarter, more than two points ahead of current
          requirements. That will be especially helpful as tougher Federal Reserve rules loom.
                                                                                  
          Pick initially made his name in the business of stocks. But he also led the successful turnaround of the firm's
          bond-trading division. The fixed-income markets unit remains smaller than those at other megabanks, and
          might continue to be, given that Morgan Stanley isn't as big in the commercial lending business that helps fuel
          its rivals. Still, leaning on those desks at a time of high and volatile interest rates could help offset any
          extended slowdown in mergers and IPOs.                                  
          A time of uncertainty can create opportunities. Buying out the rest of Smith Barney from Citigroup in 2013
          was a major move for Gorman. And purchasing E*Trade just after the move to zero commissions, but just
          before a historic boom in retail trading, helped erase doubts about that move, too.
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          If Pick does decide at some point to make big transformational bets of his own, he should aim to replicate at
          least one part of his predecessor's recipe for success: good timing.    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020231030ejau0000p                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          MorganStanleyDeterminesIts'Succession'                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Morgan Stanley Determines Its 'Succession'                              
          By Rob Copeland                                                         
          863 words                                                               
          27 October 2023                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          4                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Mr. Pick's ascension caps an unusually public three-way race to replace James Gorman, who presided over
          steady growth after taking over in 2010.                                
          Morgan Stanley, one of Wall Street's most prestigious banks, said on Wednesday that it had chosen Ted Pick,
          a three-decade veteran of the firm, to be its next chief executive, ending an unusually public three-way race
          that James Gorman, the chief executive since 2010, once jokingly compared to the television series
          ''Succession.''                                                         
          Mr. Pick will begin his new role in January. His rivals for the job, Andy Saperstein and Dan Simkowitz, will
          take on bigger roles as co-presidents, overseeing Morgan Stanley's wealth management and sales and
          trading businesses, among other areas.                                  
          Mr. Gorman, 65, said he hoped and expected that Mr. Saperstein and Mr. Simkowitz would stay for the long
          term. The bank did not make either man available to be interviewed.     
          ''We were lucky that we had three really talented internal candidates,'' Mr. Gorman said after the
          announcement. ''Everyone told me that would lead to some major tribal wars -- that didn't happen.'' The bank
          had publicly identified those internal candidates, a departure from the typically hush-hush process favored by
          much of corporate America for top jobs.                                 
          Mr. Pick, 54, joined Morgan Stanley in 1990 and rose through the ranks in its investment banking and trading
          businesses, most recently serving as a co-president overseeing those units. In an interview, he said he hadn't
          found out that he would be named chief executive until around 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, when the bank's board
          of directors called him into a meeting and welcomed him with a standing ovation.
          He stands to inherit a very different bank from the one Mr. Gorman took over after the 2008 financial crisis.
          Morgan Stanley's big bets on subprime loans soured during the mortgage meltdown, leaving it reeling from
          enormous losses and forcing it, like many of its peers, to search for outside investors and seek a government
          bailout.                                                                
          Mr. Gorman steadied the bank by focusing on building its brokerage business, including the Smith Barney franchise it acquired in 2009,
          which