Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to American Express, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
american_express_company_2023_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them? Some
          security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect th... ................................................................................ 2
          For American Express, Rewards Get a Little Less Costly........................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity(ASpecialReport)---VirtualCreditCards:WhatAreTheyAndShouldYouUseThem?Somesecurityexpertssaythecardscanhelpshoppersprotectth...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them?
          Some security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect themselves from online fraud
          By Cheryl Winokur Munk                                                  
          1,305 words                                                             
          27 November 2023                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Customers of credit-card firms such as Capital One, Citibank and American Express can generate a
          virtual-card number for an individual purchase when they are concerned about the security of using their
          permanent-card number. This free service uses regular credit-card accounts to generate unique numbers,
          card-verification codes and expiration dates.                           
          American Express, for example, has a partnership with Google that works with the Chrome browser.
          Consumers shopping from a Google Chrome browser on their desktop, Android mobile device or select
          Android apps can choose to use an Amex virtual-card number. They first have to enroll an eligible card in one
          of several ways outlined on the company's website.                      
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ForAmericanExpress,RewardsGetaLittleLessCostly                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          For American Express, Rewards Get a Little Less Costly                  
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          412 words                                                               
          23 October 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          But things are improving on this front for American Express.            
          Variable customer-engagement expenses -- which include rewards and other perks -- represented about 40%
          of revenue in the third quarter, Amex reported on Friday. That is down from 41% a year before.
                                                                                  
          While 1 point might not seem like much, it can translate into hundreds of millions of dollars in additional profit
          annually. The company said on Friday that it expects those expenses to represent 42% of revenue overall
          this year, versus its guidance of 43% at the beginning of the year.     
          Amex said Friday that as it adds new points-redemption partners, this is changing the weighted average cost
          per point.                                                              
          In plain English, this means that retailers or other merchants that want to be a place where people can spend
          their points are willing to do it on terms that are a bit more favorable to Amex.
          When asked by analysts on Friday about the impact of the recent flap over the frequent-flier program at Amex
          partner Delta Air Lines, Amex Chief Executive Officer Stephen Squeri said "we haven't seen anything from a
          card spending. . .or from a card acquisition" point of view.            
                                                                                  
          Squeri said Delta card spending grew almost 20% year over year.         
          Delta had sparked customer complaints when it changed its program to reward bigger spenders rather than
          the most-frequent fliers. As part of Delta's changes to the program in response to customer concerns, some
          Amex cardholders will get a boost in airport lounge access.             
          On Friday, broader worries about the economy and interest rates hit bank stocks, with Amex falling around
          5% alongside peers. But rewards costs are a longer-term trend to keep an eye on, not just for card
          companies but for merchants as well.                                    
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020231023ejan0000e                                      
```