Here is the cleaned text file with only the content related to Wells Fargo & Company, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
wells_fargo_&_company_2023_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wells Fargo Pressured for Failing to Monitor Crime ................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WellsFargoPressuredforFailingtoMonitorCrime                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wells Fargo Pressured for Failing to Monitor Crime                      
          By Ben Eisen and Ben Foldy                                              
          839 words                                                               
          17 November 2023                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Wells Fargo is struggling with its regulatory obligation to monitor financial crime, the latest challenge in the
          bank's yearslong effort to recover from a series of scandals.           
          Regulators issued the bank formal orders to be better at catching criminals who may be using its accounts or
          products, according to people with knowledge of the matter. At the same time, the bank is facing a lawsuit
          claiming it allowed an alleged $490 million Ponzi scheme to operate.    
          The regulators are focused on the bank's consumer-watching systems, not any specific client or event, but
          the lawsuit's allegations suggest what can go wrong when a bank's monitoring systems fail.
          A Wells Fargo spokeswoman said the bank disputes the lawsuit's allegations and has cooperated with
          law-enforcement officials in their investigation.                       
          Banks play a crucial behind-the-scenes role in monitoring the movement of money to prevent crimes such as
          laundering and terrorism.                                               
                                                                                  
          The regulators privately rebuked Wells Fargo several times since early last year for improper oversight of
          criminal activity in its consumer bank, the people said.                
          Concerns were identified by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in what
          are known as matters requiring attention and matters requiring immediate attention. The bank's fix-it work is
          continuing, and a public penalty such as a consent order hasn't been ruled out, the people said.
          Last year, after the concerns were identified, Wells Fargo replaced its executive responsible for compliance
          with the Bank Secrecy Act, which requires banks to keep records and file reports relating to illegal activity.
          Neither the regulatory rebukes nor the personnel move was previously disclosed.
          Wells Fargo is rebuilding its sprawling risk and control apparatus so it can better prevent and catch problems.
          The 2016 revelation that employees created millions of fake customer accounts to meet sales goals led to
          heightened scrutiny in every corner of the bank.                        
                                                                                  
          Regulators determined the bank had inadequate risk management and, as punishment, the Fed capped the
          size of the bank's balance sheet. That penalty, the stiffest of Wells Fargo's nine outstanding consent orders,
          has been in place for more than five years.                             
          Wells Fargo was penalized for failing to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money-laundering rules.
          An OCC consent order that ran from 2015 to 2021 focused on problems in its commercial bank, a unit
          separate from the consumer bank.                                        
          The Ponzi-scheme lawsuit alleges Wells Fargo fell short of its responsibilities.
                                                                                  
          Matthew Beasley allegedly ran a Ponzi scheme that funneled money through his Wells Fargo account, before
          the alleged scheme collapsed last year. Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation shot him during an
          attempted search at his Las Vegas house. He survived the shooting and is awaiting trial on several counts of
          fraud. He has pleaded not guilty.                                       
          A court-appointed receiver looking to recover funds for victims of the alleged scheme sued Wells Fargo,
          saying it aided and abetted the fraud by maintaining the account.       
          "It will all be clear as soon as they go through my emails and my bank records," Beasley told an FBI
          negotiator on the phone as he lay bleeding on the floor of his home, according to a transcript of the
          conversation.                                                           
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wells Fargo denied in court filings that "it had actual knowledge of, or provided assistance to, any alleged
          wrongdoing by Beasley."                                                 
          Beasley, an attorney, allegedly operated a scheme through an interest on lawyers' trust account, which had
          been opened at Wells Fargo for his small legal practice in 2017. This type of special account is intended to
          allow attorneys to hold funds on their clients' behalf.                 
          Beasley told the bank that he was a solo practitioner attorney with around $350,000 in annual revenue, the
          lawsuit said. Transactions quickly eclipsed that figure. An average of roughly $584,000 flowed into the
          account each month in its first year, the suit said. In 2022, shortly before the fund collapsed, the account was
          receiving more than $28.4 million a month, the suit said. Many of the transactions noted the funds were
          supposed to be invested, the suit said. Beasley allegedly withdrew millions of dollars to pay gambling debts
          and fund a lavish lifestyle.                                            
          The lawsuit said Wells Fargo failed to put a stop to it despite its having "a bird's-eye view of the fraud."
          Concerns raised by some employees were alleged to have been repeatedly overruled by superiors, according
          to the lawsuit.                                                         
          Beasley maintained a close relationship with bankers at Wells Fargo, the suit said. The attorney allegedly had
          a standing weekly meeting with one of his bankers. Wells Fargo's business banking team once invited
          Beasley to a pro hockey game, the lawsuit said.                         
          The parties are in settlement talks, according to filings.              
                                                                                  
          In updates to victims of the scheme, receiver Geoff Winkler said he expects the bank to settle the suit,
          potentially paying in excess of $100 million.                           
          Document J000000020231117ejbh0001n                                      
                                                                                  
```