Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to Discover Financial Services, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
discover_financial_services_2024_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: Discover Finds a Buyer, Nvidia Hits New Heights....
          2                                                                       
          A Bad Day for Tech Stocks Drags Down Wall Street............................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35 billion in
          all-stock deal ............................................................................................................................................................ 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin5Stocks:DiscoverFindsaBuyer,NvidiaHitsNewHeights
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: Discover Finds a Buyer, Nvidia Hits New
          Heights                                                                 
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          418 words                                                               
          24 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES                                             
          DFS +13%                                                                
          Capital One Financial is taking over Discover. The bank said it will acquire Discover for more than $35 billion
          in a deal that would combine two of the largest U.S. credit-card companies. Discover is one of the few
          companies in the U.S., aside from Visa and Mastercard, that operates a payments network, a system that
          allows businesses to process credit-card purchases. Discover shares gained 13% Tuesday, while Capital
          One shares edged 0.1% higher.                                           
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240224ek2o0001d                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ABadDayforTechStocksDragsDownWallStreet                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          A Bad Day for Tech Stocks Drags Down Wall Street                        
          By The Associated Press                                                 
          665 words                                                               
          21 February 2024                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
                                                                                  
          Outside of earnings, credit card company Capital One Financial rose 0.2 percent as it moves ahead with a
          $35 billion buyout of Discover Financial Services. Discover soared 12.9 percent for the biggest gain in the
          S&P 500.                                                                
                                                                                  
          Document NYTF000020240221ek2l0004o                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CapitalOneSetToBuyCardRivalDiscover---Acquisitionofsmallercompetitorisvaluedat$35billioninall-stockdeal
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35
          billion in all-stock deal                                               
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Lauren Thomas                                
          860 words                                                               
          20 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Capital One said it will buy Discover Financial Services for more than $35 billion, in a deal that will marry two
          of the largest credit-card companies in the U.S.                        
          Under the terms of the all-stock deal, Discover shareholders are set to receive 1.0192 Capital One shares for
          each Discover share, representing a premium of about 27% based on Discover's closing price Friday. After
          the deal closes, Capital One shareholders will hold roughly 60% of the combined company, with Discover
          shareholders owning the rest.                                           
          Capital One is making a big bet at a booming time in the credit-card sector. More consumers are moving from
          paying with cash to cards as a result of generous rewards programs and the digitization of commerce -- a
          transition that accelerated with the pandemic. A recent increase in credit-card-debt has provided a further
          boost to issuers.                                                       
          Buying Discover would give Capital One, a credit-card lender with a market value of a little over $52 billion, a
          network that would vastly increase its power in the payments ecosystem. 
          Card networks are critical to enabling transactions and setting fees that merchants pay when consumers
          shop with credit cards. Though much smaller than Visa and Mastercard, Discover is one of the few
          competitors to those companies in the U.S., and it is one of a small number of card issuers that also has a
          payments network.                                                       
          Capital One, the ninth-largest bank in the country and a major credit-card issuer, uses Visa and Mastercard
          for most of its cards. The bank plans to switch at least some of its cards to the Discover network, while
          continuing to use Visa and Mastercard on others. Those larger networks have more merchant acceptance
          abroad than Discover does.                                              
          Capital One also plans to maintain the Discover brand on the cards and network -- assuming regulators sign
          off and the deal is consummated.                                        
          Discover, based in Riverwoods, Ill., is an online institution so the takeover wouldn't come with physical bank
          branches, except for one location in Delaware.                          
          The deal follows a tumultuous period for Discover that has included increased regulatory scrutiny and a
          change in leadership.                                                   
                                                                                  
          The company disclosed last year that an internal review found it had misclassified certain credit-card
          accounts beginning in 2007, incorrectly placing them in the highest merchant-and-acquirer pricing tier. The
          company established a liability of $365 million to account for estimated compensation owed to merchants and
          acquirers.                                                              
          Separately, Discover received a consent order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In October,
          Discover said it would address the FDIC order to improve its consumer-compliance operations.
          In December, Discover said financial-industry executive Michael Rhodes would become its chief executive
          officer and president. He took over from John Owen, who had been serving in the interim after Roger
          Hochschild stepped down in August.                                      
          Discover has been approached by large banks and technology companies about an acquisition of all or a
          part of its business over the past decade or more.                      
                                                                                  
          Tech companies have been interested in acquiring its network so that they can play a more central role in
          payments, but prior senior executives at Discover weren't interested in separating the company's credit-card
          lending side from the network.                                          
          For Capital One, the deal would also further expand the number of cardholders it will count as customers for
          its credit-card lending business. Many Discover cardholders have high credit scores.
          Discover also has consumer deposits, most of which are in savings accounts, allowing Capital One to
          continue to expand its already large presence in that area.             
                                                                                  
          Rising credit-card usage is also a boon to the billions of dollars in interchange fees banks collect every year.
          The fees are set by card networks and paid by merchants when consumers shop with cards. By owning the
          Discover network, Capital One could negotiate interchange fees and other terms directly with merchants for
          card transactions that travel over its network, making Capital One more of a competitor to Visa and
          Mastercard.                                                             
          An acquisition of Discover would rank among the biggest deals so far in 2024. After a lull in M&A activity in
          2023 as economic and other uncertainty and increased interest rates took a bite out of the appetite for deals,
          volumes have gotten off to a relatively strong start and are up 90% in the U.S. compared with a year earlier,
          according to Dealogic.                                                  
          Document J000000020240220ek2k0001s                                      
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
```