Here's the cleaned text file with only content relating to Bank of America, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
bank_of_america_corporation_2024_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bank of America Reverses Pledge Against Fossil Fuels ......................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BankofAmericaReversesPledgeAgainstFossilFuels                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          National Desk; SECTA                                                    
          Bank of America Reverses Pledge Against Fossil Fuels                    
          By Hiroko Tabuchi                                                       
          875 words                                                               
          4 February 2024                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          19                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          The changes come as Republican lawmakers step up efforts to punish businesses that consider climate
          change and the environment in their operations.                         
          Two years ago, Bank of America won kudos from climate activists for saying it would no longer finance new
          coal mines, coal-burning power plants or Arctic drilling projects because of the toll they take on the
          environment.                                                            
          The bank's latest environment and social-risk policy reneged on those commitments. The policy, updated in
          December, says that such projects will instead be subject to ''enhanced due diligence.''
          Bank of America's change follows intensifying backlash from Republican lawmakers against corporations that
          consider environmental and social factors in their operations. Wall Street in particular has come under fire for
          what some Republicans have called ''woke capitalism,'' a campaign that has pulled banks into the wider
          culture wars.                                                           
          States including Texas and West Virginia have passed financial regulations designed to ward off efforts to
          deny fossil-fuel companies access to banking services. In New Hampshire, state lawmakers have sought to
          criminalize the business principle known as E.S.G., shorthand for environmental, social and governance.
          These actions have sent a chill through the E.S.G. world. Last year, big investors pulled money out of
          sustainability-focused funds at a record rate as they shied away from the sector amid conservative criticism.
          Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset management firm BlackRock and once a prominent proponent of
          E.S.G., said last June that he had stopped using the term because it had become too politicized.
          Bank of America said in a statement that clients or transactions ''that carry heightened risks will continue to
          go through an enhanced due diligence process involving senior level risk review.''
                                                                                  
          In late 2021, the bank's policy stated that it ''will not directly finance new thermal coal mines or the expansion
          of existing mines'' or ''petroleum exploration or production activities in the Arctic.'' It also would not ''directly
          finance the construction or expansion of new coal-fired power plants, including refinancing recently
          constructed plants'' unless those facilities employed carbon capture or similar technology.
          That language is gone from its updated policy.                          
          Even as it rolls back it commitments, the bank continues to say that coal, a major contributor to global
          warming, faced ''significant challenges'' as the world stepped up its efforts to address the climate crisis.
          Moreover, Bank of America says that ''the Arctic is a unique region with specific considerations to take into
          account including those of marine and wildlife, a fragile ecosystem and the rights of Indigenous Peoples.''
          The bank declined to give details of what its risk review would include.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
          To environmental advocates, banks' backtracking has effects beyond the financing itself. It ''sends a very bad
          signal,'' said Lucie Pinson, director of Reclaim Finance, a nonprofit that scrutinizes the climate strategies of
          fossil-fuel companies. ''Bank of America is sending a message to its clients that it's OK to take up new
          fossil-fuel assets,'' she said. ''We should have stopped developing such assets years ago.''
          This article appeared in print on page A19.                             
                                                                                  
          Document NYTF000020240207ek2400008                                      
```