Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2021_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S. IPOs Modernize On Digital Platform ................................................................................................................ 2
          JPMorgan to Acquire Owner Of Zagat Restaurant Guide ........................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- JPMorgan Wins Control Of China Unit ........................................................................................... 5
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming spending boom,
          bankers say .............................................................................................................................................................. 6
                                                                                  
          Wall Street's New Rivalry: Who Can See the Most People in Person --- Dealmakers get back on the road, and
          JPMorgan awards points for meetings ................................................................................................................... 14
                                                                                  
          Wall Street Split on Forcing Bankers to Return to Office ....................................................................................... 16
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S.IPOsModernizeOnDigitalPlatform                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          U.S. IPOs Modernize On Digital Platform                                 
          By Corrie Driebusch                                                     
          676 words                                                               
          24 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A new technology platform backed by the biggest U.S. banks and money managers is aiming to bring the
          IPO market into the 21st century.                                       
          The syndicate desk -- a longtime fixture at banks across Wall Street where IPOs and other large stock sales
          are priced and allocated to investors -- has long clung to traditional ways of doing business like phone orders
          and scribbled pieces of paper, even as other businesses go digital.     
          Capital Markets Gateway LLC has set out to change that. Backed by Franklin Templeton, Fidelity
          Investments, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, among others, CMG
          was launched in 2017 by former bankers at Robert W. Baird & Co.         
          Its platform currently provides data and analytics on follow-on stock sales, block trades and initial public
          offerings, as well as a list of who the underwriters are for each offering. Later this year, the firm plans to
          expand its offering to enable investors to place orders for IPOs and other equity-capital-markets deals on the
          computer rather than doing so verbally over the phone, according to Chief Executive and co-founder Greg
          Ingram, who previously ran ECM at Baird.                                
          When the system is up and running, buy-side firms -- of which nearly 100 are signed up -- will be able to see
          what deals are pricing when, what the terms are and digitally enter their orders with lead bankers, so long as
          they have an existing relationship with them.                           
          Once IPOs and other offerings are priced, instead of waiting until the following morning to learn via a phone
          call if they received any allocation, fund managers can find out electronically that same evening. They also
          can see over the platform a breakdown of the commissions owed.          
          (Over the last year or so, Goldman, Morgan Stanley and others have launched their own direct-order entry
          systems to facilitate some IPOs, but they are bank-specific.)           
          Whether the new platform works and -- perhaps a bigger if -- whether IPO-market players ultimately prove
          willing to change the way they have done business for years, remains to be seen.
                                                                                  
          But everyone agrees, the system is ripe for improvement.                
          Ben Batory, head of Franklin Equity Group Trading at Franklin Templeton, said for decades he and his team
          have kept track of how many shares they asked for in IPOs -- as well as how many they received and at what
          price -- on loose sheets of paper.                                      
          He and his counterparts at other firms talk of calling multiple bankers on a deal to make sure their orders are
          recorded correctly. And then they wait.                                 
                                                                                  
          The morning after an IPO prices, a banker calls them, tells them how many shares they got, at what price,
          and what percentage of fees they owe to each of the dozen or so underwriters. It is up to Mr. Batory, or
          someone in his shoes, to keep track of it all.                          
          "All these things are ripe for error," he said. "There can be five deals a day, and you need to get the amount
          right, get the commission right, and it's all chicken scratch on a piece of paper on my desk. It's incredibly
          challenging."                                                           
          This year -- the busiest ever for U.S.-listed IPOs and equity capital markets as a whole -- has put the problem
          in sharp relief. Traditional U.S.-listed IPOs, not including special-purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs,
          have raised roughly $110 billion, surpassing every other full year in Dealogic's records, while more than $480
          billion has changed hands in ECM deals.                                 
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          About 20 IPOs a week have priced on average; some weeks that number has surpassed 40.
          "It used to be that fund managers looked at IPOs and follow-ons," said Michael Wilcox, another CMG
          co-founder who hails from Baird. "Now they are looking at IPOs, follow-ons, PIPEs [private investment in
          public equity], SPACs and crossover investments. The only way to truly be able to focus on the investment
          decision is to utilize technology."                                     
          Document J000000020210924eh9o0003x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgantoAcquireOwnerOfZagatRestaurantGuide                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan to Acquire Owner Of Zagat Restaurant Guide                     
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Benjamin Mullin                              
          328 words                                                               
          10 September 2021                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          America's biggest bank is buying the company behind the Zagat brand.    
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. said on Thursday that it has reached a deal to acquire the Infatuation, which owns
          websites and apps that guide diners to eat like locals in cities around the world.
          The company also hosts a biannual food festival, Eeeeeatscon, where restaurants serve food in a stadium
          while musicians and speakers entertain attendees.                       
          JPMorgan is buying all of the Infatuation's business, including the decadesold restaurant brand Zagat.
                                                                                  
          The Infatuation purchased Zagat from Alphabet Inc.'s Google for an undisclosed amount in 2018, the same
          year it raised $30 million from WndrCo, a technology and media investment firm co-founded by Hollywood
          mogul Jeffrey Katzenberg.                                               
          Banks don't usually buy media companies. But JPMorgan has made a push to attract big spenders who like
          to travel and dine out, particularly through credit-card rewards. Last year, the bank rolled out Chase Dining in
          its Ultimate Rewards portal, which gives certain cardholders access to hard-to-get dining reservations and
          other perks.                                                            
          Sapphire Reserve and Preferred cardholders get access to virtual events with chefs, mixologists and
          restaurateurs.                                                          
          Founded in 2009 by record executives Chris Stang and Andrew Steinthal, the Infatuation has grown from a
          scrappy review site known for its branded Instagram hashtag ("#Eeeeeats") to a global taste maker in the
          world of cuisine.                                                       
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan plans to give some of its customers, including credit-card holders, special access to the
          Infatuation's curated experiences, like Eeeeeatscon, and to certain content on its website.
          Mr. Stang will continue to run the business, which will operate as a separate brand within the bank.
          The Infatuation doesn't disclose its finances, including whether it is profitable.
                                                                                  
          The company was exploring options including raising funds in recent months, according to a person familiar
          with the matter, and ultimately opted for an outright sale of the business.
          Document J000000020210910eh9a0002x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---JPMorganWinsControlOfChinaUnit                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- JPMorgan Wins Control Of China Unit                        
          By James T. Areddy                                                      
          119 words                                                               
          7 August 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Friday it was granted permission to take full control of a securities business in
          China, a first for an international firm and a continuation of financial-market liberalization by Beijing at a time
          of waning confidence in its markets.                                    
          After years of slow-walking promises to allow access to its financial markets by Wall Street giants, China has
          loosened rules to give firms more opportunity to trade securities in the country and build investor bases.
          The fresh market access also follows a slump in foreign investor sentiment about China's financial markets,
          following regulatory pressure from Beijing on various sectors including technology and education.
          Document J000000020210807eh870003x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessPilesUpRecordUnusedCredit---Increasedcorporatedemandcouldhintatacomingspendingboom,bankerssay
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business Piles Up Record Unused Credit --- Increased corporate demand could hint at a coming
          spending boom, bankers say                                              
          By David Benoit                                                         
          760 words                                                               
          5 August 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Businesses are sitting on record amounts of unused credit from U.S. banks, another quirk in the economic
          recovery that bankers have said could help unleash pent-up spending in the coming months.
          Bank executives said their business clients have in recent months ramped up requests for credit lines that
          can be drawn quickly for spending on inventory, labor or expansions.    
          Companies aren't actually drawing the money into their bank accounts just yet. Businesses are already
          stuffed with cash, and supply-chain issues and labor shortages have crimped their ability to spend it. Those
          unexpected conditions are acting like kinks in the economy's attempts to restart from the dramatic braking in
          2020.                                                                   
          But bankers said the activity in recent months is evidence that businesses are planning to turn on the
          spending spigot. That could help the economy shoot higher.              
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., the two biggest banks in the U.S., at the end of June
          together had nearly $1 trillion in unused commitments to lend to corporate clients. That is up 20% from a year
          ago and a quarterly record at both banks.                               
          "This virtuous circle of hiring workers and meeting customer spending will help drive the economy, and
          hopefully will result in more line usage on our loans," Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan told
          analysts last month.                                                    
          For large banks with a bigger concentration on commercial lending, there has been an average 21% increase
          in unused commercial and industrial credit compared with the prior year, according to a review of available
          filings by Janney Montgomery Scott analysts.                            
                                                                                  
          The Federal Reserve's survey of senior loan officers in July reported that banks were getting more inquiries
          from commercial and industrial borrowers about both new and increased credit lines. The banks also said
          they had loosened their restrictions on the maximum size of the lines.  
          Bank executives said the demand is coming from companies in healthcare, industrial products, food products
          and wholesale supply. They said companies appear to be arming up in hopes they can build back inventory
          quickly if their supply chains can deliver the products they need.      
          For instance, auto dealers starved of inventory are sitting on large unused credit lines, executives at several
          banks said.                                                             
          Bankers view the untapped credit as a sign that their corporate clients are optimistic about the economy's
          trajectory.                                                             
                                                                                  
          In a June survey of commercial-banking clients, JPMorgan found business confidence at its highest level in
          the survey's 11-year history. About 46% of the businesses surveyed said they expect to increase capital
          spending and 38% said they would need to increase their credit, a sharp rise over the past two years.
          "I've never seen anything quite like it," said Jim Glassman, the head economist at JPMorgan's commercial
          bank. He said businesses are planning ambitious spending projects, especially on automation and
          technology.                                                             
          For banks, the unused credit isn't particularly helpful because they can't charge interest on the money until it
          is drawn. With bond markets surging, cash aplenty and interest rates near zero, banks have struggled to
          increase loans and lending profits. That has become a focal point for investors wondering if bank stocks can
          keep rising.                                                            
          Page 6 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The credit lines are something of a green shoot that would typically lead to higher borrowing in the coming
          months, executives said.                                                
          "The good news inside all that is we're actually winning a lot of clients and we're extending facilities at a pace
          beyond where we've been for a bunch of years," PNC Financial Services Group Inc.'s CEO William Demchak
          said on a conference call with analysts. "The problem is they're just not drawing."
          It is still unclear how much of the unused credit will turn into spending. In March 2020, when much of the U.S.
          shut down to slow the spread of Covid-19, businesses raced to draw down their credit lines in an effort to
          stockpile cash. They have continued to add cash in the months since.    
          The lingering memory of the shutdowns might spur businesses to keep their powder dry for some time,
          especially during a surge of new infections from the highly contagious Delta variant.
                                                                                  
          "It may be an evolution," said Christopher Marinac, a bank analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott. "Some of
          this may be building a better toolbox because what we learned from Covid is we have to be prepared."
          Document J000000020210805eh850001q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WallStreet'sNewRivalry:WhoCanSeetheMostPeopleinPerson---Dealmakersgetbackontheroad,andJPMorganawardspointsformeetings
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Wall Street's New Rivalry