Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to Ally Financial Inc., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
ally_financial_inc_2021_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Auto Lenders Have Gas In the Tank --- Some have a lot working in their favor right now....................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          AutoLendersHaveGasIntheTank---Somehavealotworkingintheirfavorrightnow   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Auto Lenders Have Gas In the Tank --- Some have a lot working in their favor right now
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          551 words                                                               
          21 July 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B16                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Big auto lenders such as Ally Financial are enjoying some historic conditions. Things may not be quite this
          good in the future, but it is too soon to trade in the shares.          
          When other lenders are struggling to sustain yield and loan growth, Ally on Tuesday reported records for
          quarterly revenue and for the number of completed consumer auto-loan applications. It also had the best
          credit performance by one key measure in its 102-year history, when it began as a lending arm of General
          Motors Co., with a net gain on charge-offs of 0.02 percentage points. This means that, with recovery values
          so high due to soaring car prices, it made money on charged-off loans.  
          Yields on auto leases in particular are tremendous right now since the vehicles are worth so much at the end
          of their terms. Auto leases generated a yield of 11.67% in the second quarter, up more than 3 percentage
          points from the first quarter and nearly triple their level a year ago. 
          The dilemma now for investors is how to figure out how to normalize from here. Used-car price gains will
          surely start to slow at some point. For now, auto-lending stocks are getting somewhat cheap on a forward
          price-to-earnings basis as their earnings rise even as other stocks baking in better times ahead --
          spending-related plays like Visa, Mastercard or American Express -- are trading at relatively high multiples. A
          rapid return to normal might make the relatively expensive stocks look like bargains in retrospect and the
          cheap ones look pricier.                                                
          Still, auto lenders such as Ally might be better all-weather bets for now. For example, they would continue to
          benefit from tight supply, but also wouldn't necessarily fall off too much if car lots do start to accumulate a bit
          more inventory when supply-chain crunches ease or used-car demand slows. That would boost loan growth
          to dealers and might even invite more buying by consumers. Spending-related stocks, meanwhile, won't have
          as many defensive qualities if the economic recovery is tepid or is slowed by another wave of Covid-19
          infections.                                                             
          The worry in auto is that high yields bring in competition and tempt lenders to loosen underwriting terms and
          lower pricing. So far though, Ally Chief Executive Jeffrey Brown said "we probably would have expected a
          little bit more competition than we're seeing."                         
          Ally says that it forecasts credit and used-car price trends to begin to moderate later this year and to keep
          doing so through 2023. It expects typical future lease yields at about half the level where they are now. But
          the company still carries reserves in excess of even more historically typical loss rates, and it has more than
          2 percentage points of excess capital over its targeted minimum, leaving room for capital return.
          It also has been able to gather deposits at a quicker pace since the pandemic began, so it is replacing more
          expensive liabilities with cheap digital-banking consumer deposits.     
          That is enough fuel for shareholders not to worry too much about getting stranded yet.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020210721eh7l0001c                                      
```