MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to
welcome everyone to The Goldman Sachs Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being
recorded today, January 19, 2021. Thank you.
Ms. Miner, you may begin your conference.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Heather Kennedy Miner
Partner & Global Head-Investor Relations, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Good morning. This is Heather Kennedy Miner, Head of Investor Relations at Goldman Sachs. Welcome to our
fourth quarter earnings conference call. Today, we will reference both our strategic update and the earnings
presentations, which can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.gs.com. Note
information on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures appear in both presentations. This audiocast
is copyrighted material of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and may not be duplicated, reproduced or rebroadcast
without our consent.
I'm joined by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David Solomon; and our Chief Financial Officer, Stephen
Scherr. This morning, we are pleased to review the firm's fourth quarter and full-year performance in addition to
providing an update on the strategic plan we outlined at last year's Investor Day. David and Stephen will be happy
to take your questions following their remarks.
I'll now pass the call over to David. David?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Thanks, Heather, and thank you everybody for joining us this morning. Let me begin with page 1 of our strategic
update presentation. I'm pleased to report that 2020 was a year of strong performance for Goldman Sachs, as we
successfully navigated an unexpected operating backdrop characterized by near-record volatility and
correspondingly high client activity. This year was marked by an extraordinary decline in economic activity in the
second quarter brought on by COVID-19 and a dramatic reversal in the third and fourth quarter as economic
output and unemployment partially reversed course.
This volatility contributed to severe dislocation across asset classes, which was met by profound fiscal and
monetary action taken across the globe. Goldman Sachs met the needs of our clients, relying on dynamic
management of the firm's liquidity and balance sheet to provide complex risk intermediation, financing solutions,
advice and innovative thought leadership. Momentum remained strong into year-end, as we produced record
revenues for the fourth quarter of $11.7 billion, resulting in record quarterly earnings per share of $12.08.
For the full-year, we grew revenue by 22% to $44.6 billion, our highest revenue production in more than a decade,
which allowed us to generate meaningful operating leverage. We delivered a full-year ROE of 11.1%
notwithstanding a nearly 4 percentage point impact of litigation expense. This revenue growth was clearly driven
by a larger opportunity set given the extraordinary activity throughout 2020. While industry wallet grew, we also
took meaningful market share across businesses and geographies. We continued to demonstrate the strength of
our diversified business.
3


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
We maintained our leading global position in completed M&A, as we have for 19 of the past 20 years, and strong
league table positions in underwriting, including the number one ranking in equity and equity-linked offerings and
a top three ranking in high yield. We delivered robust performance in Global Markets in both FICC and Equities on
solid client activity across our global platform and grew market share across businesses and client groups. Our
next generation trading talent now in positions of leadership demonstrated strong risk management discipline and
client focus in executing against an expanding opportunity set.
In Asset Management, we had record management and other fees, as well as continued growth in our assets
under supervision. We also generated solid revenues from on-balance sheet investments, driven by public marks
and event-driven gains on our portfolio. We continued our broader effort to reduce the balance sheet intensity of
this business as we transitioned to more third-party investing. We continue to provide high quality advice to our
Wealth Management clients, producing record revenues and generated strong growth in our Consumer business.
Finally and perhaps most importantly, we maintained a resilient and highly liquid balance sheet and demonstrated
agility in the deployment of capital to serve clients amid high levels of market volatility and evolving regulatory
constraints. While we are cautiously optimistic given improving macro trends, we recognize that the operating
backdrop will continue to evolve. Although we are now seeing the initial roll-out of vaccines in the US, UK and
other nations, there remains significant uncertainty in the path forward related to virus resurgence, vaccine
distribution, and further fiscal stimulus and geopolitical risks.
Let me underscore that progress on economic growth is contingent on an effective vaccine roll-out program
globally. I urge political leaders at all levels and across all jurisdictions to do everything possible to implement a
coordinated and comprehensive distribution plan. In its absence, economic recovery will be unnecessarily
delayed. Economists continue to anticipate a mixed outlook for near-term growth. The expectation is that it'll take
until at least the second quarter to return to pre-pandemic levels of output. Our economists expect GDP growth
this year of roughly 6.5% both globally and in the US, which would suggest a more rapid recovery.
Though circumstances around COVID-19 remain fluid and we remain vigilant about risks in the markets and
potential weaknesses in the broader economy, looking ahead, the extreme volatility of 2020 is unlikely to repeat
given the government actions taken last year. Nevertheless, I am confident that Goldman Sachs will continue to
benefit from the established wallet share gains made in 2020 across an expanding client set, particularly in
Investment Banking and Global Markets, and continue to develop more durable revenue sources across Asset
Management and Consumer & Wealth Management.
With that, let me turn to page 2. In the 12 months since our Investor Day, we have made steady progress towards
our medium-term goals and we remain confident that we will achieve these targets, as well as our longer term
goal of mid-teens or higher returns. Our 2020 ROE, when adjusted to exclude the impact of litigation, comfortably
exceeds our 13% medium-term target. We are pleased with our progress on funding diversification, as we grew
deposits by $70 billion in 2020.
While the Fed funds rate declined faster than the reduction in our deposit rates, we've since adjusted our pricing,
which should allow us to achieve our funding optimization goals by 2022. We are making headway in realizing
expense efficiencies throughout the organization and have achieved approximately half of the $1.3 billion initial
target we presented at our Investor Day. We will continue to make progress from here and will evaluate additional
opportunities for further expense savings.
4


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Finally, with respect to capital, our CET1 ratio stands at 14.7%. This positions us well to serve clients and
accelerate capital returns to shareholders in the first quarter. We continue to believe that a 13% to 13.5% ratio is
appropriate for the firm over the medium-term. We are encouraged by the results of the recent mid-cycle stress
test. That said, we will continue to proactively reduce the stress capital intensity of our businesses, including
through continued sales of our on-balance sheet private equity investments.
As John, Stephen and I have emphasized many times, we are committed to holding ourselves accountable and
being transparent with our stakeholders on our progress. We are tracking roughly 30 firmwide KPIs and many
additional business-level metrics on a regular basis to measure our success as we execute on all aspects of our
strategy.
Let me now turn to page 3. While last January's Investor Day seems distant given the events of the past year, the
pillars of our strategic direction remain unchanged. Our strategy is simple: first, to grow and strengthen our
existing franchise and capture higher wallet share across a wider client set; second, to diversify our products and
services in order to build a more durable earnings stream; and third, to operate more efficiently, so that we can
drive higher margins and returns across the organization. We are seeing early success in each category.
Moving to page 4, the strength of our firm's culture is the foundation for our performance as individuals in the firm
and is central to the success that we achieved in 2020. Delivering the entire firm to our clients through our One
Goldman Sachs approach is crucial to our mission, and clients remain at the center of everything we do. The
investments we made to break down internal silos and motivate better collaboration across the firm have been
critical and will continue to guide our approach going forward.
Equally, core to our mission is delivering on our firm's purpose to advance sustainable economic growth and
financial opportunity. This purpose is fundamental to our 10-year $750 billion sustainable finance commitment that
cuts across two broad pillars, climate transition and inclusive growth. During the year, we have worked closely
with our clients to deepen knowledge and expertise, develop capabilities and accelerate commercial activity.
We are delivering integrated ESG solutions across our client base, and I'm proud of the firm's leadership on this
topic and optimistic about the benefits that these opportunities will bring to our clients. As we pursue these
ambitious goals, we will also continue to focus on our people. Diversity is an imperative for our organization. For
Goldman Sachs, it is about bringing diverse people, perspectives and abilities together to best serve our
stakeholders. It fosters more creative thinking and supports the inclusive sustainable growth that is core to our
long-term business strategy.
While our recent progress is encouraging, including the most diverse campus analyst class ever to join the firm
this past summer and improved diversity of our most recent partner and managing director classes, the events of
the past year have reinforced how much further we have to go to enhance diversity and inclusion throughout the
firm. This remains a personal priority for me, and we will continue to hold ourselves accountable to make further
advancements, including through our new aspirational goals to drive diverse hiring at more levels of the firm.
Let me now take you through each of our four operating segments, and we'll start with Investment Banking, where
we remain the advisor of choice for corporations around the world. In 2020, as measured against the goals set out
at our Investor Day, we maintained our number one ranking in announced and completed M&A and equity and
equity-linked offerings. We also ranked in the top four for wallet share on global debt underwritings through the
third quarter. We spoke last January about our aim to grow share in our core business. We began to execute on
this goal in 2020, as announced M&A deal count was up along with our equity underwriting wallet share.
5


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Our footprint expansion efforts – on our footprint expansion efforts, we have met our Investor Day target for client
coverage. We generated in excess of $800 million of revenue in 2020 from this client set, and we expect this to be
an important source of growth going forward. Across the business, we have added approximately 2,700 net new
clients since 2017, and we will continue to add new clients to sustain this pace. We are cautiously optimistic on
the outlook for Investment Banking, given the robust activity revels in the capital markets and the elevated
strategic activity on the back of improving CEO confidence reflected in our near-record backlog at the end of the
year.
We are also pleased with the early success of our transaction banking platform with – which since its launch last
June has attracted roughly 225 corporate clients and nearly $30 billion of deposits and is well-positioned to drive
growth and more durable revenues for the firm. The combination of our attractive product offering, strong client
receptivity and tailwinds created by the macroeconomic environment drove deposit growth ahead of expectations.
As we work to deliver greater functionality to clients and continue their onboarding, we will convert more of these
deposits to operational, providing increased funding utility to the firm. We also continue to look for innovative ways
to expand the reach of our platform to new clients, as we did with our recent partnership with Stripe, which
embeds our transaction banking payment and deposit solutions directly into Stripe's platform, making these
products available to its millions of small business customers.
Let me now turn to page 6. In 2020, our Global Markets business posted its strongest net revenues in a decade,
exceeding the return targets laid out for the business at Investor Day. Global Markets is a business that many
believed should have been downsized when John, Stephen and I took our seats. While it's only a single year, the
performance of the business in 2020 is an early validation of our decision to stay the course.
Our teams worked diligently to serve our clients through the challenges of 2020, providing liquidity across asset
classes, intermediating risk and engaging in structured solutions, while also supporting significant volumes across
expanding digital platforms. We also advanced on our Investor Day objective of moving into a top three position
with more of the top 100 institutional clients. We are now in the top three across 64 of these firms, up from 51 a
year ago.
We gained 120 basis points of wallet share through the third quarter of 2020, which we intend to maintain through
our deepened client relationships, superior risk intermediation and ongoing investment in technology platforms.
We set a goal in January to increase our client financing activity. Our record FICC financing revenues for 2020
demonstrate our ability to meet this target. Additionally, we continued to strengthen our prime business, where we
closed the year with record balances, the result of a multiyear investment in platform enhancements and other
client-oriented initiatives, particularly in the quant space.
Finally, while we saw meaningful revenue growth in Global Markets, we remain focused on operating efficiency.
We achieved roughly $400 million in expense efficiencies last year and allocated $1.25 billion of capital in that
business to more accretive opportunities, both ahead of schedule. Across any level of industry wallet, the
progress that we have made in Global Markets has improved the business' structural return profile.
Let me now turn to page 7. Our Asset Management business experienced solid performance in 2020, marked by
continued growth in assets under supervision driving record management and other fees. Our status as one of the
world's leading global asset managers has served us well during this volatile period. Our Asset Management
business provides clients with offerings across the spectrum from liquidity to alternatives, and we will continue to
grow this business opportunistically by serving our clients' needs and differentiating our offerings with holistic
advice, investment solutions and portfolio implementation.
6


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
We are progressing well towards our longer term objectives of $250 billion of growth in traditional Equity and
Fixed Income products and $100 billion of net inflows to alternatives. To that end, we spoke at Investor Day about
growing our third-party alternatives business, and we are pleased with our early achievements. We have raised
approximately $40 billion in commitments to-date across asset classes including private equity, private credit and
real estate. This is good progress toward our goal of $150 billion in gross fundraising over five years.
Additionally, we're encouraged by the expanding number of institutions that are investing with Goldman Sachs.
Many pension funds and international institutions participating in recent fund offerings are new investing clients to
the firm. As we shift towards a greater emphasis on third-party funds, we also continue to work to optimize the
capital consumption of our Asset Management business. To that end, we sold or announced the sale of over $4
billion of gross equity investments in 2020 with a related $2 billion of expected lower capital.
We will continue to advance the sell-down process in 2021 and beyond to achieve the objectives we set out in our
Investor Day. Importantly, as we highlighted at Investor Day, incentive fees on portfolio remain unrecognized until
investments are sold and fund return thresholds are achieved. Our estimated unrecognized incentive fees
currently stand at $1.8 billion.
Turning to page 8, we made meaningful advancements this year in growing our Consumer & Wealth Management
segment, particularly in expanding our customer base, building our technology platform and leveraging our
corporate franchise. We remain committed to delivering tailored advice and simple and transparent financial
solutions to our individual clients across the wealth spectrum, and our goals here remain integral to our strategic
priorities.
Our Wealth Management franchise remains a crown jewel for the firm. Revenues grew 10% year-over-year to a
record $4.8 billion, as our clients largely remained invested through uncertain market conditions. In our Private
Wealth Management business, this success has long been built on the strength, depth and trust of client
relationships, which became even more relevant as COVID-19 limited face-to-face interaction.
Throughout this period, our private wealth advisors have continued to maintain high levels of client engagement
and delivered trusted advice. While the environment has caused us to slow some of our hiring efforts in this area,
we remain committed to the growth potential of this franchise. We also continue to expand our high-net-worth
platform through Ayco and Personal Financial Management, our rebranded United Capital business.
Our Ayco platform achieved its annual goal of bringing more than 30 new corporate clients on to the platform in
2020, as corporates of all types increasingly look to Ayco for financial planning and wellness solutions. We remain
well-positioned to meet this ongoing need, given Ayco's broad spectrum of offerings, as well as its connectivity
with our Investment Banking franchise and our new Personal Financial Management capabilities. We have
already begun to see significant synergies as a result of these advantages with over 4,000 referrals in 2020,
representing over $7 billion of AUS opportunity across these channels.
Moving to page 9, I want to provide some additional detail on our Consumer business, which continues to perform
well and deliver strong growth. The pandemic has reaffirmed our view that traditional banking has not kept up with
the way people live their lives today and that Goldman Sachs is uniquely placed to step into this gap. We've had
early success launching online savings, lending and credit card, and we are now moving to the next phase of our
growth plan, taking us from a series of singular products to a more comprehensive offering.
7


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
We are particularly excited about the launch of Marcus Invest platform in the US this quarter, which for the first
time brings the investing expertise of Goldman Sachs directly to mass affluent customers. Following our US
launch, we plan to expand to the UK in the second half of the year. Marcus Invest will offer individuals the ability
to invest as little as $1,000 in our proprietary asset allocation strategies with options [ph] ranging (00:19:49) from
index funds to ESG-focused ETFs.
Digital investing features will be integrated into the Marcus app and website and will combine the accessibility,
simplicity and transparency of Marcus with our leading investment advisory capabilities. In addition, our new
digital checking offering, also scheduled for launch this year, will deliver an enhanced customer experience that is
simpler and more transparent than what traditional banks have historically offered, providing smart money
management tools that help consumers take control of their financial lives.
As we grow, we will not only serve customers directly through the Marcus platform, but we will also serve
customers through our growing partnership channels. In 2020, we launched four new partnerships with Amazon,
Walmart, JetBlue and AARP, all following our first partnership with Apple. We also recently announced our
second co-branded credit card with General Motors, another sign of our ability to be the banking partner of choice
for leading corporations across a variety of industries.
Our partners value our scale, innovation, engineering prowess, robust infrastructure, regulatory status, and
importantly, the power of The Goldman Sachs brand. The opportunity set here is very large with each partner
reaching tens of millions of individuals through their existing customer bases. With that as background, let me
also comment on 2020 Consumer performance, which exceeded our expectations, but which also has
implications for our financials as we go forward. We proactively adjusted our strategy beginning in March as the
impact of COVID-19 and the evolving market conditions began to take shape.
We tightened underwriting standards to reduce risk, deliberately slowing our Consumer loan growth across both
unsecured loans and Apple Card. Given the economic outlook, we also significantly grew our reserves for
potential future losses. At the same time, we continued to raise deposits at a pace meaningfully higher than we
had expected, as clients remained attracted to the value of our products and the strength of our brand. Taken
together, our pre-tax loss in Consumer excluding reserve build was reduced versus 2019 levels and lower than
our expectations for 2020.
Looking forward, we have a clear opportunity to achieve break-even excluding reserves for existing product set
including checking and investing in 2022. That achievement would be one year later than initially anticipated due
to business adjustments driven by COVID. For 2021, pre-tax loss for our Consumer business excluding the
impact of reserves is likely to be higher and look more like what we had initially expected for 2020. This is driven
by lower value on deposits, tighter credit standards and additionally the investment in our new General Motors
Credit Card.
Beyond 2021, we will continue to invest where appropriate and opportunities to build additional functionality with
our digital bank, as well as to pursue further growth in our partnership channel. In terms of broader functionality,
we may look to develop additional products, driving more comprehensive customer experience over time. These
investments, if pursued, may delay our planned break-even for the business. I want to emphasize, however, that
should we choose to invest in additional products to broaden our Consumer capabilities, it will not affect our ability
to meet our enterprise-level targets.
With respect to partnerships, these opportunities with corporate clients of the firm allow us to commercially
engage with a broader consumer population and are designed to build on the platform-based architecture that we
8


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
have built for our proprietary Marcus business. Just as we did with Apple Card, our intent is to develop
differentiated products and service offerings that are embedded in our partners' ecosystems and tailored to the
spending, borrowing and investing needs of their customers. From an economic perspective, these opportunities
are designed to materially reduce our customer acquisition costs and leverage the embedded cost base of our
systems.
Furthermore, partnerships we seek to pursue offer the firm potential for mid-teens returns at scale. Each
partnership is intended to extend beyond a single product and bring scale to our business on favorable economic
terms. Goldman Sachs has a history of building businesses with a long-term orientation. Our investment in our
Consumer business will continue to be dynamic and appropriately sized to support our ability to achieve our long-
term financial targets, and in the interim, it will not prevent us from reaching our medium-term firmwide goals.
Before I close, let me share that I'm incredibly proud of the progress we've made in 2020, which was a
transformative year for Goldman Sachs. Our success could not have been achieved without the extraordinary
efforts of our people, who continue to put clients at the center of everything we do. I am humbled by the level of
commitment I see across our organization every day, knowing many of the personal and professional challenges
our people are navigating.
As we look forward, I know there will be further challenges, but I'm optimistic about the potential for Goldman
Sachs in the coming years. I believe in our strategic plan, in our leadership team, in our culture and in the raw
talent of our people. Taken together, these attributes will better enable us to achieve higher and more sustainable
returns for our shareholders.
Let me now turn it over to Stephen to review funding, expenses and capital as part of the Investor Day update.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Thank you, David, and good morning. Let me continue the presentation on page 10. We are pleased with the
progress made to-date on the diversification of our funding. The achievement of our medium-term funding goals
remains a significant source of forward value for the firm. As you will recall, our ambition is to achieve $1 billion in
annual revenue uplift over the medium-term from growth in deposits, enhancement to our asset liability
management and the optimization of our liquidity pool.
Along with the broader industry, we experienced material shift in the rate environment in 2020. With Fed funds
declining over 150 basis points, the relative value of our deposits remained positive, but lower than projected at
Investor Day. What's more, since we are modestly asset-sensitive as a firm, our assets repriced more quickly than
our liabilities. As 2020 progressed, we were able to adjust our deposit pricing to reflect the broader downward
movement in rates.
While we did not achieve savings in 2020, with greater volume and now updated pricing in the Consumer
channel, we remain on track to achieve our $1 billion run-rate savings target. We also remain well-positioned to
capture further savings, as we expand our offerings in Marcus, deepen our client relationships and rely less on
pricing as a lever for customer acquisition.
While the focus has been on consumer deposits, our total deposits grew by $70 billion in 2020 across multiple
strategic channels, including particularly strong flows in transaction banking. Importantly, deposits comprised
approximately 50% of our total unsecured funding base at year-end, in line with our medium-term target. As the
9


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
recent environment has helped accelerate our deposit gathering efforts, growth will likely be more moderate in the
near-term in light of our entity funding needs.
We continue to grow assets within our bank entities, where we have traditionally lagged our peers. We now have
approximately one-quarter of the firmwide balance sheet held in the firm's bank entities versus roughly 15% in
2017. We have also made improvements in our asset liability management, but we continue to employ a
conservative funding approach focused on term and diversification.
Let me now move to page 11 and expenses. We remain on track to achieve the target laid out at Investor Day of
$1.3 billion in expense savings over the medium-term, accomplishing approximately half of our goal over the past
year. The achievement of these efficiencies has enabled us to partially offset the cost of investment in our
business and our people in 2020.
Our experience over the past 12 months has given us even greater confidence in several of the key elements of
this plan. In particular, we are already seeing important benefits from our investment in automation and
consolidation of platforms, including increased straight-through processing rates and reduced cost per trade. In
addition, we continue to generate efficiencies from structural adjustments to our employee base through our front-
to-back realignment, location strategy and evaluation of pyramid structure.
On the non-compensation front, consolidation of offices in London and Bengaluru, focus on transaction-based
expenses and more centralized expense management processes have all contributed to early success. The
remote work environment has also catalyzed an increased focus on our location strategy. Last January, we
expected that 40% of our employees would ultimately work from one of our strategic locations, and we will
continue to evaluate the potential for that number to grow over time. We will also look to expand into new strategic
locations around the globe, as well as consolidate our footprint where appropriate in keeping with our evolving
business mix.
Now, turning to page 12 and capital, our capital management philosophy remains unchanged. We seek to deploy
capital on accretive terms, both in our incumbent businesses and in areas of growth investment, and otherwise,
return excess to our shareholders. While our ratios initially declined in early 2020 as we committed capital to
support clients navigating the pandemic, and we received an SCB result in the 2020 CCAR process that was
higher than anticipated. Our standardized CET1 ratio at year-end was 14.7%, accomplished through strong
earnings, lower capital return, and disciplined balance sheet management. Importantly, we are pleased with the
results of the recent interim stress test, and we intend to resume share repurchases this quarter.
As in the past, and as permitted, we will continue to reassess our dividend commensurate with the strategic
direction of our business. We will be dynamic in our approach, both to reflect proactive steps to reduce capital
consumption in the business and as a function of capital requirements more in line with the results of the interim
CCAR examination. As such, we continue to target the CET1 ratio of 13% to 13.5% over the medium term, which
will inform our capital deployment decisions.
As we look ahead, we remain engaged with the Federal Reserve to improve stress modeling in CCAR. As David
mentioned earlier, we have already sold or announced the sale of $4 billion in assets with $2 billion of related
capital reduction. That said, in the first quarter, we will adjust our equity attribution across our segments to more
appropriately reflect the firm's higher SCB based on the results of CCAR 2020.
Given the higher stress loss intensity of our equity positions, the capital attributed to Asset Management will be
larger, and so will the capital reduction associated with our intended sell-down of assets. This change will not
10


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
impact our stated medium-term targets, and in fact, we intend to increase the size and accelerate the pace of
asset sales beyond that anticipated at Investor Day, so as to further reduce the capital intensity of the segment
beyond our original ambition.
Speaking more broadly, there are several key drivers affecting capital requirements for the firm overall: first, our
stress capital buffer which we expect to improve as I have noted; second, our G-SIB surcharge where we ended
the year at 3% to meet client demands, the impact of which will take effect in 2023; and lastly, our management
buffer which we plan to run between 50 basis points and 100 basis points accounting for volatility and client
activity.
Before turning to our earnings report, let me finish on page 13 with a slide that David first presented at Investor
Day one year ago. Our strategic direction is guided by these objectives. We are pleased with our progress to date
in strengthening our existing businesses, growing our new businesses, and operating the firm more efficiently.
Early success in 2020, however, does not diminish our focus on forward execution. We have work to do from here
and will continue to drive more durable earnings and enhanced returns for our shareholders. In all cases, we will
continue our commitment to transparency and accountability, and we look forward to updating you further on our
progress in the year ahead.
With that, let me now switch gears to our separate earnings presentation to cover the fourth quarter and full year
results. First, to quickly recap our financial results on page 1, fourth quarter net revenues were $11.7 billion
resulting in $44.6 billion for the full year, a growth rate of 22%. In the fourth quarter, we delivered net earnings of
$4.5 billion and record quarterly earnings per share of $12.08. As David mentioned, the firm delivered full-year
ROE of 11.1%. Litigation burdened our full year returns by nearly 400 basis points.
Turning to page 2 and our individual segments. As we noted earlier, Investment Banking delivered outstanding
performance in 2020. In the fourth quarter, net revenues were $2.6 billion. Advisory revenues were $1.1 billion,
more than double third-quarter levels, reflecting growth in the number of completed M&A transactions. We
advised on over 350 transactions that closed during the quarter, representing over $1 trillion of deal volume,
roughly $150 billion ahead of our closest peer.
Equity underwriting produced a record $1.1 billion of revenue in the quarter as industry volumes remained
elevated and we continued to gain market share. This drove record full-year revenues in equity underwriting of
$3.4 billion supported by $115 billion of deal volume across nearly 600 transactions. In an extraordinary year for
equity issuance, we participated in 120 traditional IPOs, 70 private transactions, and a number of SPAC IPOs,
providing clients advice and access to capital in innovative forms.
Turning to debt underwriting, net revenues were $526 million, down 8% sequentially, reflecting lower investment-
grade transactions, partially offset by strength in leverage finance. Full-year revenues of $2.7 billion were a new
record and up 26% versus 2019. Our franchise remains well positioned as evidenced by our number 3 high yield
league table ranking for the year.
Looking forward, as David mentioned, our Investment Banking backlog is at near-record levels, significantly
higher versus the third quarter and a year ago. Client dialogues remain robust, and we are optimistic on activity
across a broad set of sectors including TMT, FIG, and health care.
Fourth quarter net revenues from corporate lending were negative $119 million, reflecting roughly $250 million of
hedge losses against the relationship loan book as credit spreads tightened. Recall that for risk management
11


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
purposes, we maintain single name hedges on certain large relationship lending commitments. Of note, in
relationship lending, the total notional drawn or funded on revolvers is now back down to pre-COVID levels.
Moving to Global Markets on page 3. Net revenues were $4.3 billion in the fourth quarter, up 23% versus last
year. For the full year, Global Markets generated $21.2 billion of net revenues, up 43% versus 2019 driven by
stronger FICC and Equities intermediation performance. This represents the highest yearly revenues for the
segment in a decade.
Turning to FICC on page 4. Fourth quarter FICC net revenues were $1.9 billion, up 6% year-over-year. Our
growth versus last year was driven by higher FICC intermediation revenues, where we saw increased client
activity, while FICC financing revenues were roughly flat. Three out of five FICC intermediation businesses posted
higher fourth quarter net revenues versus the prior year, reflecting the continued strength and breadth of our
business.
In credit, we saw significantly better performance helped by elevated activity and market share gains, driven, in
particular, by outperformance in portfolio trading, notably across our digital platforms. In commodities, net
revenues were driven by stronger performance across most assets including metals and agricultural products. In
currencies, net revenues rose on solid performance in emerging markets as volatility rose across most currency
pairs. In mortgages and rates, net revenues were lower year-on-year, though client activity remained solid,
particularly, in mortgages around CMBS and mortgage intermediation. And in rates, activity remained elevated as
a consequence of a number of macro events including the US election and COVID and the overall reflationary
theme.
Moving over to Equities, net revenues for the fourth quarter were $2.4 billion, up 40% versus a year ago. Full-year
revenues of $9.6 billion were the highest since 2009. Fourth quarter Equities intermediation net revenues of $1.8
billion reflected stronger results in derivatives across all regions as well as higher cash revenues helped by strong
performance in program trading. Equities financing revenues of $591 million were down 19% year-over-year due
to higher net funding costs including the impact of lower yields on our liquidity pool. Importantly, as David
mentioned, client balances rose to record levels.
Moving to Asset Management on page 5. Our Asset Management activities produced net revenues of $3.2 billion
in the fourth quarter. For the full year, Asset Management generated net revenues of $8 billion, down from a
strong 2019 as equity and debt investment performance was challenged in the first half of 2020. Fourth quarter
management and other fees totaled $733 million, up 10% versus a year ago on higher average assets,
contributing to record full-year net revenues of $2.8 billion.
Across the Asset Management segment, our AUS stood at a record $1.5 trillion at year-end. Our equity
investments generated $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter on gains on our public and private investments. More
specifically, on our $3 billion public equity portfolio, we generated roughly $745 million in gains from investments
including Kaspi and Sprout. And on our $17 billion private equity portfolio, we generated net gains of
approximately $775 million from various positions, substantially all of which were driven by events, including
corporate actions such as fundraisings, capital market activities, and outright sales. Additionally, we had operating
revenues of $250 million related to our portfolio of consolidated investment entities.
Net revenues from lending and debt investment activities in Asset Management were $637 million on revenues
from net interest income and gains on fair value debt securities and loans. This reflected tighter credit spreads on
our portfolio of corporate and real estate investments.
12


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
On page 6, we show the composition of our Asset Management balance sheet consistent with the information that
we have provided to you in prior quarters. On equity and CIE portfolios remain highly diversified by sector,
geography, and vintage, and our debt investment portfolio is also diversified with segment loans largely secured.
On page 7, turning to Consumer & Wealth Management, we produced $1.7 billion of revenues in the fourth
quarter. Full year net revenues were $6 billion, up 15% versus year ago, driven by higher management and other
fees and strong Consumer Banking growth. For the quarter, Wealth Management net revenues included record
management and other fees of $1 billion. Full-year revenues of $4.8 billion rose 10% year-over-year, and assets
under supervision rose to a record $615 billion at year-end. Total client assets in the segment exceeded $1 trillion
at the end of 2020.
Consumer Banking revenues were $347 million in the fourth quarter, contributing to full-year revenues of $1.2
billion, which rose 40% year-over-year and were diversified across lending, card, and savings. Consumer
deposits remained stable during the quarter despite an additional rate reduction, ending the year at $97 billion
across the US and UK, up $37 billion versus last year. Funded consumer loan balances were $8 billion, of which
$4 billion were from Marcus consumer loans and $4 billion from credit card lending. Importantly, the credit
behavior of our loan and credit card portfolio outperformed our expectations. The portfolio benefited from
improved underwriting as well as the consequences of our consumer assistant plans.
Next, let's turn to page 8 for firm-wide assets under supervision. Total AUS rose to over $2.1 trillion during the
quarter and are up nearly $290 billion versus a year ago. The sequential change was driven by $17 billion of long-
term inflows, $6 billion of liquidity inflows, and $86 billion of market appreciation.
On page 9, we addressed net interest income and our lending portfolio across all segments. Total firm-wide NII
was $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter, up versus a year ago, primarily reflecting growth in the firm's balance sheet,
particularly, in Global Markets as well as the benefit from credit card balances and repricing of deposits in
Consumer & Wealth Management. Equally, this activity is reflective of the decision to allow our G-SIB surcharge
to increase to 3%.
Next, let's review loan growth and credit performance across the firm. Our total loan portfolio at quarter-end was
$116 billion, up $4 billion sequentially, largely driven by modest growth in loans in Consumer & Wealth
Management and real estate warehouse lending. Our provision for credit losses in the fourth quarter was $293
million, roughly flat sequentially and down versus a year ago. The quarter's provisions were driven primarily by
continued growth in lending in our Consumer business and wholesale impairments, offset by some reserve
releases driven by improving macroeconomic conditions.
Given our announced partnership with General Motors and the planned acquisition of the current loan receivables
from Capital One, we expect to recognize approximately $200 million of associated provisions in the first quarter.
At quarter-end, our allowance for credit losses for both loans and commitments stood at $4.4 billion, including
$3.9 billion for funded loans. Our allowance for funded loans was flat versus last quarter at 3.7% for our $103
billion accrual portfolio, including an allowance for wholesale loans of 2.7% and for consumer loans of 15.9%. For
the full year, we recognized firm-wide net charge-offs of $907 million resulting in an annualized net charge-off
ratio of 0.9%, up 30 basis points versus last year.
Next, let's turn to expenses on page 10. Our total operating expenses were $5.9 billion in the fourth quarter. For
the full year, our efficiency ratio was 65%, which includes a nearly 800-basis-point impact from litigation expense.
On compensation, our philosophy remains to pay for performance, and we are committed to compensating top
talent. While compensation expenses were up 8% year-over-year relative to growth in revenue net of provisions
13


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
for credit losses of 17%, our full-year compensation ratio is at a record low, reflecting the operating leverage in
our franchise. As we have said in the past, we view the compensation ratio metric as less relevant to the firm as
we build new scale platform businesses. On non-compensation expense, our cost for the full-year 2020 rose 25%
versus last year.
Excluding litigation, our full-year operating expenses grew by only 8%, inclusive of investment spend across the
business and higher variable expenses associated with transaction volumes. Growth was partially offset by
efficiency savings and lower travel and entertainment costs due to the circumstances of COVID-19.
Finally, on taxes, our reported tax rate was 18.7% for the fourth quarter and 24.2% for the year, reflecting the
impact of nondeductible expenses. We continue to expect our tax rate over the next few years to be
approximately 21% under the current tax regime.
Turning to our capital levels on slide 11. As previously discussed, our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio increased to
14.7% at the end of the fourth quarter under the standardized approach, up 20 basis points sequentially. Earnings
were largely offset by higher RWAs as we stepped in to serve our clients. Our ratio under the advanced approach
increased 50 basis points to 13.4%.
Turning to the balance sheet, total assets ended the quarter at $1.2 trillion, rising 3% versus last quarter as we
deployed resources to facilitate client activity, particularly, within our prime brokerage business. We maintained
very high liquidity levels with our global core liquid assets averaging $298 billion, reflecting the current backdrop.
On the liability side, our total deposits were roughly flat at $260 billion as planned roll-off of higher cost broker
deposits was partially offset by modest growth in consumer, private bank, and transaction banking deposits.
In conclusion, our strong fourth quarter and 2020 results reflect the diversification of our client franchise,
resilience of our business model, strong risk discipline, and flexibility in our balance sheet deployment. David,
John, and I are proud of our people for their efforts this year in serving our clients and delivering on our strategic
goals, especially given the challenges of COVID-19. We look forward to furthering our progress on our medium
and long-term targets, and we remain confident that execution of our strategic plan will drive better client
experience, more durable revenues, and higher returns for our shareholders over time.
With that, thank you again for dialing in, and we'll now open the line for questions.
14


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION
Operator: [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore. Please go
ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Glenn Schorr Q
Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Hi. Thanks very much. I'm curious. On slide 6 on the strategic update, you went back and reminded us of the
medium-term target of 10% for Global Markets and [indiscernible] (00:49:39) 14.1% in 2020. Obviously, 2020 was
just a ton of repositioning and need for your assistance. But is that just you being conservative on your best guess
of normalized trading like nothing changed there? And I'm just curious in the way capital is being reshifted
towards Asset Management for private equity. I just didn't know if we should be reading anything more than the
obvious into the medium-term trading targets?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Hey, Glenn. It's Stephen. No, there's nothing more to read. We were just on this slide reiterating the medium-term
target that we had set at 10%. I would point out that while reported ROE in 2020 for Global Markets was 14.1%,
the performance ex-litigation that's otherwise allocated to the segment was 18.1%.
I think the other point I would make here is that as we look forward, and as we've commented several times,
impossible to know what 2021 and beyond hold in terms of what the industry is presented. But I think there have
been some fairly profound structural shift in that business, one, of course, is the expense base is being reduced.
The second is we're much more attuned to the, sort of, agile deployment of capital across. But I think perhaps
most important is the improvement of wallet share and the focus on clients. And David commented a couple of
times on the improvement in overall wallet share growing by 120 basis points through three quarters, and we'll
see what played out for the full year.
But I'd also say that a step-up in where we stand with the objective of being top three across the top 100
institutional clients in Global Markets, I think also reflects that we'll capture at or better than our share on a going-
forward basis, again acknowledging that the market may not look as robust on the forward as it did in 2020 for this
business but the structural changes are important.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Glenn Schorr Q
Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
I appreciate that. Maybe the same kind of concept for the follow-up related to Investment Management. So, I get
the allocation of more capital. I get the capital that you freed up on the announced sales. I know that when you
were initially going down this path, I felt optimistic of your ability to raise lots of third-party money, and you have. I
wonder if you have a thought process on 2021, or it's just continued marching towards the [ph] 150 (00:52:16).
And then the same – I was concerned about selling down private equity would leave an earnings hiccup at some
point, but being that, you have almost $2 billion in unrecognized incentive fees. Do you feel like you can continue
down this, free up capital, sell down private equity, raise third-party cap without a big earnings hiccup? Thanks.
[indiscernible] (00:52:39)
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
15


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. So, let me take both of those. First, on fundraising, I think what's gratifying about the progress made in
2020 was a comment David made about an increasing number of clients new to the firm that are investing with
Goldman Sachs. And so that leaves us optimistic about the prospect of the fundraising pipeline in 2020, which will
be across a range of different investing sleeves, and we'll start to see that growing number of investing clients
look across a range of different product offerings that we have.
On the sell-down, we're very attentive and have always been to the prospect of creating, kind of, a canyon. And
we don't anticipate that to happen, and we'll continue to manage with that in mind.
Now, you draw the right observation, which is there's $1.8 billion of embedded fees to take, which we will take
when gains become irrevocable or irreversible, and so that will buffer. But the point here is that our objective is to
reduce the stress loss intensity of that segment. And so we've spoken about $4 billion in balance sheet sales to
yield $2 billion of capital relief. We equally have line of sight into another $2.5 billion of sales, which could
generate another $1 billion of capital relief.
And I'd also point out, though it's not obvious in the way in which the results play, but over the course of the year,
we sold $2.1 billion of public equities to offset about a $1.9 billion of appreciation in market value. And so, that
equally has capital consequence for us, and so, you'll continue to see us move along along that road.
Finally, on the question or the observation you made about what I was speaking to about what we will do in terms
of attributed equity to that segment that has no bearing on what our objective is, which is to bring capital down.
But as CCAR 2020 was higher, more capital came to the firm. We don't keep a corporate segment, so we allocate
or attribute that equity out to the segments. By definition because of its intensity, Asset Management will pick up
more capital. Obviously, on a unit of balance sheet reduction, more capital will come out as we reduce positions,
which is why we're confident that we'll maintain at or better than what we're indicating in terms of capital reduction
in the segment overall.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Christian Bolu with Autonomous. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Christian Bolu Q
Analyst, Autonomous
Good morning, David and Stephen. Maybe I'll start on Marcus and the digital bank. Thanks for the strategic
update there. But stepping back a bit, how do you think your digital bank's current and future offerings stack up
against the very successful FinTechs like SoFi or Chime? And then just given the very big valuations those
companies have gotten, is there a way for you as a management team to better unlock maybe the value of this
digital bank for shareholders?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
So, Christian, I'll start with that. Good morning, and thank you for the question. And we tried to highlight this in the
update that we're working to go from a product structure with a handful of products to a much more integrated
offering for our customers.
And so when you ask about comparison to some of the FinTechs, I'd just say the FinTechs are much more narrow
in scope in terms of what they offer and don't have the broad capabilities that we have and we're embedding and
16


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
we're expanding on for our clients. So, just in the context of the two examples that you gave in highlighting SoFi or
Chime, when you think about spending across both checking and credit cards, when you think about borrowing
across credit cards and loans and you think about savings and also investing and the investment capabilities that
we have as a wealth manager, we have a much broader integrated offering. And we continue to get feedbacks
that the state-of-the-art product platform and the digital applications that we have are really excellent by any
standards. So, we're going to continue to move forward with that long-term strategy.
I don't really have a comment on the valuation of these businesses, although I'm watching with everyone else and
I'm looking at what we have, the number of clients we have, the number of customers, the size of our business,
the scale that we have as we continue to move forward. And I'm looking at that opportunity, the growth that we
have. And if people like those businesses, I think at some point in time, they should like and value our business
more fulsomely, but we'll continue to execute and wait on that.
We really like our model of having a proprietary platform for Marcus, but then also given our corporate
relationships, the potential for partnerships is very, very strong for us. And I think you saw that in our execution
this year by adding four more partnerships, by capturing the GM card, and I think you'll continue to see us do
more on this front. And so, we feel good about it. But as I said in my comments, we're taking a long-term view in
what we're doing, and none of this will affect our medium-term target that we're working toward at the end of
2022; gets a lot of attention, but it won't affect our targets.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Christian Bolu Q
Analyst, Autonomous
Okay. Thank you. Maybe the question I was asking really around the valuation was, is there something you can
do, [ph] I don't know (00:58:36) spin off the division or something to get better valuation, better currency to build
the business? But I hear your points.
Maybe my second question. Apologies. This is sort of a bit of a knitty question, but I'm trying to understand the
impact of interest rates on the markets business. I guess, in the earnings release, you called out higher funding
cost and lower yields on the liquidity reserve as a headwind to the markets business, but also in the actual deck,
we saw a really big step-up in Global Markets NII quarter-over-quarter. So, maybe just step back here, remind us
how interest rates impact the business, whether it's the current level of interest rates, the strip of the yield curve,
and then some of the liability management actions you've taken. How does that impact the markets business, I
guess, over the coming year?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Sure. So NII, Christian, as you noted, grew; it was at $1.4 billion for the firm in the quarter. That was driven largely
by balance sheet growth, notably in growth markets and most especially in prime. So, our prime balances were
up. The challenging aspect for us and the reference made in the context of funding is that our liquidity grew over
the quarter. We were slower to adjust, particularly, on the retail deposit side pricing of our liabilities, and so, we
didn't capture quite what we wanted. Obviously, we've now brought rates down, and so, we're able to, sort of,
allocate that cost out to the business.
So, liabilities are important. NII expanded because of balance sheet, and impacted overall net funding costs. And
so, that's the reference, if you will, to the headwinds, notwithstanding prime balances growing, funding costs were
higher than we wanted. That notwithstanding, NII grew because of overall balance sheet growth over the course
of the quarter in prime, and by virtue, overall, of moving to a higher G-SIB in the context of meeting client
demands.
17


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Michael Carrier Q
Analyst, BofA Securities,
Inc.
Good morning, and thanks for the update and taking the questions. First, as we get the moderation in Global
Markets, can you provide some color on what areas of the business and strategic initiatives are best positioned to
potentially create some offset over, say, like the next one to two years? I think, it seems like Asset Management
could be one of those or some of the initiatives maybe further out, but any color on timing of growth away from
some expected moderation in Global Markets?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Sure. I mean, I think that first, obviously, what we've been speaking about within the Asset Management business
and the growth of third-party alternatives and the forward durability of those revenues is one area. There's
obviously growth in some of the growth initiatives including transaction banking as well as what we're doing on the
Consumer side. And so, you'll continue to see pickup and share pickup. None of those are necessarily meant to
be compensating factors for what could be a shortfall in Global Markets.
I think within Global Markets, we will buffer structurally speaking what might be a less impressive opportunity set
on the forward relative to 2020 by virtue of what we've done around market share gains, and equally what we're
doing around the cost base. And I'd say also if you look within the Global Markets business, what we're seeing in
terms of the growth in low-touch high-volume activity around Marquee and the digital platforms, particularly
growth in portfolio trading across, I think all of those will spell, sort of, improved performance as a general matter
notwithstanding the market.
Finally, I'd point out that the Investment Banking footprint continues to expand, and that, too, will provide an offset
to the extent that, again, the assumption to your question that we see lower opportunity as an industry matter
within the trading or Global Markets business.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Michael Carrier Q
Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Okay. Great. And then just on the capital side, given your CET1 ratio premium above your expected buffer, how
are you thinking about either need for the business either organic or M&A versus capital return? And just your
commentary on the Asset Management business and understanding maybe the models a tad a bit more, like how
significant could that be longer term as you kind of reposition that?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Sure. So, on capital, look. Our capital philosophy really remains unchanged, which is we look for opportunities for
accretive return on investment in capital in the business and equally meeting client demands that are there.
Separate from that, it's my expectation that we will hit our first quarter repurchase expectations, which based on
the calculation of the Fed will be about $1.9 billion in the quarter, plus neutralizing equity-based compensation
expense. And so, we will fulfill that in the first quarter.
I'd also repeat a comment I made in the prepared remarks is that we'll continue to reevaluate our dividend in the
context of the shape and form of the business being more durable going forward. Obviously, that's not a first
18


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
quarter proposition given the Fed rules, but you can certainly rely on the repurchase expectations and our
fulfillment of them.
In terms of Asset Management, this is all about an overall reduction in the balance sheet intensity of that
business. It is being mindful of revenue in the near term. It's driving down on balance sheet investing and moving
that into third-party activity, doing that across more sleeves with more clients of the firm, and I think that will
continue to take down our capital. And I suspect based on the progress we made in 2020 of taking $2 billion on
$4 billion of sales, and as I mentioned our forward view on what's within line of sight, incremental capital will come
out at or better than the expectations we carried at the Investor Day itself.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Steven Chubak Q
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC
Hi. Good morning, everyone. So, wanted to start off with a question on the trading business. Your share gains in
trading for 2020 were quite impressive, likely represent the strongest gains across the entire globalized e-cohort.
And historically, you've been the dealer of choice for clients during periods of macro stress, given your risk
remediation expertise, and those client needs were really magnified this year due to COVID, raising questions as
to whether the share gains will be sustainable as those client need to moderate. I was hoping you can give some
perspective on what gives you confidence that you can sustain the recent share gains in Global Markets as
activity normalizes, and any differences you're seeing across high versus low touch might be very helpful?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Okay. Thanks, Steve. I'll start. And I appreciate the question. And I'll just – to take your framing, you said
historically, at times of severe stress, you've been a dealer of choice. And you really, you make that statement by
going back and looking at one window which was the financial crisis, and there's no question in the financial crisis.
We had very, very significant share gains. But I would highlight that one of the reasons that we had very
significant share gains during the financial crisis is that a lot of the people that would be in our core competitive
set were in a position of very, very weak structural financial performance at the time. And it definitely inhibited
their ability to intermediate with clients. So, one of the things I recall hearing at that time is a lot of firms did not
show up during the financial crisis, and we benefited from that. I think, hopefully, we benefited for other reasons,
but there was a different component.
We have a very, very different situation right now. Banks have been a source of strength during the pandemic. All
of our competitors have showed up in spades, and yet we had very, very significant share gains. Now, maybe
some of that is a branded reputation that we're a dealer of choice during a pandemic. But I would argue a bigger
impact in really affecting how we performed, and I've heard this consistently from our Global Markets clients, is a
change strategically in our approach over the last few years in terms of how we're facing clients, our One GS
approach, in what we're trying to do.
We talked a little bit in the strategic update in talking about how for the first time over the last couple of years, we
have a targeted approach in evaluating our wallet share with the top 100 clients. It seems relatively
straightforward, but this is not something we had ever done historically. And then we advanced that considerably
over the course of 2020 by going from top 3 with 51 of the clients to top 3 of 64 of the clients. We have a much
more client-centric approach. I've got a lot of feedback call this year from our clients noticing what they said was a
19


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
very different approach in the way Goldman Sachs interacted with them now and versus 10 years ago. And so I
would argue across the platform that orientation is helping our wallet share gains.
Now, I'm not going to sit here and say that in a different environment when the world is more even and we're not
in a crisis that there's not going to be a flattening. In fact, I'd say that across all our businesses. We tend to
outperform in Investment Banking during times of stress, and the market share gains collapsed a little bit in times
when everything is very, very easy. And so, I'm sure there will be some of that. But we have a very, very clear
strategy, very, very clear client-centric strategy that is different, and I think it's led to enhanced wallet share gains.
I'd also say we highlighted this in the context of looking at that business. This goes back to one of the earlier
questions. We made structural improvements not just in the client approach but also in the cost base of that
business and in our capital allocation in that business, and the results are even if we have a different available
client wallet, we have a structurally more profitable business on a go-forward basis. And so, that's the way we're
thinking about that. I hope that's helpful.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
The one other thing I would add to the part of your question you asked about, kind of, high touch and low touch,
which is if you look at our credit business in FICC over Q2, Q3, and Q4, what's interesting is in Q2 and Q3, you
saw amidst very high volatility, a lot of the sort of bespoke idiosyncratic block-like activity that we've long been
known for. What's interesting is if you look at Q4, we started to see very high portfolio trading going on,
rebalancing among asset managers, pension funds, a lot of that going on across our digital platforms. I'll just offer
you that Q2, Q3 and then through Q4 as a reflection of kind of a more – a broader, more robust business that's
better equipped, better capable, better positioned to capture what we've long been known to do, as we did in the
second and third quarter, and some of the more technology-driven, platform-driven trading that is newer and quite
sticky in the context of what we can keep.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Steven Chubak Q
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC
That's really interesting color. I appreciate the perspective from both of you. And just for my follow-up on
efficiency, you spoke of your continued efforts to evaluate additional opportunities for further expense savings. I
was hoping if you can just give some perspective on what some of those opportunities might be, especially as we
think about the need to potentially flex in a tougher macro backdrop. And just one clarifying point, is the $650
million of savings, should we be thinking about the savings already captured versus the 4Q 2020 baseline or is
that versus the full-year 2020 expense base?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael A
Solomon
Chairman & Chief
Executive Officer, The
Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc.
Well, I'll start on that. I'll let Stephen answer the second point with respect to the $650 million. But I just – Steven,
I think the way you should understand that we're thinking about this is we've been re-underwriting the firm and
20


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
trying to do what we can across the platform to operate more efficiently. We set out a target in our Investor Day
and we had a very clear view on the path to that target when we said that a year ago at our Investor Day. And
we're marching through and we're executing on that.
With respect to other opportunities, we continue to evaluate other opportunities and would be hard-pressed to say
that we didn't learn a lot this year in the context of the operating environment that we've been operating this year.
And so, that's giving us new insights into other places across the platform where things can be more efficient. In
addition, our business like lots of businesses is digitizing, and in the context of that, it's allowing us to digitize
processes that historically we've used, we've executed with more manual personnel, so to speak. So, we're going
to continue to focus on that. We do think there are other opportunities. When we have more to say to be more
specific with our continued focus on transparency, we'll give you more specifics.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. To the first part of your question, achieving $1.3 billion was annualized savings. So, we would realize these
savings each and every year, and this was as against kind of entry-level expenses, meaning entering into 2020
when we announced them at Investor Day. But this is achieving a $1.3 billion annual run-rate savings, of which
about half has been achieved. The only other thing I would add on the forward is, obviously, COVID has
accelerated our own thinking about moving populations and taking aggregations of people into different areas.
And so, I think we feel more assured and confident at our ability to do that, the pace of it, and you'll continue to
see that play forward in the achievement of the $1.3 billion or beyond.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Jeff Harte with Piper Sandler. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jeffery J. Harte Q
Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Good morning. Sorry about that.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Hey, Jeff.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Good morning.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jeffery J. Harte Q
Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Am I coming through now?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah.
[indiscernible] (01:13:28)
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
21


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Jeffery J. Harte Q
Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Hey. How are you thinking about the cyclical outlook for capital markets activity levels broadly? And I guess I
come from there's a belief out there that the strength in 2020 was really just a stimulus-driven anomaly and that
maybe we're headed back to 2019 levels. But when I look at historical cyclicality and activity level indicators, it
suggests potential sustainability, if not continued growth. How are you thinking about that as we move into 2021
and 2022?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Well, it's – I'll take this at a high level, Jeff. Obviously, it's hard to and I wouldn't speculate going out for multiple
years. But what I would say is we're still in the middle of a pandemic. There's still an enormous amount of
stimulus. And there is also – because of the acceleration of digital trends, there are lots of businesses and lots of
CEOs that are rethinking or re-underwriting strategically how they're positioned. So, corporate activity, and
therefore, capital markets activity in that context is high. Certainly, as we head into 2021, there are a lot of
indicators that that's going to continue in 2021, certainly in the near-term. And so, our expectation is certainly in
the near-term, that activity will continue.
To the degree that we get to a more normalized environment, to the degree that there is a backing off of fiscal
activity, to the degree over time there's a more normalization of monetary policy, that obviously can affect this
activity level. But that's not something we'd expect in the near-term in 2021. So, at the moment, pipeline,
backlogs, things that we can see continue to look robust. That doesn't mean that we're saying that we expect a
repeat of everything we saw in 2020, and there certainly are different parts of both the banking and the markets
business that I think were elevated in 2020. And our expectations for 2021 are not as robust as they were in 2020,
but certainly more robust than they were in 2019.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jeffery J. Harte Q
Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Okay. And – thank you. Secondly, as you continue to grow deposits, are you facing limits on your ability to deploy
the incremental deposit growth? I guess when I look at your balance sheet, I see deposit [ph] investable earning
(01:15:49) asset growth is more of a pressing need than additional deposit growth.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. I think that on the forward, you should expect a more moderated level of growth in deposits, as we pull
more and more assets into the bank. I think as I noted in the remarks, we've moved from 15% of assets in the
banks to 25%. But importantly, on incremental asset movement, 90% of the lending that's going on in and around
the firm is being booked in bank entities. That will consume deposit funding that goes on in the bank entities
themselves. I'd also point out that when we speak about bank entities, we're not only speaking about our US
bank, but equally the UK and our bank in Continental Europe in Germany, all of which have slightly different
requirements in terms of the deployment of that funding. But the incremental asset flow is going into the bank, and
you're going to start to see continued growth from 25% of the overall firm.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
22


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Betsy L. Graseck Q
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Hi. Good morning.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Hey, Betsy.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Good morning.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Betsy L. Graseck Q
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Question on the expense side, just a two-part. One, on the comp and the comp ratio, we did see the comp ratio
come down on a full-year basis roughly 400 basis points year-on-year. And I'm just wondering, is that really a
function of non-compensatable revenues that shot up significantly year-on-year or this reflects the comments you
were making earlier about moving people to the strategic locations? It feels like a lot in one year. So, just trying to
unpack the major drivers and how we should expect [ph] that flexes (01:17:48) going forward.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Well, I think the abiding observation here is that there is considerable leverage in the business. That is when we
grow revenue top line by 22% or grow it 17% net of provision for credit loss, you see our comp and benefit line
rise by 8%. So, there's embedded leverage in this business. I think as we've also said in the past, and this is
reflected a little bit in your question, the comp ratio is going to become much less of a relevant metric in this, in
part because the profile of the business will change. That is, as we grow up businesses like transaction banking
or the Consumer business, they will be less comp-heavy in terms of overall expense and that ratio will be
ultimately less relevant. But I think for where we are right now, there's considerable leverage in this, where we're
capable of rewarding our talent for performance overall, but equally doing that on a levered basis, so that our
shareholders and – shareholders benefit more broadly from the overall performance.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Betsy L. Graseck Q
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
And could we just get a sense on the tech budget that you've got right now and how you're thinking about that
size and growth over the next year or so?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. I think the tech budget is going to continue to grow. It'll grow by several hundred million dollars year-over-
year. It will do that really for two reasons. One, continued improvement at the core, that is the way in which the
firm operates more broadly. It is achievement of some of what David was talking about around automation and
the like. And then separately, it will be focused on particular initiatives like transaction banking, like the Consumer
business and so forth.
23


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
And I think part of our focus on the efficiencies that we're capable and the cost savings we're capable of getting is
such that those savings can subsidize the investment being made in places like technology around the firm. And
so, you'll continue to see that investment play out. We have less remedial activity than perhaps some of the other
bigger commercial banks have inasmuch as we have a lot of new tech build and new activity going on. But we're
going to continue to look to harvest cost savings to substantially offset the impact of that increased investment.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Mike Mayo Q
Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Hi. Could you give more color on your backlog? You said it's near-record. It's up big quarter-over-quarter. And
specifically as it relates to SPACs, how much have SPACs contributed to our revenues in 2020 and what's the
multiplier effect? I understand it's linked with mergers and leveraged finance, where you're top three or number
one. Just more color on SPACs and how it relates to backlog and what that's been contributing and how
sustainable that is.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Sure. So, a couple of comments. Backlog levels, as we stated, are up quarter-over-quarter, and I'd say that
activity levels broadly across the banking platform are up. Certainly, SPAC activity is contributing to it, but
strategic corporate M&A is up meaningfully. And what I'd say is there was a real kind of doldrum as the pandemic
hit and people were reorganizing. But as we came out in the summer and people started to kind of look through
the tunnel and get a sense of where things were going, strategic activity with corporates really picked up, and
that's contributed meaningfully also. And that has nothing really to do with the SPAC ecosystem.
On SPACs, Mike, I'll say a couple of things. And there's no question that the growth of SPACs as a product
definitely affected activity levels, but there are a few things that I'd say just to try to frame it. SPACs were a little bit
more than 50% of IPO activity this year. But when you look at IPO activity, IPO activity for us for example was on
a volume basis about 17% of our equity volume. So, we did about $20 billion of IPO league table against $115
billion of equity league table, 17%. If you look at our IPO fees, all IPOs, SPAC and non-SPAC – and again,
SPACs, let's just say around 50%. But if you look at our IPO fees, our IPO fees were less than 40% of all our
equity underwriting fees, and then SPACs would be a subset of that.
Now, to your point, it also creates an ecosystem around capital raising, around advisory services, et cetera. And
so, there's no question that that ecosystem at the moment is creating a tailwind for some of these capital market
activities. There are a couple other things I'd say. First, we generally strive to be number one in the league tables.
We do not strive to be number one in the SPAC league tables. We are very – while we're very active, we're very
thoughtful about our sponsors and the business that we take on. And just looking at last year, if you look at the
number of SPACs that were done and the league table leaders, the number one and number two firms did about
33% more deals than we did, representative I think of some of the things that came to us that we turned away.
So, we're participating, but we're trying to participate by picking what we think are the best situations.
I do think SPACs is a good use case versus a traditional IPO and advantages for sellers and for investors in
looking at this ecosystem. But the ecosystem is not without flaws. I think it's still evolving. I think the incentive
system is still evolving. One of the things we're watching very, very closely is the incentives of the sponsors and
also the incentives of somebody that's selling. And while I think these activity levels continue to be very robust
and if they do continue as we head into 2021 to continue to be very, very robust, I do not think this is sustainable
24


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
in the medium-term. And there'll be something that will in some way, shape or form bring the activity levels down
over a period of time. But we're watching it closely and it's something that our clients continue to be very, very
interested in.
There are lots of companies that go public via SPAC that could also go public in a traditional IPO, and there are
some companies that go public in a SPAC that probably couldn't go public through the standardized process of a
traditional IPO. And all of those are things that the market will have to wrestle with. And one of the things I
certainly think is the case is you have something here that's a good capital markets innovation. But like many
innovations, there's a point in time as they start where they have a tendency maybe to go a little bit too far and
then need to be pulled back or rebalanced in some way. And that's something my guess is we'll see over the
course of 2021 or 2022 with SPACs.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Mike Mayo Q
Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
And then, one more general question, David. So, I think what I hear you say on this call is that it's not a forecast,
but kind of your expectation for capital markets for this year. It might be a little bit less than last year, but it should
still be better than 2019 or something like that. We had a decade-long reduction in wallet share in the markets
business. Do you think that decade-long reduction – considering it normalized last year, do you think that's
reversing? Some people say it is. Some people say it won't.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
So, two points I think, Mike, to the question, if I got it right. With – I'm not going to speculate on a forecast – on a
specific forecast around capital markets activity. But I do think your statement is fair in terms of the way I framed
it, which is capital markets activity is starting 2021 very robust. Based on the data we have, it seems like it will
continue to be relatively robust in 2021. But we don't expect it to be at the same level that it was in 2020. With
respect to your second question, I assume you're asking about Global Markets wallet share or were you asking
about banking and markets wallet share? Mike?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: One moment. Let me open Mike's line.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Mike?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Mike Mayo Q
Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Decade – yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah, trading share over a decade – yeah.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Of Global Markets you're talking about?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Mike Mayo Q
Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Correct.
25


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Okay. So, I talked earlier on the call about the way, over the last 2.5 years, we've evolved our strategy, and I think
the strategy we have for our Global Markets business is a good strategy for Goldman Sachs. I like our position
and we've consolidated share. Why have we done that? We've done that because we have a very client-centric
approach, a very holistic One Goldman Sachs approach. We have a much more targeted wallet share approach
to the largest institutional clients that we interact with in that business, and that has allowed us to strengthen our
position.
And so, I can't go back and make all the direct comparisons that everybody wants, but I think there are a lot of
things – and I stated some of this earlier – that are very different about what we saw coming out of the financial
crisis and what evolved versus where we're operating today. So, the wallet may change, but I think we've made
material strides in strengthening our position in Global Markets, and I expect us to hold a number of those wallet
share gains, and we're very, very focused on making sure we do.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Brennan Hawken Q
Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. So, first is on the investments that you're making on the
Consumer side. We – there's regular speculation in the press around maybe what you might be considering on
the M&A front, and actually, the speculation is centered on Consumer banking. And so, could you help – is the
indication and the idea that you guys are interested in investing in that business and pushing that impacting some
of the targets a sort of a clear indication that you're really interested in building rather than buying? And as I sit
here, I just kind of wonder, okay, why would these guys want to invest so much if they had – if there was
something large that they were looking to do in anything remotely close to the near-term. Just curious, your
thoughts on that, whether that's too big a leap.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Well, there's a lot there in what you said, Brennan, but I'm going to repeat something that I've said over and over
again. We're focused on building an integrated digital platform in the Consumer space. I think over the last four-
plus years, we're off to a very good start. We've given you lots of metrics, so we can track that progress, and we
continue to roll out on the investments that we're making including, as we said, you'll see invest this quarter –
markets invest this quarter and you'll see checking during the course of the year.
With respect to M&A opportunities broadly, whether it's to expand our Consumer offering, whether it's to grow our
Asset Management business, whether it's to expand our Wealth Management capability, we're always looking for
ways to accelerate our strategic growth plans. If something came along that helped us accelerate or advance our
strategic growth plan and we thought that it was a good fit strategically and we thought we could acquire it and
integrate it attractively, then we would do it, just as we did with United Capital. But the bar to do something
significant is extremely high and it's not an easy thing to do. So, we'll continue to look for things that can
accelerate our growth plan, but we're going to continue to invest in these businesses. And I think the important
thing for you to note is that we have a lot of confidence that these can be sizable businesses at scale that are
accretive to Goldman Sachs' returns even if we do not do something significant inorganically.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
26


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Brennan Hawken Q
Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Okay. Thanks for that. And then, my second one is on the efficiencies, and I know there have been a few
questions there. But from my perspective, I guess it's just a little bit hard to unpack and see some of the $650
million that you referenced earlier, Stephen. You guys have a lot of revenue and volume sensitivity on your
expense side, and that's usually particularly true on the comp front. So, maybe how much of the $650 million was
in non-comp versus comp and what is your expectation for the timing on the remaining $650 million? Any color
you can give would be helpful.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, let me answer the question a couple of ways. First of all, a spot observation on non-comp
expense in the year. So, our non-comp was up 8% ex litigation. Of about $900 million of non-comp expense
increase year-over-year, about two-thirds, in excess of $600 million, was variable expense, BC&E, all of which is
related to the volume of activity that's coming through. And so, I just frame that just so you have a sense of how
non-comp framed out over the course of the year.
Now, if you look at our achievement of about half of the $1.3 billion of run-rate efficiencies that we've set as a
target for ourselves, I would say up through the end of 2020, a good proportion of that came out of the
compensation side, okay, relative to non-comp.
So, by that, I mean, we've undertaken a very significant exercise over the course of 2020 at spans and layers;
meaning, we've looked at the sheer number of people we have in a variety of parts of the organization, we've
looked at scope of management, and we've been able to sort of achieve efficiencies in that regard. We engaged
in a front-to-back exercise that put more people from an ops and technology point of view in line of sight of the
people in the business who know and understand what their objectives are and where they're going. Third is
we've looked at location of where many of these people are and have accelerated that. And so, that's on the sort
of compensation side.
On the non-compensation side, I would say that we've done a complete rationalization of campuses in places like
London and in Bangalore, harvesting significant savings there. We've moved to a more disciplined and centralized
planning tool. We've looked to centralize our expense management through SAP, taking multiple platforms and
pulling them into one. All of these have sort of put us in a position to realize about 50% of the $1.3 billion, and
frankly speaking, give us a bit more confidence about what we can achieve on the forward perhaps in excess of it.
And so, that may be a bit more granular than you want, but just to lay out sort of the elements, right, of where
these expenses are being harvested.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Gerard Cassidy Q
Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Thank you. Good morning. David, you've been very clear about the difference in your success in this stress period
versus 2008 and 2009. And we all know the consolidation of the broker-dealer community over the last 25 years
has been dramatic. Can you address your success based on economies of scale and how – I know you've done a
very good job on the customer-centric focus that you talked about already, but how important is economies of
scale today versus maybe 5 or 10 years ago? And is that an advantage that you and some of your peers have
over the smaller broker-dealers?
27


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. So, Gerard, I think it's a good question. I appreciate it, and I think there's a huge advantage. And so, putting
aside some of the things I'm talking about that are strategically based on our conscious decisions, we happen to
be one of a handful of firms that is global, at scale and a market leader in these Global Markets and Investment
Banking businesses. And I think it is increasingly difficult to compete in these businesses unless you're global and
at scale, unless you have the capacity to make very, very significant technology investments into platforms to
better connect with your clients. And so, there has been a consolidation of wallet share into the leading players
across these platforms, and we continue to be one of those players. And I think that position has only grown and
been strengthened.
I also would point out that we don't just have scale broadly. We've stayed committed, as I highlighted earlier in my
remarks, to all the different silos and asset classes across our markets business. So, you think about the many
asset classes across markets, we benefited because we stayed committed to commodities and we have a more
fulsome offering for our clients, and there was a real benefit to that this year. So, I think there's no question the
leading firms have a strong competitive advantage. I think to maintain that competitive advantage and have
reasonable margins given the capital requirements, the technology requirements, the regulatory requirements,
being in a leadership position is much more important today than it was 15, 20, 25 years ago.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Gerard Cassidy Q
Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Very good. And then just quickly, Stephen, on the capital position and when the Federal Reserve releases all the
banks from the limitations on share repurchases based on the income equation they have given you guys, would
you guys consider an accelerated share repurchase program once everybody is released from that limitation?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Well, I think the manner and form of our execution sort of we'll decide and proceed forward. What I would reiterate
is that right now, the Fed is not quite at the SCB regime that had been laid out initially. Remember, SCB was
meant to put banks in a position, all banks, that if you're above your minimum, you can go about share
repurchase, dividend, et cetera. We're not there yet. The Fed has limited what we can do on repurchase. As I
spoke about earlier, we will execute to the capacity that we have to repurchase in the first quarter. I don't think it's
appropriate for me to comment on the mechanism by which we will do it, but certainly safe to rely on the fact that
we'll look to use our capacity and proceed from there.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Brian Kleinhanzl Q
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Yeah. Thanks. Just two questions here. First, maybe just a clarification on the provision that you mentioned from
the credit card relationship, I think there was $200 million attributed to that. I just want to make sure, is that a
gross number or are you saying that the provision expense in the first quarter, the $200 million on a net basis?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
28


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Sure. So, just to be clear, in connection with the back-book that we're requiring relative to the GM partnership, we
anticipate taking approximately $200 million of provisions in the first quarter. So to be clear, it's not reflected in
2020. I'm just giving you and the market sort of an indication of what that will be occasioned by the acquisition of
that back-book, and that's an accounting rule and requirement that we're adhering to.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Brian Kleinhanzl Q
Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Okay. And then, also as it relates to reserve, given what your expectation is for economic conditions from here,
when can you expect to kind of see more reverse releases – or larger I guess reserve releases on a go-forward
basis?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Sure. So, again in the fourth quarter, we're taking provision for credit loss of $293 million. I would tell you that
embedded in that is a release of about $200 million occasioned by better macroeconomic observations and
adjusting the model and reserve release. That release though was offset in the context of incremental provisions,
either occasioned by impairments or growth in the overall portfolio. So, it's not to reflect anything negative or a
negative comment on the state of our performance of the portfolio, but rather growth in it across the whole of the
firm. I would say as an aside, we continue to see our Consumer portfolio perform better from a credit perspective
than even what we had anticipated coming into the crisis. But embedded in the provision is release. That release
offset by growth and by impairments.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Seaport Global. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
James Mitchell Q
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities
Hey. Good morning. You seem to be progressing pretty well towards your targets. But I think whether you look at
consensus expectations or talk to investors, there seems to be some skepticism around you hitting the 14%
ROTE, the 60% efficiency ratio in 2022. I think that reflects some uncertainty around the trajectory of trading and
IB. But maybe we can take a step back and just ask it this way. I guess what kind of growth were you assuming in
those kind of more volatile revenue streams? It doesn't seem like initially it was a lot of growth expected from
2019 levels. But I guess maybe asking the question this way, do you still feel comfortable hitting those targets in
2022 with revenues in sort of trading and Investment Banking similar to 2019 or does it have to be materially
higher?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
So, remember, on the efficiency ratio – and obviously, it's implied by your question – there's a revenue and there's
an expense component to it. On the revenue side, we saw more growth in 2020 than had been anticipated, but
we nonetheless expect levels of growth consistent with what we anticipated at our Investor Day. And I'd also point
out that we continue to work on the expense side, as we've spoken about in relation to a number of questions on
this call. And there continues to be leverage in the business. To the extent that revenue growth doesn't
materialize as we expected, we've got levers to pull on expense, which is why we are comfortable with a view that
we'll achieve an efficiency ratio at or around 60% by 2022. Obviously, we were better than that ex litigation in
2020.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
29


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
James Mitchell Q
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities
Sure.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
There will be variability to it, but there are levers to pull as to the extent that the growth doesn't play. But we're
assuming that it will, and it's not entirely reliant on Global Markets.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
James Mitchell Q
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities
Right. I think the assumption was very minimal growth in sort of those core businesses excluding some of the
investments. Is that fair?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Yeah. I think that's fair.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
David Michael Solomon A
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
I think that's fair.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
James Mitchell Q
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities
All right, great. Thanks.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Your next question is from the line of Jeremy Sigee with Exane BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jeremy Sigee Q
Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Thank you and thanks for the strategy update. You've talked a bit about growth in the previous question and some
of the earlier ones. But growth, I'm thinking of the organic build in some of your new businesses, the transaction
bank and the Consumer businesses. I wondered if you could put those in the context of the evolving environment
that faces us in 2021 with still some areas of stress continuing, but some areas of recovery. Which of those new
businesses do you see accelerating the growth or slowing or changing the game plan of how you proceed?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Well, it's interesting. I think that we should take them each on their own. In transaction banking, I think what we
have hit is a resonating chord with our clients about the nature of what we built, meaning we've built a new and
improved digital interface by which corporations can manage their operational flows. And that has been a
refreshing change to kind of legacy platforms that have been there. I say that not as just simply an observer, but
also a consumer of that service where Goldman Sachs is using its own platform. And I think that will continue in
part because operational flows across corporates will continue almost notwithstanding what plays out in the
context of the market movement overall.
30


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
The Consumer side may be a different proposition. Now, it depends on the perspective you take with respect to
GDP growth and what happens with rates and the like. But I think as David has said, on the Consumer side, we
are playing for the long-term, that is building a relationship with tens of millions of consumers and pivoting in 2021
to a broader, more comprehensive platform that I think will attract more consumers to the platform, not simply
because there's an attractiveness to the deposit rate or to rate on lending, but because we'll offer a more
comprehensive package of investing and checking and we'll become a more reliable primary bank to more
consumers. And I think that will play out, again, kind of notwithstanding where the markets otherwise take us on
some of the more capital markets-intensive activity.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Jeremy Sigee Q
Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
And just a follow-up on a different area, in the Global Markets business, we've talked a lot on the call about the
outlook for volumes and for volatility. But it feels like one of the elements of strength this past year has been wider
bid-offer spreads. I wondered if you could sort of comment, do you agree with that observation that that's been a
contributing factor to the strength and how you see that evolving? Do you think we see a return of pressure on
trading profitability as we go forward?
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr A
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
So, I'm going to go back to a response I made to one of the questions earlier, which is Q2 and Q3 look different
than Q4. We experienced and benefited from wider bid-offer during the intensity of what played out in Q2 and Q3.
And the fact, as David has mentioned now several times, that we stayed the game and showed up across a range
of asset classes helped us and we benefited from that. There's no question that as you moved to the back of the
year in Q4, you saw compression from what was wide in Q2 and Q3. But there again wallet share gains benefited
us and equally playing to both high touch and low touch. And so, the advent of what we were doing through
Marquee and equally through portfolio trading on these electronic platforms was of equal benefit. So, tighter bid-
offer there as opposed to wider bid-offer in Q2. But I think you're seeing a business that is more diverse, broader
and in a position to continue to intermediate flows and do so with very high balance sheet velocity.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: At this time, there are no further questions. Please continue with any closing remarks.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stephen M. Scherr
Chief Financial Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
So, since there are no more questions, we'd like to take a moment to thank everybody for joining the call on
behalf of the senior management team. We look forward to speaking with many of you in the coming weeks and
months. And if there are any additional questions that arise in the meantime, please don't hesitate to reach out to
Heather and her team. Otherwise, please stay safe and we look forward to speaking with you on our first quarter
call in April. Thank you.
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude The Goldman Sachs fourth quarter 2020 earnings
conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
31


The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(GS) Corrected Transcript
Q4 2020 Earnings Call 19-Jan-2021
Disclaimer
The information herein is based on sources we believe to be reliable but is not guaranteed by us and does not purport to be a complete or error-free statement or summary of the available data.
As such, we do not warrant, endorse or guarantee the completeness, accuracy, integrity, or timeliness of the information. You must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of any
information provided hereunder, including any reliance on the accuracy, completeness, safety or usefulness of such information. This information is not intended to be used as the primary basis
of investment decisions. It should not be construed as advice designed to meet the particular investment needs of any investor. This report is published solely for information purposes, and is
not to be construed as financial or other advice or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any state where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal. Any
information expressed herein on this date is subject to change without notice. Any opinions or assertions contained in this information do not represent the opinions or beliefs of FactSet
CallStreet, LLC. FactSet CallStreet, LLC, or one or more of its employees, including the writer of this report, may have a position in any of the securities discussed herein.
THE INFORMATION PROVIDED TO YOU HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FactSet CallStreet, LLC AND ITS LICENSORS,
BUSINESS ASSOCIATES AND SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SAME, EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW, NEITHER FACTSET CALLSTREET, LLC NOR ITS OFFICERS, MEMBERS, DIRECTORS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, BUSINESS ASSOCIATES, LICENSORS OR SUPPLIERS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS OR REVENUES, GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE,
SECURITY BREACHES, VIRUSES, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES OR COMMERCIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES IS ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, ARISING UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN OR ANY OTHER SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF.
The contents and appearance of this report are Copyrighted FactSet CallStreet, LLC 2021 CallStreet and FactSet CallStreet, LLC are trademarks and service marks of FactSet CallStreet, LLC. All
other trademarks mentioned are trademarks of their respective companies. All rights reserved.
32