 Item 1. Business 

Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, &#8220;Bank of America,&#8221; &#8220;the Corporation,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation&#8217;s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation&#8217;s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. 

Bank of America is one of the world&#8217;s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Bank of America&#8217;s website is www.bankofamerica.com, and the Investor Relations portion of our website is https://investor.bankofamerica.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely post and make accessible financial and other information, including environmental, social and governance (ESG) information, regarding the Corporation on our website. Investors should monitor our website, including the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph, or otherwise in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available on the Investor Relations portion of our website: (i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board). Our Code of Conduct constitutes a &#8220;code of ethics&#8221; and a &#8220;code of business conduct and ethics&#8221; that applies to the required 

individuals associated with the Corporation for purposes of the respective rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. We also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Segments 

Through our various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth &#38; Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking and Global Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 37 through 46 of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&#38;A) and Note 23 &#8211; Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies, including merchant banks and companies providing nonbank financial services. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product-specific basis. We are increasingly competing with firms offering products solely over the internet and with non-financial companies, including firms utilizing emerging technologies, such as digital assets, rather than, or in addition to, traditional banking products. 

Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service and convenience, the pricing, quality and range of products and services offered, lending limits, the quality and delivery of our technology and our reputation, experience and relationships in relevant markets. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and develop, retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. 

##TABLE_START Bank of America 2 

##TABLE_END

Human Capital Resources 

We strive to make Bank of America a great place to work for our employees. We value our employees and seek to establish and maintain human resource policies that are consistent with our core values and help to realize the power of our people. Our Board and its Compensation and Human Capital Committee provide oversight of our human capital management strategies, programs and practices. The Corporation&#8217;s senior management provides regular briefings on human capital matters to the Board and its Committees to facilitate the Board&#8217;s oversight. 

At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Corporation employed approximately 217,000 and 208,000 employees, of which 79 percent and 80 percent were located in the U.S. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Additionally, in 2022 and 2021, the Corporation&#8217;s compensation and benefits expense was $36.4 billion and $36.1 billion, or 59 percent and 61 percent, of total noninterest expense. 

Diversity and Inclusion 

The Corporation&#8217;s commitment to diversity and inclusion starts at the top with oversight from our Board and CEO. The Corporation&#8217;s senior management sets the diversity and inclusion goals, and the Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief Diversity &#38; Inclusion Officer partner with our CEO and senior management to drive our diversity and inclusion strategy, programs, initiatives and policies. The Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, which consists of senior executives from every line of business and region, is chaired by our CEO and has been in place for over 20 years. The Council sponsors and supports business, operating unit and regional diversity and inclusion councils to align with enterprise diversity strategies and goals. 

Our practices and policies have resulted in strong representation across the Corporation where our broad employee population mirrors the clients and communities we serve. We have a Board and senior management team that are 53 percent and 55 percent racially, ethnically and gender diverse. The following table presents diversity metrics for our global employees who self-identified as women and our U.S.-based employees who self-identified as people of color, including those who self-identified as Asian, Black/African American and Hispanic/Latino. These workforce diversity metrics are reported regularly to the senior management team and to the Board. 

##TABLE_START Diversity Metrics as of December 31, 2022 Total Employees Top Three Management Levels Managers at All Levels Global employees Women 50 % 42 % 42 % U.S.-based employees People of color 50 26 42 Asian 14 11 14 Black/African American 14 8 10 Hispanic/Latino 19 6 16 ##TABLE_END

We invest in our talent by offering a range of development programs and resources that allow employees to develop and progress in their careers. We reinforce our commitment to diversity and inclusion by investing internally in our employee networks and by facilitating enterprise-wide learning and conversations about various diversity and inclusion topics and issues. Further, we partner with various external organizations, which focus on advancing diverse talent. We also have practices in place for attracting and retaining diverse talent, including campus recruitment. For example, in 2022, 44 percent of our global campus hires were women and, in the U.S., 59 percent were people of color. 

Employee Engagement and Talent Retention 

As part of our ongoing efforts to make the Corporation a great place to work, we have conducted a confidential annual Employee Engagement Survey (Survey) for nearly two decades. The Survey results are reviewed by the Board and senior management and used to assist in reviewing the Corporation&#8217;s human capital strategies, programs and practices. In 2022, 85 percent of the Corporation&#8217;s employees participated in the Survey, and our Employee Engagement Index, an overall measure of employee satisfaction with the Corporation, was 85 percent. Our turnover among employees was 13 percent in 2022 and 12 percent in 2021. 

Additionally, the Corporation provides a variety of resources to help employees grow in their current roles and build new skills, including resources to help employees find new opportunities, re-skill and seek leadership positions. The learning and development strategy is grounded in the development of horizontal skills delivered throughout the organization. Senior leaders, managers and teammates are onboarded and build horizontal skills, as well as role-specific skills, to help drive high performance. This approach also helps facilitate internal mobility and promotion of talent to build a bench of qualified managers and leaders. In 2022, more than 30,000 employees found new roles within the Corporation, and we delivered more than 11 million hours of training and development to our teammates through Bank of America Academy. Additionally, our Board oversees CEO and senior management succession planning, which is formally reviewed at least annually. 

##TABLE_START 

3 Bank of America 

##TABLE_END

Fair and Equitable Compensation 

The Corporation is committed to racial and gender pay equity by striving to compensate all of our employees fairly and equitably. We maintain robust policies and practices that reinforce our commitment, including reviews conducted by a third-party consultant with oversight from our Board and senior management. In 2022, our review covered our regional hubs (U.S., U.K., France, Ireland, Hong Kong and Singapore) and India and showed that compensation received by women, on average, was greater than 99 percent of that received by men in comparable positions. In the U.S., compensation received by people of color was, on average, greater than 99 percent of that received by teammates who are not people of color in comparable positions. 

We also strive to pay our employees fairly based on market rates for their roles, experience and how they perform. We regularly benchmark against other companies both within and outside our industry to help confirm our pay is competitive. In 2021, the Corporation announced it would increase its minimum hourly wage for U.S. employees to $25 per hour by 2025. In June 2022, as a next step, the Corporation increased its hourly minimum wage for U.S. employees to $22 per hour. In addition, in January 2023, for the sixth year since 2017, we announced that we recognized our teammates with Sharing Success compensation awards for their efforts during 2022. Approximately 96 percent of employees globally will receive an award in the first quarter of 2023. 

Health and Wellness &#8211; 2022 Focus 

The Corporation is also committed to supporting employees&#8217; physical, emotional and financial wellness by offering flexible and competitive benefits, including comprehensive health and insurance benefits and wellness resources. During 2022, we continued efforts to support our employees through the ongoing health crisis resulting from Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). We provided no-cost COVID-19 testing and teammates with incentives for getting the vaccine and booster. We also held on-site flu and COVID-19 vaccine and booster clinics. 

We continued our efforts around providing affordable access to healthcare, including offering no-cost, 24/7 access to virtual general medical and behavioral health resources to help our enrolled U.S. teammates stay healthy, both physically and emotionally. We kept U.S. health insurance premiums unchanged for teammates earning less than $50,000 for the tenth year in a row, and had nominal premium increases for teammates earning from $50,000 up to $100,000 for the sixth year in a row. We provided in-network generic prescription medications at no cost for teammates enrolled in a U.S. bank medical PPO or Consumer Direct plan, along with continuing preventative care medications at no cost for all U.S. medical plans. 

We offer an extensive benefit package and support work-life balance for our teammates, which includes in the U.S., 16 weeks of paid parental leave for both primary and secondary 

caregivers and backup dependent care (50 days of child and adult backup care per year). We doubled the number of no-cost confidential counseling sessions from six to 12 for all employees and family members and now offer 12 globally. 

For more information about our human capital management, see the Corporation&#8217;s website and 2022 Annual Report to shareholders that will be available on the Investor Relations portion of our website in March 2023 (the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K). 

Government Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. 

We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. 

As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHCs&#8217; and national banks&#8217; risk governance frameworks. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, we are subject to a significant number of laws, rules and regulations that govern our businesses in the U.S. and in the other jurisdictions in which we operate, including permissible activities, minimum levels of capital and liquidity, compliance risk management, consumer products and sales practices, anti-money laundering and anti-corruption, government sanctions, privacy, data protection and executive compensation, among others. 

##TABLE_START Bank of America 4 

##TABLE_END

The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the 2008 financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision. 

We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our entities, management and ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our futures commission merchant subsidiaries supporting commodities and derivatives businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), National Futures Association, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services entities in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorit&#233; de Contr&#244;le Prudentiel et de R&#233;solution and Autorit&#233; des March&#233;s Financiers, respectively. 

Source of Strength 

Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC&#8217;s loss, subject to certain exceptions. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. 

banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving their nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Deposit Insurance 

Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC&#8217;s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank for each account ownership category. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. 

The FDIC is required to maintain a statutory minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. of at least 1.35 percent and has established a long-term goal of a two percent DIF ratio. As of the date of this report, the DIF is below the statutory minimum ratio and the FDIC&#8217;s long-term goal. In October 2022, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan that includes an increase in deposit insurance assessments across the industry of two basis points (bps). The FDIC has indicated that it intends to maintain such assessment rates for the foreseeable future. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Regulatory, Compliance and Legal on page 17. 

Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements 

As a financial holding company, we and our bank subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory capital and liquidity rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and the FDIC. These rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact amendments to these rules. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to satisfy these regulatory rules and to support our business activities. These continually evolving rules are likely to influence our planning processes and may require additional regulatory capital and liquidity, as well as impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. 

For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see Capital Management on page 49, and Note 16 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 

Distributions 

We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). 

##TABLE_START 

5 Bank of America 

##TABLE_END

Our ability to pay dividends and make common stock repurchases depends in part on our ability to maintain regulatory capital levels above minimum requirements plus buffers and non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. To the extent that the Federal Reserve increases our stress capital buffer (SCB), global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge or countercyclical capital buffer, our returns of capital to shareholders, including dividends and common stock repurchases, could decrease. As part of its CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts stress testing on parts of our business using hypothetical economic scenarios prepared by the Federal Reserve. Those scenarios may affect our CCAR stress test results, which may impact the level of our SCB. For example, based on the results of our 2022 CCAR stress test, the Corporation&#8217;s SCB increased to 3.4 percent, and the Corporation&#8217;s G-SIB surcharge is expected to increase to 3.0 percent on January 1, 2024. Additionally, the Federal Reserve could impose limitations or prohibitions on taking capital actions such as paying or increasing dividends or repurchasing common stock. For example, as a result of the economic uncertainty resulting from the pandemic, in the second half of 2020, the Federal Reserve introduced certain limitations to capital distributions for all large banks, including the Corporation, which were removed effective July 1, 2021. 

If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. Additionally, the applicable federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. 

For more information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see Note 13 &#8211; Shareholders&#8217; Equity and Note 16 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. The rights of the Corporation, our shareholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries are further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. 

Resolution Planning 

As a BHC with greater than $250 billion of assets, the Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to periodically submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. 

Such resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of the BHC, including the continued operations or solvent wind down of its material entities, pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance. 

If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the BHC&#8217;s plan is not credible, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. A summary of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites. 

The FDIC also requires the submission of a resolution plan for Bank of America, National Association, which must describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is available on the FDIC&#8217;s website. 

We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our resolvability, which includes continued improvements to our preparedness capabilities to implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and operational standpoint. 

Across international jurisdictions, resolution planning is the responsibility of national resolution authorities (RA). Among those, the jurisdictions with the greatest impact to the Corporation&#8217;s subsidiaries are the U.K., Ireland and France, where rules have been issued requiring the submission of significant information about locally incorporated subsidiaries as well as the Corporation&#8217;s banking branches located in those jurisdictions that are deemed to be material for resolution planning purposes. As a result of the RA's review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years that could increase operating costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. 

For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Liquidity on page 9. 

Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors&#8217; consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC&#8217;s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt. 

Under the FDIC&#8217;s &#8220;single point of entry&#8221; strategy for resolving SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC. 

Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires that BHCs maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution. 

For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Liquidity on page 9. 

##TABLE_START Bank of America 6 

##TABLE_END

Limitations on Acquisitions 

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June 30, 2022, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. 

In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June 30, 2022, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. 

The Volcker Rule 

The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities&#8217; investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 

Derivatives 

Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. These operations are subject to regulation under the Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, analogous U.K. regulatory regimes and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisdictions that regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which we operate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; enforcing existing or imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; imposing position limits on certain derivatives; and imposing derivatives trading transparency requirements. These regulations are already in effect in many markets in which we operate. 

In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K., and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations to address concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution of G-SIBs, and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow suit. In addition, the EU has implemented EU-wide resolution stay requirements. Generally, these resolution stay regulations require amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under 

various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise of cross-default rights based on an affiliate&#8217;s entry into insolvency proceedings. Resolution regulations may also require contractual recognition by the counterparty that amounts owed may be written down or converted into equity as part of a bail in. As resolution stay regulations of a particular jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend impacted financial contracts in compliance with such regulations either as a regulated entity or as a counterparty facing a regulated entity in such jurisdiction. 

Consumer Regulations 

Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP), Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC. 

Privacy and Information Security 

We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and protection of the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to periodically disclose Bank of America&#8217;s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties, under certain circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws also require us to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to provide the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. Security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. 

Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or contact customers with marketing offers and establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their personal information. For example, California&#8217;s Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), as modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), provides consumers with the right to know what personal data is being collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data, among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection Directive and related implementing national laws in its member states. The CCPA's, CPRA's and GDPR&#8217;s impact on the Corporation was assessed and addressed through comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad, as well as court proceedings and changing guidance from regulatory bodies with respect to the validity of cross-border data transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty to privacy compliance globally. 

##TABLE_START 

7 Bank of America 

##TABLE_END

