 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The disclosures set forth in this item are qualified by Item 1A. Risk Factors and the section captioned &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that Could Affect Future Results&#8221; included in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report, and other cautionary statements set forth elsewhere in this report. 

Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates and prices, such as equity prices. The risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows, and future earnings. Due to the nature of our operations, we are primarily exposed to interest rate risk and, to a lesser extent, liquidity risk. 

Interest rate risk on our balance sheets consists of reprice, option, and basis risks. Reprice risk results from differences in the maturity, or repricing, of asset and liability portfolios. Option risk arises from &#8220;embedded options&#8221; present in many financial instruments such as loan prepayment options, deposit early withdrawal options and interest rate options. These options allow customers opportunities to benefit when market interest rates change, which typically results in higher costs or lower revenue for us. Basis risk refers to the potential for changes in the underlying relationship between market rates and indices, which subsequently result in a narrowing of the profit spread on an earning asset or liability. Basis risk is also present in administered rate liabilities, such as savings accounts, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, and money market accounts where historical pricing relationships to market rates may change due to the level or directional change in market interest rates. 

We seek to avoid fluctuations in our net interest margin and to maximize net interest income within acceptable levels of risk through periods of changing interest rates. Accordingly, our interest rate sensitivity and liquidity are monitored on an ongoing basis by our Asset and Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;), which oversees market risk management and establishes risk measures, limits and policy guidelines for managing the amount of interest rate risk and its effect on net interest income and capital. A variety of measures are used to provide for a comprehensive view of the magnitude of interest rate risk, the distribution of risk, the level of risk over time and the exposure to changes in certain interest rate relationships. 

We utilize an earnings simulation model as the primary quantitative tool in measuring the amount of interest rate risk associated with changing market rates. The model quantifies the effects of various interest rate scenarios on projected net interest income and net income over the next 12 months. The model measures the impact on net interest income relative to a flat-rate case scenario of hypothetical fluctuations in interest rates over the next 12 months. These simulations incorporate assumptions regarding balance sheet growth and mix, pricing and the repricing and maturity characteristics of the existing and projected balance sheet. The impact of interest rate derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, caps and floors, is also included in the model. Other interest rate-related risks such as prepayment, basis and option risk are also considered. 

ALCO continuously monitors and manages the balance between interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities. The objective is to manage the impact of fluctuating market rates on net interest income within acceptable levels. In order to meet this objective, management may lengthen or shorten the duration of assets or liabilities or enter into derivative contracts to mitigate potential market risk. 

For modeling purposes, as of December 31, 2021, the model simulations projected that 100 and 200 basis point ratable increases in interest rates would result in positive variances in net interest income of 2.8% and 7.1%, respectively, relative to the flat-rate case over the next 12 months, while a 25 basis point ratable decrease in interest rates would result in a negative variance in net interest income of 3.0% relative to the flat-rate case over the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2020, the model simulations projected that 100 and 200 basis point ratable increases in interest rates would result in positive variances in net interest income of 2.3% and 6.2%, respectively, relative to the flat-rate case over the next 12 months, while a 25 basis point ratable decrease in interest rates would result in a negative variance in net interest income of 1.8% relative to the flat-rate case over the next 12 months. Both the December 31, 2021 and 2020 model simulations for increased interest rates were impacted by the assumption, for modeling purposes, that we will begin to pay interest on commercial demand deposits (those not already receiving an earnings credit rate) in the first quarters of 2022 and 2021, respectively, as further discussed below. The likelihood of a decrease in interest rates beyond 25 basis points as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 was considered to be remote given prevailing interest rate levels. 

Table of Conten t s 

The model simulations as of December 31, 2021 indicate that our projected balance sheet is more asset sensitive in comparison to our balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. The increased asset sensitivity was primarily due to an increase in the relative proportion of interest-bearing deposits (primarily amounts held by us in an interest-bearing account at the Federal Reserve) to projected average interest-earning assets. Such interest-bearing deposits are more immediately impacted by changes in interest rates in comparison to our other categories of earning assets. 

We do not currently pay interest on a significant portion of our commercial demand deposits. Any interest rate that would ultimately be paid on these commercial demand deposits would likely depend upon a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our modeling simulations as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 assume a slightly aggressive pricing structure with regards to interest payments on commercial demand deposits (those not already receiving an earnings credit) with interest payments assumed to begin in the first quarters of 2022 and 2021, respectively. This pricing structure on commercial demand deposits assumes a deposit pricing beta of 25%. The pricing beta is a measure of how much deposit rates reprice, up or down, given a defined change in market rates. 

As of December 31, 2021, the effects of a 200 basis point increase and a 25 basis point decrease in interest rates on our derivative holdings would not result in a significant variance in our net interest income. 

The effects of hypothetical fluctuations in interest rates on our securities classified as &#8220;trading&#8221; under ASC Topic 320, &#8220;Investments - Debt and Equity Securities&#8221; are not significant, and, as such, separate quantitative disclosure is not presented. 

Table of Conten t s 

