Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to Raymond James Financial, Inc. and the table of contents maintained:

```
raymond_james_financial,_inc_2024_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LIVE MARKETS-Investors should focus on fundamentals amidst election noise - Raymond James...................... 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FOCUS-Florida-based fund managers ride out Hurricane Milton and remain committed to the state ................... 47
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 64 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LIVEMARKETS-Investorsshouldfocusonfundamentalsamidstelectionnoise-RaymondJames
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LIVE MARKETS-Investors should focus on fundamentals amidst election noise - Raymond James
                                                                                  
          525 words                                                               
          4 November 2024                                                         
          06:14 PM GMT                                                            
          Reuters News                                                            
          LBA                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.                    
          *                                                                       
          Dow down ~0.5%, S&P 500 slips, Nasdaq now ~flat                         
          *                                                                       
          Utilities weakest S&P sector; Energy leads gainers                      
                                                                                  
          *                                                                       
          Dollar edges lower; gold edges up; bitcoin off ~2%; crude up ~3%        
                                                                                  
          *                                                                       
          U.S. 10-Year Treasury yield falls to ~4.32%                             
                                                                                  
          Welcome to the home for real-time coverage of markets brought to you by Reuters reporters. You can share
          your thoughts with us at                                                
          INVESTORS SHOULD FOCUS ON FUNDAMENTALS AMIDST ELECTION NOISE - RAYMOND JAMES
                                                                                  
          Investors should be focused on market fundamentals, particularly strong corporate earnings growth and
          recent economic data that support the Federal Reserve's soft landing narrative, regardless of the outcome of
          the U.S. election, said Raymond James Chief Market Strategist Matt Orton.
          Americans will be heading to the polls in droves on Tuesday to choose between former President Donald
          Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris in addition to deciding the composition of the next U.S. congress.
          With the outcome of the contest to close to call, investors have largely remained jittery as demonstrated by
          elevated volatility across asset classes, including bonds and equities. 
                                                                                  
          Nevertheless, the S&P 500 is still on track to post the third best election year performance since 1928 and the
          17th best year over the same period, with November seasonality helping to support further market gains,
          Orton said in an investor note.                                         
          That is because of a continued favorable macroeconomic environment and a broadening out in strong
          corporate earnings across a wide range of sectors beyond mega-cap technology and artificial intelligence
          companies.                                                              
          "In addition to the wide breadth of earnings beats, it's worth noting that the magnitude of the beats so far has
          been higher than usual, once the exceptional losses of Boeing have been stripped out," Orton said.
          Thus, investors should expect to see volatility compress across asset classes once markets handle the
          election results, regardless of its outcome. Cyclical stocks will also likely see more upside buoyed by
          supportive earnings and the positive macroeconomic backdrop, Orton said.
                                                                                  
          While remaining overweight U.S. equities, investors can diversify their portfolios with international stocks
          including India and European financials. Finally, rather than trying to pick winners based on the election
          outcome, Orton recommended sticking with bipartisan investment themes including defense companies and
          infrastructure related equities, especially those linked with the build out of A.I, and sectors tied to bringing
          supply chains back to the U.S.                                          
          (Chibuike Oguh)                                                         
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 64 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FOCUS-Florida-basedfundmanagersrideoutHurricaneMiltonandremaincommittedtothestate
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FOCUS-Florida-based fund managers ride out Hurricane Milton and remain committed to the state
                                                                                  
          997 words                                                               
          10 October 2024                                                         
          11:34 AM GMT                                                            
          Reuters News                                                            
          LBA                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.                    
          *                                                                       
          Florida's financial community committed to Florida, defying hurricanes  
          *                                                                       
          Fund managers weigh lower taxes against insurance costs and rebuilding  
                                                                                  
          *                                                                       
          Concerns rise over hiring and insurance costs in hurricane-prone Florida
                                                                                  
          (Updates with details of Milton making landfall)                        
          By Suzanne McGee and Svea Herbst-Bayliss                                
                                                                                  
          Oct 9 (Reuters) - Florida's sun and low taxes enticed many hedge funds and other financial professionals to
          move south. Now another massive hurricane is putting that love affair to the test, but many big-name
          managers are committed to remaining in "Wall Street South" for the foreseeable future.
          Hurricane Milton made landfall on Florida's west coast on Wednesday as a Category 3 hurricane. By early
          Thursday, it had dropped to a Category 1, with heavy rains and damaging storm surges, as it reached the
          state's Atlantic Coast.                                                 
          The state has lured investors for years but its attractiveness only increased during the pandemic. Billionaire
          Carl Icahn uprooted his firm from New York to an office near Miami in 2020. Paul Singer's Elliott Investment
          Management followed later that year with an announcement that it was opening a West Palm Beach office.
          And Ken Griffin's Citadel said in 2022 that it was moving to Miami from Chicago.
                                                                                  
          "We took the plunge with our eyes wide open," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at $52 billion
          Chicago-based Cresset Asset Management, about his move to Palm Beach on Florida's east coast in 2015,
          ahead of the hurricane making landfall. His principal residence will stay in Palm Beach even though he
          planned to ride out this storm from his other home in the Blue Ridge Mountains of South Carolina.
          For many other fund managers, the tradeoff between lower taxes and a favorable business climate versus the
          specter of insurance payments and the cost of rebuilding potentially annihilated real estate, still works in favor
          of Florida, according to people familiar with their thinking.           
          The big hedge funds that moved to Florida remain committed to maintaining their operations there, those
          people said on Wednesday. Similarly, other executives who moved their personal residences to the South
          during the pandemic while continuing to telecommute for firms based in the Northeast have every intention of
          staying put, according to two sources familiar with their thinking.     
          Other Wall Street financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, have built up staff in
          Florida both to serve customers who moved and to accommodate employees eager to work from the South.
                                                                                  
          CONTINGENCY PLANNING                                                    
          Many of the firms that moved - including Citadel, Elliott and Icahn - are based on or near Florida's east coast
          where easy flights to New York and other locations were a draw, as was Miami's bustling nightlife and vibrant
          arts scene. That has put them some 300 miles (483 km) east of where Milton made landfall and wreak the
          most serious damage after                                               
                                                                                  
          Page 47 of 64 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Hurricane Helene swept through late last month.                         
          Still, they are working on contingency plans.                           
                                                                                  
          "If the need to evacuate were to arise in Miami, we have robust contingency plans for our employees, their
          loved ones and our businesses," said a Citadel spokesman. But the firm's commitment to Florida, where
          founder Griffin was born, is clear. The company plans to build a 54-story tower as its new headquarters in
          Brickell, the buzzing Miami neighborhood that has become the heart of "Wall Street South."
          A handful of financial industry firms, however, are based in the immediate path of Milton.
          One founder of an $8 billion fund on Florida's west coast flew in to the state to keep an eye on both his firm
          and his home, planned to ride out the storm on a high floor of his office building, people familiar with his
          thinking said.                                                          
          Another firm in the path was Raymond James Financial , founded and still based in St. Petersburg. The
          62-year-old brokerage and investment advisory firm evacuated staff from its head office on Tuesday.
                                                                                  
          The firm is maintaining service and support at back-up facilities and a spokesman declined to provide
          additional comment to its communications on social media.               
          Blue Ocean Technologies ATS, a Florida-based financial technology company operating an overnight
          trading system for U.S. securities, has its executive offices just north of Miami in West Palm Beach, and had
          a backup plan.                                                          
          "I've been living here for 10 years, and the hurricanes have missed me for 10 years," said Brian Hyndman,
          president and CEO of Blue Ocean. The firm's trading system, its trade-matching engine, is based in New
          Jersey. "We can work remotely from home, and we've got backup and support on both the east and west
          coasts of the United States."                                           
          LONGER-TERM IMPACT?                                                     
                                                                                  
          Two sources familiar with executive recruiting in Florida told Reuters they are concerned that experienced
          staff may become more reluctant to shoulder the growing expense and risk of living in a hurricane zone, and
          that hiring may become more costly or difficult.                        
          Average homeowner premiums in Florida rose 57% between 2019 and 2023 according to data from Benjamin
          Keys of the University of Pennsylvania and Philip Mulder of the University of Wisconsin, a steeper rise than
          anywhere else in the nation. Average insurance costs were $4,060 last year, according to Keys.
                                                                                  
          Mel Montagne, president of FIRM, a nonprofit that lobbies for fairer insurance rates for Floridians, and who
          also sells commercial insurance, said clients have been getting nervous and wracked with buyer's remorse.
          "They are looking around and saying, 'what the hell is this?'" said Montagne, whose clients include finance
          industry executives who migrated to Florida during COVID.               
                                                                                  
          "They are looking to sell to get the hell out of Dodge."                
          (Reporting by Suzanne McGee and Svea Herbst-Bayliss in New York; additional reporting by Michelle Conlin
          in New York and Andy Sullivan in Washington; editing by Megan Davies and Matthew Lewis)
                                                                                  
          Released: 2024-10-10T12:34:28.000Z                                      
          Document LBA0000020241010ekaa01phy                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 48 of 64 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
```