 Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

The section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a discussion of the many risks and uncertainties we face, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity). The information presented below provides an update to, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and other information contained in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as presented below, there have been no material changes to these risk factors. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers, and the full extent of the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public-health crisis that has resulted in widespread volatility and deteriorations in business, economic, and market conditions and household incomes, including in the states of New Jersey, New York, Florida and Alabama where we conduct nearly all of our business. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our capital and liquidity, and on our business, results of operations, financial position and prospects generally will depend on a number of evolving factors, including: 

The duration, extent, and severity of the pandemic . COVID-19 has not yet been contained and could affect significantly more households and businesses. The duration and severity of the pandemic, including the potential 

for a seasonal or other resurgence after the initial containment, continue to be impossible to predict. Following any containment, there is also substantial uncertainty surrounding the pace of economic recovery and the return of business and consumer confidence. 

The response of governmental and nongovernmental authorities . Many of their actions have been directed toward curtailing household and business activity to contain COVID-19 while simultaneously deploying fiscal- and monetary-policy measures to partially mitigate the adverse effects on individual households and businesses. These actions are not always coordinated or consistent across jurisdictions but, in general, have rapidly expanded in scope and intensity, contributing to substantial market volatility. 

The effect on our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers. COVID-19 and its associated consequences and uncertainties, including increased unemployment rates, are affecting individuals, households, and businesses differently and unevenly. Many, however, have already changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to sharply restrain commercial and social interactions and discretionary spending. As a result, in the near term, our credit, operational, and other risks have generally increased and, for the foreseeable future, are expected to remain elevated or increase further. 

The effect on economies and markets . Whether the actions of governmental and nongovernmental authorities will be successful in mitigating the adverse effects of COVID-19 is unclear. National, regional, and local economies (including the local economies in the markets areas which we serve) and markets could suffer disruptions that are lasting. Governmental actions are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment and financial-market activity, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

During the first quarter of 2020, the most notable impacts to our results of operations were a higher provision expense for credit losses, which we expect to continue. Our provision expense was $34.7 million for the first quarter of 2020 as compared to $8.0 million for the first quarter of 2019 and $5.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2019. With the spread of COVID-19 in the United States having only begun to accelerate in March 2020, our forecast of macroeconomic conditions and operating results, including expected lifetime credit losses on our loan portfolio, is subject to meaningful uncertainty. 

Governments have taken unprecedented steps to partially mitigate the adverse effects of their containment measures. For example, on March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted to inject more than $2 trillion of financial assistance into the U.S. economy. The FRB has taken decisive and sweeping actions as well. Since March 15, 2020, these have included a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 0.25 percent, a program to purchase an indeterminate amount of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, and numerous facilities to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. 

The degree to which our actions and those of governments and others will directly or indirectly assist our customers, counterparties, and third-party service providers and advance our business and the economy generally is not yet clear. For example, while our short-term loan modifications granted to certain customers impacted by COVID-19 may better position them to resume their regular payments to us in the future and enhance our brand and customer loyalty, these modifications may negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations at least in the near term, may produce a higher degree of requests for extensions and rewrites than we have anticipated, and may not be as successful as we expect in managing our credit risk. In addition, while the FRB&#8217;s accommodative monetary policy may benefit us to some degree by supporting economic activity among our customers, this policy and sudden shifts in it may inhibit our ability to grow or sustain net interest income and effectively manage interest rate risk. 

In order to safeguard the health and wellness of our customers and employees, and to comply with applicable government directives, we have modified our business practices, including temporarily closure of certain offices, restricting employee travel and directing employees to work from home whenever possible, temporary closure of some branches and, in branches that remain open, offering only restricted drive-up service or lobby service by appointment, and have implemented our business continuity plans to the extent necessary. These measures, and further actions we may take as required by government authorities or that we otherwise determine are in the best interests of our customers and employees, could increase certain risks, including cybersecurity risks, impair our ability to perform critical functions and adversely impact our results of operations. 

We are unable to estimate the near-term and ultimate impacts of COVID-19 on our business and operations at this time. The pandemic could cause us to experience higher credit losses in our lending portfolio, additional increases in our allowance for credit losses, impairment of our goodwill and other financial assets, diminished access to capital markets and other funding sources, further reduced demand for our products and services, and other negative impacts on our financial position, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, sustained adverse effects may impair our capital and liquidity positions, require us to take capital actions, prevent us from satisfying our minimum regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory requirements, result in downgrades in our credit ratings, and the reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend in future periods. 

As a participating lender in the SBA Paycheck Protection Program, we are subject to additional risks of litigation from our customers or other parties regarding our processing of loans for the PPP and risks that the SBA may not fund some or all PPP loan guaranties, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects. 

The CARES Act included a $349 billion loan program administered through the SBA referred to as the PPP. Under the PPP, small businesses and other entities and individuals can apply for loans from existing SBA lenders and other approved regulated lenders that enroll in the program, subject to numerous limitations and eligibility criteria. We are participating as a lender in the PPP. The PPP opened on April 3, 2020; however, because of the short timeframe between the passing of the CARES Act and the opening of the PPP, there is some ambiguity in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. On or about April 16, 2020, the SBA notified lenders that the $349 billion earmarked for the PPP was exhausted. Congress has approved additional funding for the PPP and President Trump signed the new legislation on April 24, 2020. Since the opening of the PPP, several other larger banks have been subject to litigation regarding the process and procedures that such banks used in processing applications for the PPP. We may be exposed to the risk of litigation, from both clients and non-clients that approached us regarding PPP loans, regarding our process and procedures used in processing applications for the PPP. If any such litigation is filed against us and is not resolved in a manner favorable to us, it may result in significant financial liability or adversely affect our reputation. In addition, litigation can be costly, regardless of outcome. Any financial liability, litigation costs or reputational damage caused by PPP-related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 

We may have a credit risk on PPP loans if a determination is made by the SBA that there is a deficiency in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded, or serviced by us, such as an issue with the eligibility of a borrower to receive a PPP loan, which may or may not be related to the ambiguity in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP. In the event of a loss resulting from a default on a PPP loan and a determination by the SBA that there was a deficiency in the manner in which the PPP loan was originated, funded, or serviced by us, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already paid under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from us, which could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 

