 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a discussion of the many risks and uncertainties we face, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity). The information presented below provides an update to, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and other information contained in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as presented below, there have been no material changes to these risk factors. 

We anticipate that the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to adversely affect us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers. The full extent and duration of the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects are currently unknown and could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public-health crisis that has resulted in widespread volatility and deterioration in business, economic, and market conditions and household incomes, including in the states of New Jersey, New York, Florida and Alabama where we conduct nearly all of our business. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our capital and liquidity, and on our business, results of operations, financial position and prospects generally will depend on a number of evolving factors, including: 

The duration, extent, and severity of the pandemic . COVID-19 has not yet been contained and could affect significantly more households and businesses. The duration and severity of the pandemic, including the degree of resurgence in the upcoming late fall and winter months and the timing of any vaccine, continue to be impossible to predict. There remains substantial uncertainty surrounding the pace of economic recovery and the return of business and consumer confidence. 

The response of governmental and nongovernmental authorities . Many of their actions have been directed toward curtailing household and business activity to contain COVID-19 while simultaneously deploying fiscal- and monetary-policy measures to partially mitigate the adverse effects on individual households and businesses. These actions are not always coordinated or consistent across jurisdictions but, in general, have rapidly expanded in scope and intensity, contributing to substantial market volatility. We cannot predict whether and to what extent governmental and nongovernmental authorities will continue to implement policy measures to assist us and our customers and the failure to do so could have adverse effects on our business. 

The effect on our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers. COVID-19 and its associated consequences and uncertainties, including increased unemployment rates, are affecting individuals, households, and businesses differently and unevenly and we anticipate will continue to do so. Many, however, have already changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to sharply restrain commercial and social interactions and discretionary spending. As a result, our credit, operational, and other risks have generally increased and, for the foreseeable future, are expected to remain elevated or increase further. 

The effect on economies and markets . Whether the actions of governmental and nongovernmental authorities will be successful in mitigating the adverse effects of COVID-19 in the future is unclear. National, regional, and local economies (including the local economies in the markets areas which we serve) and markets could suffer disruptions that are lasting. Governmental actions are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment and financial-market activity, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We can provide no assurance that governmental or nongovernmental mitigation efforts will continue or be effective in the future. 

During the first nine months of 2020, the most notable impacts to our results of operations were a higher provision expense for credit losses, which we expect to continue. Our provision expense was $106.1 million for the first nine months of 2020 as compared to $18.8 million for the same period in 2019. With recent increases in COVID-19 infection rates in our market areas, our forecast of macroeconomic conditions and operating results, including expected lifetime credit losses on our loan portfolio, remains subject to meaningful uncertainty. 

Governments have taken unprecedented steps to partially mitigate the adverse effects of their containment measures. For example, on March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted to inject more than $2 trillion of financial assistance into the U.S. economy. The FRB has taken decisive and sweeping actions as well. Since March 15, 2020, these have included a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 0.25 percent, a program to purchase an indeterminate amount of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, and numerous facilities to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. 

While there is evidence that our actions and those of governments and others have assisted our customers, counterparties, and third-party service providers and advanced our business and the economy generally it is uncertain how much, if at all, these actions will be effective in the future. For example, while our short-term loan modifications granted to certain customers impacted by COVID-19 may better position them to resume their regular payments to us in the future and enhance our brand and customer loyalty, these modifications have and may continue to negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations, may produce a higher degree of requests for extensions and rewrites than we have anticipated, and may not be as successful as we expect in managing our credit risk. In addition, while the FRB&#8217;s monetary policy may benefit us to some degree by supporting economic activity among our customers, this policy and sudden shifts in it may inhibit our ability to grow or sustain net interest income and effectively manage interest rate risk. 

In order to safeguard the health and wellness of our customers and employees, and to comply with applicable government directives, we have modified our business practices, including temporarily closure of certain offices, restricting employee travel and directing employees to work from home whenever possible, temporary closure of some branches and, in branches that remain open, offering only restricted drive-up service or lobby service by 

appointment, and have implemented our business continuity plans to the extent necessary. These measures, and further actions we may take as required by government authorities or that we otherwise determine are in the best interests of our customers and employees, could increase certain risks, including cybersecurity risks, impair our ability to perform critical functions and adversely impact our results of operations. 

We are unable to estimate the near-term and ultimate impacts of COVID-19 on our business and operations at this time. The pandemic could cause us to experience higher credit losses in our lending portfolio, additional increases in our allowance for credit losses, impairment of our goodwill and other financial assets, diminished access to capital markets and other funding sources, further reduced demand for our products and services, and other negative impacts on our financial position, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, sustained adverse effects may impair our capital and liquidity positions, require us to take capital actions, prevent us from satisfying our minimum regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory requirements, result in downgrades in our credit ratings, and the reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend in future periods. 

As a participating lender in the SBA Paycheck Protection Program, we are subject to additional risks of litigation from our customers or other parties regarding our processing of loans for the PPP and risks that the SBA may not fund some or all PPP loan guaranties, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects. 

The CARES Act included a $349 billion loan program administered through the SBA referred to as the PPP. Under the PPP, small businesses and other entities and individuals can apply for loans from existing SBA lenders and other approved regulated lenders that enroll in the program, subject to numerous limitations and eligibility criteria. On April 16, 2020, the SBA notified lenders that the original $349.0 billion of funding under the PPP was exhausted, and on April 24, 2020, Congress allocated an additional $310.0 billion to the program. We participated as a lender in both rounds of the PPP. Due to the short timeframe between the passing of the CARES Act and the opening of the PPP, there was and continues to be some ambiguity in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. Since the opening of the PPP banks have been subject to class action litigation regarding the process and procedures that such banks used in processing applications for the PPP and their refusal to pay agent fees. Class action litigation has been filed against us, along with many other banks claiming the banks are obligated to pay agent fees. If these cases are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, it may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect our reputation. In addition, litigation can be costly, regardless of outcome. Any financial liability, litigation costs or reputational damage caused by PPP-related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 

We may have a credit risk on PPP loans if a determination is made by the SBA that there is a deficiency in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded, or serviced by us, such as an issue with the eligibility of a borrower to receive a PPP loan, which may or may not be related to the ambiguity in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP. In the event of a loss resulting from a default on a PPP loan and a determination by the SBA that there was a deficiency in the manner in which the PPP loan was originated, funded, or serviced by us, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already paid under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from us, which could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 

We may be required to consult with the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) before declaring cash dividends on our common stock, which ultimately may delay, reduce, or eliminate such dividends and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such cash dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. We may reduce or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future depending upon our results of operations, financial condition or other metrics which could be adversely impacted by the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which remains unknown. 

In July 2020, the FRB updated its supervisory guidance to provide greater clarity regarding the situations in which bank holding companies, like Valley, may expect an expedited consultation in connection with the declaration of 

dividends that exceed quarterly earnings. To qualify, amongst other criteria, total commercial real estate loan concentrations cannot represent 300 percent or more of total capital and the outstanding balance of the commercial real estate loan portfolio cannot increase by 50 percent or more during the prior 36 months. Currently, we believe that Valley does not meet this standard for expedited consultation and approval of its dividend, should it be required, due to strong organic and acquired commercial real estate loan growth over the past three years. As a result, Valley could be subject to a lengthier and possibly more burdensome review process by the FRB when considering paying dividends that exceed quarterly earnings. The delay, reduction or elimination of our quarterly dividend could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. See additional information regarding our quarterly cash dividend and the current rate of earnings retention at the "Capital Adequacy" section of the MD&#38;A. 

We recently implemented new deposit services for businesses in the cannabis industry which could expose us to additional liabilities and regulatory compliance costs. 

We recently implemented specialized deposit services intended for a limited number of state licensed medical-use (only) cannabis customers. Currently, we provide this new service to one customer; although we anticipate expanding this service to other customers in the future. Medical-use cannabis businesses are legal in numerous states and the District of Columbia, including our primary markets of New Jersey, New York, and Florida. However, such businesses are not legal at the federal level and cannabis remains a Schedule I drug under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. In 2014, the U.S. Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) published guidelines for financial institutions servicing state legal cannabis businesses. We have implemented a comprehensive control framework that includes written policies and procedures related to the on-boarding of such businesses and the monitoring and maintenance of such business accounts that comports with the FinCEN guidance. Additionally, our policies call for due diligence review of the cannabis business before the business is on-boarded, including confirmation that the business is properly licensed and maintains the license in good standing in the applicable state. Throughout the relationship, our policies call for continued monitoring of the business, including site visits, to determine if the business continues to meet our requirements, including maintenance of required licenses and calls for undertaking periodic financial reviews of the business. The Bank&#8217;s program is limited to depository products and deposit transactions are monitored for compliance with the applicable state medical program rules and other regulations before approval and acceptance by the Bank&#8217;s BSA/AML department. 

While we believe our policies and procedures will allow us to operate in compliance with the FinCEN guidelines, there can be no assurance that compliance with the FinCEN guidelines will protect us from federal prosecution or other regulatory sanctions. Federal prosecutors have significant discretion and there can be no assurance that the federal prosecutors will not choose to strictly enforce the federal laws governing cannabis. Any change in the federal government&#8217;s enforcement position, could potentially subject us to criminal prosecution and other regulatory sanctions. While we also believe our BSA/AML policies and programs for this new business are sufficient, the medical marijuana business is considered high-risk, thus increasing the risk of a regulatory action against our BSA/AML program that has adverse consequences, including but not limited to, preventing us from undertaking mergers, acquisitions and other expansion activities. 

