                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Pneumatic Tubes Are Hot Banking Tech --- Customers jam drive-through lanes again.......................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PneumaticTubesAreHotBankingTech---Customersjamdrive-throughlanesagain   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Pneumatic Tubes Are Hot Banking Tech --- Customers jam drive-through lanes again
          By Orla McCaffrey                                                       
          939 words                                                               
          7 July 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Corrections & Amplifications                                            
          The name of Javier Rodriguez Soler, chief executive of BBVA USA, was misspelled as Javier Rodriguez
          Solar in a Page One article Tuesday about bank drive-through lanes.     
          (WSJ July 9, 2020)                                                      
                                                                                  
          (END)                                                                   
          Even Brody, a Labrador retriever, is a new fan of the customer drive-through at the local Fifth Third Bancorp
          branch just north of Cincinnati.                                        
          After the bank closed its lobbies during the pandemic, Brody's owner, Julie Phillippi-Whitney, switched to the
          drive-through lane for her public-relations business, putting checks into cylinders that travel via pneumatic
          tube from the driver's side of her car to a teller inside.              
                                                                                  
          The cylinders return with dog treats. "He thinks the drive-through at Fifth Third is a giant Milk-Bone
          dispensary," said Ms. Phillippi-Whitney, who kept to her car-lane habit even after the bank reopened branch
          lobbies in June.                                                        
          Long before ATMs and online banking, drive-through lanes were a popular customer convenience by the
          1950s. The digital age threatened survival of the mechanical systems, built on 19th-century technology, but
          Covid-19 has started to reverse their declining fortunes. Banks are reopening decommissioned and unused
          lanes. Some are installing new ones.                                    
          The increased traffic has strained operations, prompting a wave of calls to Jay Hamvas, a 51-year-old service
          specialist in Asheville, N.C.                                           
          Mr. Hamvas has been reconnecting closed-down pneumatic systems and repairing ones still in operation. As
          more bank customers pull up to the drive-through, getting the lanes up and running has become a priority.
          Since the pandemic, he said, the job is "to really try and fix it the first time because banks are so busy."
                                                                                  
          Motors powering the air that pushes containers back and forth can die unexpectedly. Cylinders ferrying cash,
          checks or IDs can get stuck in the tubes that connect teller and customer. Some are run over by careless
          drivers who drop them.                                                  
          Mr. Hamvas works for Convergint Technologies, which services many of the largest U.S. banks. Calls to
          service drive-through equipment jumped 42% in April and May compared with the average of the previous 12
          months, the company said. Cylinder sales are up 300% over the same period.
          Tiffany Ross, a manager for Fifth Third, estimated that her Cincinnati branch went through 15 such containers
          in 2 1/2 months in the spring, a surprising number. While waiting for replacements, one of the branch's private
          bankers took busted containers home to glue back together.              
                                                                                  
          The systems were once common at big newspapers, connecting copydesks to composing rooms, where
          articles were laid out on pages. On Wall Street, tubes used to deliver tickets from trading desks to the floor of
          the New York Stock Exchange.                                            
          Hospitals still use pneumatic tubes to move samples to and from laboratories. Some manufacturers transport
          parts by tube across sprawling factories. Cannabis sellers are using the systems where drive-through sales
          are legal, according to Hamilton Security, which manufactures such equipment.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banks, though, have been closing their drive-through lanes for at least a decade, said Andrew Hovet, director
          at Novantas, a financial-services research firm.                        
          Like much of the U.S. economy, that started to change in March, when banks began curbing branch service
          to limit the risk of the new coronavirus spreading to customers and employees. Banks temporarily closed
          some locations and required appointments at others.                     
          BBVA USA closed most of its lobbies, even to appointments. The bank, though, has expanded the range of
          transactions in the drive-through, including opening an account, Chief Executive Officer Javier Rodriguez
          Solar said.                                                             
          U.S. Bancorp, the country's largest regional bank, expanded drive-through service at about a quarter of its
          branches in the Portland, Ore., area after closing its lobbies in March. The bank put unused lanes back into
          the rotation and moved tellers from branch lobbies to drive-through duty.
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Inc. reactivated about 30 drive-up teller windows after city and state authorities started telling
          people to stay home. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Fifth Third also have added
          drive-through capacity.                                                 
          Mrs. Ross, of Fifth Third in Cincinnati, said closing the bank lobby was tough on customers who prefer to do
          business with a teller. "We have 50 regulars that just come in every day and chat with us," she said.
          Mr. Hovet, of the financial-services firm Novantas, said, "There is still this segment of branch-centric
          customers who want to go to a teller. And the only one available is at the drive-through."
                                                                                  
          Skye Hirsch, who prefers the gender-neutral pronoun they, is one of the customers accustomed to walking
          into bank branches and conducting transactions in person. Like many customers, they switched to the
          drive-through, which at least has a person at the other end of the tube.
          They learned the pneumatic systems don't guard against every mishap.    
          In May, the customer was in line for 40 minutes at the drive-through of a Michigan credit union when the car
          started to die.                                                         
                                                                                  
          "I just sat there until eventually all of my car's functions started to turn off," they said.
          A man in a pickup truck offered to jump-start the black Saturn Outlook XR, but Skye Hirsch didn't think the
          problem was a dead battery.                                             
          With the Saturn immobile, they called a tow truck and had their grandmother drive them back later that day to
          cash their $1,200 stimulus check.                                       
                                                                                  
          "I spent half the stimulus check on a new alternator," they said.       
          Document J000000020200707eg770001o                                      
                                                                                  
          