                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investing In Funds & ETFs: A Quarterly Analysis --- Winners' Circle: And the No. 1 Stock-Fund Manager Is... --- A
          Morgan Stanley manager... ...................................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvestingInFunds&ETFs:AQuarterlyAnalysis---Winners'Circle:AndtheNo.1Stock-FundManagerIs...---AMorganStanleymanager...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investing In Funds & ETFs: A Quarterly Analysis --- Winners' Circle: And the No. 1 Stock-Fund
          Manager Is... --- A Morgan Stanley manager posts a 56.2% gain for the 12 months
          By Suzanne McGee                                                        
          1,310 words                                                             
          6 July 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          After enduring the most volatile market swings in the U.S. stock market in more than three-quarters of a
          century, even the best-performing mutual-fund managers might be forgiven for wanting to socially distance
          themselves from anything to do with stocks.                             
          But some have thrived. While the spring's selloff, followed by an almost eerily rapid and dramatic rebound,
          may have driven some investors into hiding, the active professional managers with the best performances
          over the past 12 months are riding out the storm. They have stuck with their strategies over the long term.
          "We go through periods where we look stupid compared to a lot of other people, or to the market," says No. 1
          manager Dennis Lynch, head of the Counterpoint Global team at Morgan Stanley Investment Management
          and manager of Morgan Stanley Institutional Discovery Portfolio (MPEGX). He's looking smart now: The fund
          won our latest Winners' Circle contest with a 12-month total return of 56.2%.
          For the year to date through June 30, the fund was up 59.3%.            
          The quarterly Winners' Circle review is based on the trailing 12-month performance of actively managed
          U.S.-stock funds (those with at least $50 million in assets, a three-year record and that don't employ leverage
          or rely on quantitative screens to select their holdings). Index funds don't qualify, as this review measures
          stock-picking prowess.                                                  
          The long-term focus helped Mr. Lynch and his colleagues identify early some of those businesses that have
          held up during selloffs, or even profited during the pandemic, like videoconferencing app Zoom Video
          Communications Inc. Certainly, a combination of skill and luck led to Morgan Stanley growth-stock funds
          capturing three spots out of the top five in this quarter's collection of winning managers.
          The Winners' Circle list was dominated by growth funds -- which focus on companies that promise rapidly
          increasing profits and revenue -- run by Morgan Stanley and by Zevenbergen Capital. (As always, the
          Winners' Circle funds aren't investment recommendations, despite their short-term returns. Some funds are
          reserved for institutional investors, requiring high minimum investments.)
          "Our strategy has been to collect a portfolio of unique companies that have a strong competitive position and
          offer big growth opportunities over the long term. We don't try to make any shorter-term predictions," says Mr.
          Lynch.                                                                  
          The strong performance of his Discovery fund, as well as Morgan Stanley Insight (CPODX) and Morgan
          Stanley Institutional Growth (MSEQX) -- which ranked No. 3 and No. 5, with returns of 49.0% and 46.3% -- is
          the result, Mr. Lynch says, of winnowing through broad indexes in quest of outsize long-term potential. In an
          environment like this, Mr. Lynch argues that selloffs and rallies grab headlines but don't capture an investor's
          real opportunities and risks.                                           
          "Limited pockets have done very well, some things have not recovered and others have been decimated," he
          notes.                                                                  
          Both Mr. Lynch and the management team at Zevenbergen are repeat winners and/or runners-up in this
          quarterly contest, but never before has the list of top-performing funds been dominated by only two fund
          families. The institutional class of Zevenbergen Growth Fund (ZVNIX) ranked second in terms of its 12-month
          return, posting a gain of 53.3% for that period and 52.5% for 2020 so far. In fourth place was Virtus
          Zevenbergen Innovative Growth Fund (SAGAX), which rewarded investors with a 48.8% return for the 12
          months, and is ahead 48.7% for the year so far.                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Other funds run by the two teams at Morgan Stanley and Zevenbergen also made the list of the 10 best
          performers, based on data from Morningstar: In all, seven of these top 10 actively managed funds were run
          by the same two growth-investing teams.                                 
          One of the holdings that has made both management teams' winners for this period is Zoom. "The pandemic
          and the economic shutdown didn't form part of our investment thesis," says Anthony Zackery, one of the
          portfolio managers who oversees the Zevenbergen funds. But, he adds, the economic shutdown that has
          accompanied the spread of Covid-19 has benefited many of the team's top investment ideas, as consumers
          and businesses reinvent how they interact and live their lives.         
          "Even before this happened, the vast majority of the companies and themes we've been investing in are tied
          to digital transformation," says Joe Dennison, another member of Zevenbergen's management team.
          "Many of our companies are experiencing growing adoption rates in the midst of this, and that has benefited
          the portfolio."                                                         
          Mr. Lynch began accumulating a stake in Zoom when it went public last year and added to his funds' holdings
          in the final months of 2019. "We thought it had interesting qualities even before all this happened," says Mr.
          Lynch. "It's hard to call anyone a winner at a time like this, but [Zoom's] CEO and founder has done some
          pretty incredible things and been impressive in how he has reacted to some of" the firm's problems and
          growing pains. Specifically, Mr. Lynch points to Zoom's rapid moves to address security by recruiting
          experienced top talent in that area.                                    
          Both investment-management teams emphasize the long-term nature of their strategies. "People spend too
          much time talking about tactics and timing; about when they are buying versus what they are buying," says
          Mr. Lynch.                                                              
          Other holdings in Mr. Lynch's funds that he believes will reward his investors in both the short and longer term
          include music-streaming service Spotify Technology SA and Twilio Inc., which enables consumers to
          communicate more effectively with newer businesses like ride-sharing and food/merchandise delivery
          companies. Mr. Lynch says that while Twilio stock lagged behind the market at the height of the pandemic
          selloff, its fundamentals remain strong and it has had a pickup in usage by new clients including health-care
          providers. "We could have overreacted and sold it," Mr. Lynch says. Instead, he focused on that long-term
          potential to expand its reach and market share.                         
          Mr. Dennison's emphasis on the longer term mirrors Mr. Lynch's. "We want to own shares in those
          companies that will demonstrate the best growth over the next three to five years," Mr. Dennison says. That
          means being prepared to ride out volatile periods in the markets. "Opportunities are rarely linear" in nature,
          he says.                                                                
          In the Zevenbergen funds that own large and midcap stocks, the team has accumulated stakes in businesses
          like Trade Desk Inc., which specializes in online-advertising technology, and Teladoc Health Inc. The funds
          have owned both stocks for some time, and both are seeing greater growth potential in the pandemic
          economy as streaming television becomes more common and telemedicine has established itself.
          In Zevenbergen Genea Fund (ZVGIX), which ranked No. 7 in this quarter's competition with a 44.5%
          12-month return, the managers invest in earlier-stage businesses, many of which are also thriving as
          consumers direct more of their purchases toward small online merchants. The fund's holdings include Etsy,
          which has had a surge in transactions as bricks-and-mortar retailers have closed.
          "We're not trying to make any short-term predictions about where we go from here," says Mr. Lynch. In this
          environment, as in any other, "You have to be willing to be different and often be willing to look like a fool,
          over shorter time periods. You can never have the mind-set that you've won the game."
          ---                                                                     
          Ms. McGee is a writer in New England. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com.
          Document J000000020200706eg7600002                                      
                                                                                  
          