OVERVIEW The Corporation is a diversified, publicly-owned financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Corporation has operations in Puerto Rico, the United States (“U.S.”) mainland, and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands. In Puerto Rico, the Corporation provides retail, mortgage, and commercial banking services through its principal banking subsidiary, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico (“BPPR”), as well as investment banking, broker-dealer, auto and equipment leasing and financing, and insurance services through specialized subsidiaries. In the U.S. mainland, the Corporation provides retail, mortgage, commercial banking services, as well as equipment leasing and financing, through its New Yorkchartered banking subsidiary, Popular Bank (“PB” or “Popular U.S.”) which has branches located in New York, New Jersey and Florida. Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements presents information about the Corporation’s business segments. YEAR 2022 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Acquisition of Key Customer Channels and Amendments to Commercial Contracts with Evertec On July 1, 2022, BPPR completed the announced acquisition of certain assets from Evertec Group, LLC (“Evertec Group”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Evertec, Inc. (“Evertec”) (NYSE: EVTC), to service certain BPPR channels (the “Business Acquisition Transaction”). As a result of the closing of the Business Acquisition Transaction, BPPR acquired from Evertec Group certain critical channels, including BPPR’s retail and business digital banking and commercial cash management applications. In connection with the Business Acquisition Transaction, BPPR also entered into amended and restated service agreements with Evertec Group pursuant to which Evertec Group will continue to provide various information technology and transaction processing services to Popular, BPPR and their respective subsidiaries. Under the amended service agreements, Evertec Group no longer has exclusive rights to provide certain of Popular’s technology services. The amended service agreements include discounted pricing and lowered caps on contractual pricing escalators tied to the Consumer Price Index. As part of the transaction, BPPR and Evertec also entered into a revenue sharing structure for BPPR in connection with its merchant acquiring relationship with Evertec. Under the terms of the amended and restated Master Service Agreement (“MSA”), Evertec will be entitled to receive monthly payments from the Corporation to the extent that Evertec’s revenues, covered under the MSA, fall below certain agreed annualized minimum amounts. As consideration for the Business Acquisition Transaction, BPPR delivered to Evertec Group 4,589,169 shares of Evertec common stock valued at closing at $169.2 million (based on Evertec’s stock price on June 30, 2022 of $36.88). A total of $144.8 million of the consideration for the transaction was attributed to the acquisition of the critical channels of which $28.7 million were attributed to software intangible assets and $116.1 million were attributed to goodwill. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. The remaining $24.2 million was attributed to the renegotiation of the MSA with Evertec and was recorded as an expense. The Corporation also recorded a credit of $6.9 million in Evertec billings under the MSA during the third quarter of 2022 as a result of the Business Acquisition Transaction, resulting in a net expense charge for the quarter of $17.3 million. On August 15, 2022, the Corporation completed the sale of its remaining 7,065,634 shares of common stock of Evertec (the “Evertec Stock Sale”, and collectively with the Business Acquisition Transaction, the “Evertec Transactions”). 4 POPULAR, INC. 2022 ANNUAL REPORT Following the Evertec Stock Sale, Popular no longer owns any Evertec common stock. The impact of the gain on the sale of Evertec shares used as consideration for the Business Acquisition Transaction in exchange for the acquired applications on July 1, 2022 and the net expense associated with the renegotiation of the MSA resulted in an after-tax gain of $97.9 million, while the Evertec Stock Sale and the related accounting adjustments resulted in an after-tax gain of $128.8 million, recorded during the third quarter of 2022, for an aggregate after-tax gain of $226.6 million. Transformation Initiative: Leveraging the completion of the Evertec Transactions, the Corporation embarked on a broad-based multi-year, technological and business process transformation during the second half of 2022. The needs and expectations of our clients, as well as the competitive landscape, have evolved, requiring us to make important investments in our technological infrastructure and adopt more agile practices. Our technology and business transformation will be a significant priority for the company over the next three years and beyond. Through December 31, 2022, excluding compensation costs of our employees involved in the initiative, we expensed $24 million toward this effort, primarily in professional fees and technology related expenses. As part of this transformation, we aim to expand our digital capabilities, modernize our technology platform, and implement agile and efficient business processes across the entire company. In 2023, we plan an expense of approximately $50 million toward this effort, excluding employee compensation and capitalized costs. We expect the expenses tied to this transformation initiative, which will continue through 2025 to result in an enhanced digital experience for our clients, as well as better technology and more efficient processes for our employees. We expect this effort to contribute to better efficiency and higher earnings, resulting in a targeted sustainable return on tangible common equity of 14% by the end of 2025. To facilitate the transparency of the progress with these efforts, effective in the fourth quarter of 2022, the Corporation has separated technology, professional fees and transactional activities as standalone expense categories in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations. Refer to additional information in the Operating expenses section of this MD&A. Capital Actions On July 12, 2022, the Corporation completed an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) program for the repurchase of $400 million of Popular’s common stock for which an initial delivery of 3,483,942 shares were delivered in March 2022 (the “March ASR Agreement”). Upon the final settlement of the March ASR Agreement, the Corporation received an additional 1,582,922 shares of common stock. The Corporation repurchased a total of 5,066,864 shares at an average purchase price of $78.9443, which were recorded as treasury stock by $440 million under the March ASR Agreement. On December 7, 2022, the Corporation completed the settlement of another ASR agreement (the “August ASR Agreement”) for the repurchase of $231 million of Popular’s common stock, for which an initial 2,339,241 shares were delivered on August 26, 2022. Upon the final settlement of the August ASR Agreement, the Corporation received an additional 840,024 shares of common stock. The Corporation repurchased a total of 3,179,265 shares at an average purchase price of $72.66, which were recorded as treasury stock by $245 million under the August ASR Agreement. Hurricanes Fiona and Ian On September 18, 2022, Hurricane Fiona made landfall in the southwest area of Puerto Rico as a Category 1 hurricane, bringing record rainfall and flooding throughout the island and affecting communities where BPPR does business. Hurricane Fiona’s rain and winds caused a complete blackout on the island and caused considerable damage to certain sectors in the southwest region. President Biden issued a disaster declaration for the island. While the impact to BPPR’s operation was not material, certain customers, highly concentrated in certain municipalities, were impacted by the disaster. As part of hurricane relief efforts on the island, the Corporation waived late-payment fees on individual lending products from September 16 through October 31, 2022. Popular also waived, through September 30, withdrawal fees payable by our customers at ATMs outside of the Popular network and fees payable by customers of other banking institutions at Popular’s ATMs. In addition, the Corporation offered to clients impacted by the hurricane a moratorium of up to three monthly payments, up to December 31, 2022, on personal and commercial credit cards, auto loans, leases and personal loans, subject to certain eligibility requirements. Mortgage clients may also benefit from different payment relief alternatives available, depending on their type of loan. Loan relief options for commercial clients are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Separately, on September 28, 2022, Hurricane Ian made a landfall on the west coast of central Florida as a Category 4 hurricane, causing extensive floods and destruction in the impacted areas in Florida. President Biden made a major disaster declaration for certain counties in central Florida. PB and BPPR do not have significant operations in the area but have some limited retail and commercial clients who reside or have business activities in the impacted areas. For clients impacted by the hurricane that reside in counties in Florida declared as disaster zones by President Biden, Popular offered a moratorium for up to three payments, up to January 31, 2023, subject to certain eligibility requirements. As in the case of Puerto Rico, relief options for commercial clients are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. POPULAR, INC. 2022 ANNUAL REPORT 5 Refer to the Credit Risk section of this MD&A for additional information of the loan moratorium offered to clients. Transfer of Securities from Available-for Sale to Held-To-Maturity In October 2022, the Corporation transferred U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value of $6.5 billion (par value of $7.4 billion) from its available-for-sale portfolio to its held-to-maturity portfolio. Management changed its intent, given its ability to hold these securities to maturity due to the Corporation’s liquidity position and its intention to reduce the impact on accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) and tangible capital of further increases in interest rates. The securities were reclassified at fair value at the time of the transfer. At the date of the transfer, these securities had pre-tax unrealized losses of $873.0 million recorded in AOCI. This fair value discount is being accreted to interest income and the unrealized loss remaining in AOCI is being amortized, offsetting each other through the remaining life of the securities. There were no realized gains or losses recorded as a result of this transfer. While changes in the amount of unrealized gains and losses in AOCI have an impact on the Corporation’s and its whollyowned banking subsidiaries’ tangible capital ratios, they do not impact regulatory capital ratios, in accordance with the regulatory framework. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements which presents information about the Corporation’s Debt Securities Held-to-Maturity for additional details Partial Release of the Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Corporation recorded a partial reversal of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance of the U.S. operations of $68.2 million. As of December 31, 2022, the deferred tax asset (“DTA”) for the U.S. operations, mainly related to net operating losses (“NOLs”), was valued at $278 million, net of the corresponding valuation allowance of $402 million. The reversal during the fourth quarter was determined based on management’s expectation of the realization of additional amounts of federal and state NOLs over their remaining carryover period. The determination was based on the U.S. operations’ sustained profitability during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, together with evidence of stable credit metrics and the length of the expiration of the net operating losses. As of December 31, 2022, the Corporation had approximately $525 million in DTA related to federal NOLs with expiration dates between 2028 and 2033 and approximately $135 million in DTA related to state NOLs with expiration dates between 2030 and 2036.Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis Net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis, is presented with its different components in Table 3 for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared with the same period in 2021, segregated by major categories of interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The interest earning assets include investment securities and loans that are exempt from income tax, principally in Puerto Rico. The main sources of tax-exempt interest income are certain investments in obligations of the U.S. Government, its agencies and sponsored entities, and certain obligations of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its agencies and assets held by the Corporation’s international banking entities. To facilitate POPULAR, INC. 2022 ANNUAL REPORT 7 the comparison of all interest related to these assets, the interest income has been converted to a taxable equivalent basis, using the applicable statutory income tax rates for each period. The taxable equivalent computation considers the interest expense and other related expense disallowances required by the Puerto Rico tax law. Under Puerto Rico tax law, the exempt interest can be deducted up to the amount of taxable income. Net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis, is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this presentation provides meaningful information since it facilitates the comparison of revenues arising from taxable and exempt sources. Net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis, as used by the Corporation may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2022 The Corporation’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2022 amounted to $1.1 billion, compared to a net income of $934.9 million for 2021. The discussion that follows provides highlights of the Corporation’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the results of operations of 2021. It also provides some highlights with respect to the Corporation’s financial condition, credit quality, capital and liquidity. Table 2 presents a three-year summary of the components of net income as a percentage of average total assets. For a discussion of our 2021 results of operations compared with 2020, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021.Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $2.2 billion, an increase of $209.8 million when compared to 2021. The increase in net interest income was mainly driven by higher interest income from money market investments due to higher interest rates, higher income from investment securities and higher interest income from commercial and consumer loans due to higher volumes and yields. The net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 was 3.11% compared to 2.88% for the same period in 2021, driven by higher average volume of earning assets and higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve increased the Federal Funds Rate during 2022. On a taxable equivalent basis, net interest margin was 3.46% in 2022, compared to 3.19% in 2021. Refer to the Net Interest Income section of this MD&A for additional information. The Corporation’s total provision for credit losses reflected an expense of $83.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to a reserve release of $193.5 million for 2021. The expense for the year 2022 was mostly driven by changes in the economic scenario, higher loan volumes and changes in credit quality. The Corporation continued to exhibit favorable credit quality trends with low levels of net charge-offs and decreasing non-performing loans. Non-performing assets totaled $528.6 million at December 31, 2022, reflecting a decrease of $104.4 million when compared to December 31, 2021. Refer to the Provision for Credit Losses and Credit Risk sections of this MD&A for information on the allowance for credit losses, non-performing assets, troubled debt restructurings, net charge-offs and credit quality metrics. Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2022 amounted to $897.1 million, an increase of $254.9 million, when compared with 2021, mostly due to: the $257.7 million gain related to the Evertec Transactions and related accounting adjustments and higher service fees due to higher credit card fees and merchant network business fees as a result of the revenue sharing agreement entered into in connection with the Evertec Transactions. Refer to the Non-Interest Income section of this MD&A for additional information on the major variances of the different categories of non-interest income. Total operating expenses amounted to $1.7 billion for the year 2022, reflecting an increase of $197.1 million, when compared to the same period in 2021, mainly due to higher personnel costs reflecting salary increases and a higher headcount, professional fees, technology and software expenses, 8 POPULAR, INC. 2022 ANNUAL REPORT reflecting the impact of the investment in the transformation initiative, higher business promotions expense driven by customer loyalty programs and a $17.3 million expense associated with the Evertec Transactions. Refer to the Operating Expenses section of this MD&A for additional information. Income tax expense amounted to $132.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with an income tax expense of $309.0 million for the previous year. The decrease in income tax expense for the year is mainly due to the impact of the partial reversal of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance of the U.S. Operations and, higher taxable income that was exempt or subject to preferential tax rates. Refer to the Income Taxes section in this MD&A and Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes. At December 31, 2022, the Corporation’s total assets were $67.6 billion, compared with $75.1 billion at December 31, 2021. The decrease of $7.5 billion is mainly driven by lower money market investments due to a decrease in deposits mainly in the Puerto Rico public sector, partially offset by an increase in loans held-in-portfolio mainly in the commercial and consumer portfolios. Refer to the Statement of Financial Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for additional information. Deposits amounted to $61.2 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $67.0 billion at December 31, 2021. Table 8 presents a breakdown of deposits by major categories. The decrease in deposits was mainly due to lower Puerto Rico public sector deposits. The Corporation’s borrowings amounted to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021. Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on the Corporation’s borrowings. Refer to Table 7 in the Statement of Financial Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for the percentage allocation of the composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets. Stockholders’ equity amounted to $4.1 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $6.0 billion at December 31, 2021. The decrease was principally due to higher accumulated unrealized losses on debt securities available-for-sale and the impact of two accelerated share repurchase transactions completed during 2022, declared dividends, partially offset by net income for the year. The Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to be well-capitalized at December 31, 2022. The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at December 31, 2022 was 16.39%, compared to 17.42% at December 31, 2021. For further discussion of operating results, financial condition and business risks refer to the narrative and tables included herein. The shares of the Corporation’s common stock are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol BPOP.