 Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Cautionary Notice about Forward-Looking Statements and Other Terms 

From time to time we have made, and in the future will make, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;pursue,&#8221; &#8220;seek,&#8221; &#8220;continue,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;project,&#8221; &#8220;outlook,&#8221; &#8220;forecast,&#8221; &#8220;potential,&#8221; &#8220;target,&#8221; &#8220;objective,&#8221; &#8220;trend,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;goal,&#8221; &#8220;initiative,&#8221; &#8220;priorities,&#8221; or other words of comparable meaning or future-tense or conditional verbs such as &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;would,&#8221; or &#8220;could.&#8221; Forward-looking statements convey our expectations, intentions, or forecasts about future events, circumstances, or results. 

This report, including any information incorporated by reference in this report, contains forward-looking statements. We also may make forward-looking statements in other documents that are filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, we may make forward-looking statements orally or in writing to investors, analysts, members of the media, or others. 

All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, which may change over time and many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction or guarantee about the future. Actual future objectives, strategies, plans, prospects, performance, conditions, or results may differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking statement. While no list of assumptions, risks, or uncertainties could be complete, some of the factors that may cause actual results or other future events or circumstances to differ from those in forward-looking statements include: 

&#8226; evolving local, regional, national, or international business, economic, or political conditions; 

&#8226; changes in laws or the regulatory or supervisory environment, including as a result of recent financial services legislation, regulation, or policies or changes in government officials or other personnel; 

&#8226; changes in monetary, fiscal, or trade laws or policies, including as a result of actions by governmental agencies, central banks, or supranational authorities; 

&#8226; changes in accounting standards or policies, 

&#8226; changes in the automotive industry or the markets for new or used vehicles, including the rise of vehicle sharing and ride hailing, the development of autonomous and alternative-energy vehicles, and the impact of demographic shifts on attitudes and behaviors toward vehicle type, ownership, and use; 

&#8226; disruptions or shifts in investor sentiment or behavior in the securities, capital, or other financial markets, including financial or systemic shocks and volatility or changes in market liquidity, interest or currency rates, or valuations; 

&#8226; uncertainty about the future of LIBOR and any negative impacts that could result; 

&#8226; changes in business or consumer sentiment, preferences, or behavior, including spending, borrowing, or saving by businesses or households; 

&#8226; changes in our corporate or business strategies, the composition of our assets, or the way in which we fund those assets; 

&#8226; our ability to execute our business strategy for Ally Bank, including its digital focus; 

&#8226; our ability to optimize our automotive finance and insurance businesses and to continue diversifying into and growing other consumer and commercial business lines, including mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending, corporate finance, brokerage, and wealth management; 

&#8226; our ability to develop capital plans that will receive non-objection from the FRB and our ability to implement them, including any payment of dividends or share repurchases; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively manage capital or liquidity consistent with evolving business or operational needs, risk-management standards, and regulatory or supervisory requirements; 

&#8226; our ability to cost-effectively fund our business and operations, including through deposits and the capital markets; 

&#8226; changes in any credit rating assigned to Ally, including Ally Bank; 

&#8226; adverse publicity or other reputational harm to us or our senior officers; 

&#8226; our ability to develop, maintain, or market our products or services or to absorb unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with those products or services; 

&#8226; our ability to innovate, to anticipate the needs of current or future customers, to successfully compete, to increase or hold market share in changing competitive environments, or to deal with pricing or other competitive pressures; 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; the continuing profitability and viability of our dealer-centric automotive finance and insurance businesses, especially in the face of competition from captive finance companies and their automotive manufacturing sponsors and challenges to the dealer&#8217;s role as intermediary between manufacturers and purchasers; 

&#8226; our ability to appropriately underwrite loans that we originate or purchase and to otherwise manage credit risk; 

&#8226; changes in the credit, liquidity, or other financial condition of our customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively deal with economic, business, or market slowdowns or disruptions; 

&#8226; judicial, regulatory, or administrative investigations, proceedings, disputes, or rulings that create uncertainty for, or are adverse to, us or the financial services industry; 

&#8226; the potential outcomes of legal and regulatory proceedings and governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations, and other inquiries to which we are or may be subject at any given time, and our ability to remediate regulatory deficiencies on a timely basis and to otherwise absorb and address the heightened scrutiny and expectations generally from supervisory and other governmental authorities, the severity of remedies sought, such as enforcement proceeds, and the potential collateral consequences arising from those outcomes; 

&#8226; the performance and availability of third-party service providers on whom we rely in delivering products and services to our customers and otherwise conducting our business and operations; 

&#8226; our ability to maintain secure and functional financial, accounting, technology, data processing, or other operating systems or infrastructure, including our capacity to withstand cyberattacks; 

&#8226; the adequacy of our corporate governance, risk-management framework, compliance programs, or internal controls over financial reporting, including our ability to control lapses or deficiencies in financial reporting or to effectively mitigate or manage operational risk; 

&#8226; the efficacy of our methods or models in assessing business strategies or opportunities or in valuing, measuring, estimating, monitoring, or managing positions or risk; 

&#8226; our ability to keep pace with changes in technology that affect us or our customers, counterparties, service providers, or competitors; 

&#8226; our ability to successfully make and integrate acquisitions; 

&#8226; the adequacy of our succession planning for key executives or other personnel and our ability to attract or retain qualified employees; 

&#8226; natural or man-made disasters, calamities, or conflicts, including terrorist events and pandemics (such as adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers); 

&#8226; policies and other actions of governments to mitigate climate and related environmental risks, as well as associated changes in the behavior and preferences of businesses and consumers; or 

&#8226; other assumptions, risks, or uncertainties described in the Risk Factors (Item 1A), Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7), or the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or described in any of the Company&#8217;s annual, quarterly or current reports. 

Any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf speaks only as of the date that it was made. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of events, circumstances, or results that arise after the date that the statement was made, except as required by applicable securities laws. You, however, should consult further disclosures (including disclosures of a forward-looking nature) that we may make in any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term &#8220;loans&#8221; means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term &#8220;operating leases&#8221; means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle&#8217;s residual value. The terms &#8220;lend,&#8221; &#8220;finance,&#8221; and &#8220;originate&#8221; mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases as applicable. The term &#8220;consumer&#8221; means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;commercial&#8221; means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;partnerships&#8221; means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Overview 

Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, or we, us, or our) is a leading digital financial-services company. As a customer-centric company with passionate customer service and innovative financial solutions, we are relentlessly focused on &#8220;Doing it Right&#8221; and being a trusted financial-services provider to our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers. We are one of the largest full-service automotive finance operations in the United States and offer a wide range of financial services and insurance products to automotive dealerships and consumers. Our award-winning digital direct bank (Ally Bank, Member FDIC and Equal Housing Lender) offers mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending, and a variety of deposit and other banking products, including savings, money-market, and checking accounts, CDs, and IRAs. Additionally, we offer securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services through Ally Invest. Our corporate-finance business offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. We are a Delaware corporation and are registered as a BHC under the BHC Act, and an FHC under the GLB Act. 

Our Business 

Dealer Financial Services 

Dealer Financial Services comprises our Automotive Finance and Insurance segments. Our primary customers are automotive dealers, which are independently owned businesses. A dealer may sell or lease a vehicle for cash but, more typically, enters into a retail installment sales contract or operating lease with the customer and then sells the retail installment sales contract or the operating lease and the leased vehicle, as applicable, to Ally or another automotive-finance provider. The purchase by Ally or another provider is commonly described as indirect automotive lending to the customer. 

Our Dealer Financial Services business is one of the largest full-service automotive finance operations in the country and offers a wide range of financial services and insurance products to automotive dealerships and their customers. We have deep dealer relationships that have been built throughout our over 100-year history, and we are leveraging competitive strengths to expand our dealer footprint. Our dealer-centric business model encourages dealers to use our broad range of products through incentive programs like our Ally Dealer Rewards program. Our automotive finance services include purchasing retail installment sales contracts and operating leases from dealers, extending automotive loans directly to consumers, offering term loans to dealers, financing dealer floorplans and providing other lines of credit to dealers, supplying warehouse lines to automotive retailers, offering automotive-fleet financing, providing financing to companies and municipalities for the purchase or lease of vehicles, and supplying vehicle-remarketing services. We also offer retail VSCs and commercial insurance primarily covering dealers&#8217; vehicle inventories. We are a leading provider of VSCs, GAP, and VMCs. 

Automotive Finance 

Our Automotive Finance operations provide U.S.-based automotive financing services to consumers, automotive dealers, other businesses, and municipalities. Our dealer-focused business model, value-added products and services, full-spectrum financing, and business expertise proven over many credit cycles make us a premier automotive finance company. At December 31, 2020, our Automotive Finance operations had $104.8 billion of assets and generated $4.5 billion of total net revenue in 2020. For consumers, we provide financing for new and used vehicles. In addition, our CSG provides automotive financing for small businesses and municipalities. At December 31, 2020, our CSG had $8.2 billion of loans outstanding. Through our commercial automotive financing operations, we fund dealer purchases of new and used vehicles through wholesale floorplan financing. We manage commercial account servicing on approximately 3,200 dealers that utilize our floorplan inventory lending or other commercial loans. We service an $80.2 billion consumer loan and operating lease portfolio at December 31, 2020, and our commercial automotive loan portfolio was approximately $23.1 billion at December 31, 2020. The extensive infrastructure, technology, and analytics of our servicing operations as well as the experience of our servicing personnel enhance our ability to minimize our loan losses and enable us to deliver a favorable customer experience to both our dealers and retail customers. During 2020, we continued to reposition our origination profile to focus on capital optimization and risk-adjusted returns. In 2020, total consumer automotive originations were $35.1 billion, a decrease of $1.2 billion compared to 2019. The shorter-term duration consumer automotive loan and variable-rate commercial loan portfolios offer attractive asset classes where we continue to optimize risk-adjusted returns through origination mix management and pricing and underwriting discipline. 

Our success as an automotive finance provider is driven by the consistent and broad range of products and services we offer to dealers. The automotive marketplace is dynamic and evolving, including substantial investments in electrification by automobile manufacturers and suppliers. Ally remains focused on meeting the needs of both our dealer and consumer customers and continuing to strengthen and expand upon the 18,700 dealer relationships we have. We continue to identify and cultivate relationships with automotive retailers including those with leading eCommerce platforms. We also operate Clearlane, our online direct-lending platform, which provides a digital platform for consumers seeking direct financing. We believe these actions will enable us to respond to the growing trends for a more streamlined and digital automotive financing process to serve both dealers and consumers. Furthermore, our strong and expansive dealer relationships, comprehensive suite of products and services, full-spectrum financing, and depth of experience position us to evolve with future shifts in automobile technologies, including electrification. Ally has and continues to provide automobile financing for hybrid and battery-electric vehicles today, and is well positioned to remain a leader in automotive financing as we believe the vast majority of these vehicles will be sold through dealerships with whom we have an established relationship. 

The Growth channel was established to focus on developing dealer relationships beyond those relationships that primarily were developed through our previous role as a captive finance company for GM and Chrysler. The Growth channel was expanded to include direct-to-consumer financing through Clearlane and other channels and our arrangements with online automotive retailers. We have established relationships with thousands of Growth channel dealers through our customer-centric approach and specialized incentive programs designed 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

to drive loyalty amongst dealers to our products and services. The success of the Growth channel has been a key enabler in evolving our business model from a focused captive finance company to a leading market competitor. In this channel, we currently have over 12,300 dealer relationships, of which approximately 86% are franchised dealers (including brands such as Ford, Nissan, Kia, Hyundai, Toyota, Honda, and others), or used vehicle only retailers with a national presence. 

Over the past several years, we have continued to focus on the consumer used vehicle segment primarily through franchised dealers, which has resulted in used vehicle financing volume growth, and has positioned us as an industry leader in used vehicle financing. The highly fragmented used vehicle financing market, with a total financing opportunity represented by over 282 million vehicles in operation, provides an attractive opportunity that we believe will further expand and support our dealer relationships and increase our risk-adjusted return on retail loan originations. 

For consumers, we provide automotive loan financing and leasing for new and used vehicles to approximately 4.5 million customers. Retail financing for the purchase of vehicles by individual consumers generally takes the form of installment sales financing. We originated a total of approximately 1.3 million and 1.4 million automotive loans and operating leases during both the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, totaling $35.1 billion and $36.3 billion, respectively. 

Our consumer automotive financing operations generate revenue primarily through finance charges on retail installment sales contracts and rental payments on operating lease contracts. For operating leases, when the contract is originated, we estimate the residual value of the leased vehicle at lease termination. Periodically thereafter we revise the projected residual value of the leased vehicle at lease termination and adjust depreciation expense over the remaining life of the lease if appropriate. Given the fluctuations in used vehicle values, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the projected residual value, which results in gains or losses on lease termination. While all operating leases are exposed to potential reductions in used vehicle values, only loans where we take possession of the vehicle are affected by potential reductions in used vehicle values. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion of credit risk and lease residual risk. 

We continue to maintain a diverse mix of product offerings across a broad risk spectrum, subject to underwriting policies that reflect our risk appetite. Our current operating results increasingly reflect our ongoing strategy to grow used vehicle financing and expand risk-adjusted returns. While we predominately focus on prime-lending markets, we seek to be a meaningful source of financing to a wide spectrum of customers and continue to carefully measure risk versus return. We place great emphasis on our risk management and risk-based pricing policies and practices and employ robust credit decisioning processes coupled with granular pricing that is differentiated across our proprietary credit tiers. 

Our commercial automotive financing operations primarily fund dealer inventory purchases of new and used vehicles, commonly referred to as wholesale floorplan financing. This represents the largest portion of our commercial automotive financing business. Wholesale floorplan loans are secured by vehicles financed (and all other vehicle inventory), which provide strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are typically obtained to further mitigate credit risk. The amount we advance to dealers is equal to 100% of the wholesale invoice price of new vehicles. Interest on wholesale automotive financing is generally payable monthly and is indexed to a floating-rate benchmark. The rate for a particular dealer is based on, among other considerations, competitive factors and the dealer&#8217;s creditworthiness. During 2020, we financed an average of $19.3 billion of dealer vehicle inventory through wholesale floorplan financings. Other commercial automotive lending products, which averaged $5.7 billion during 2020, consist of automotive dealer revolving lines of credit, term loans, including those to finance dealership land and buildings, and dealer fleet financing. We also provide comprehensive automotive remarketing services, including the use of SmartAuction, our online auction platform, which efficiently supports dealer-to-dealer and other commercial wholesale vehicle transactions. SmartAuction provides diversified fee-based revenue and serves as a means of deepening relationships with our dealership customers. In 2020, Ally and other parties, including dealers, fleet rental companies, and financial institutions, utilized SmartAuction to sell approximately 258,000 vehicles to dealers and other commercial customers. SmartAuction served as the remarketing channel for 53% of our off-lease vehicles. 

Insurance 

Our Insurance operations offer both consumer finance protection and insurance products sold primarily through the automotive dealer channel, and commercial insurance products sold directly to dealers. We serve approximately 2.5 million consumers nationwide across F&#38;I and P&#38;C products. In addition, we offer F&#38;I products in Canada, where we serve more than 400 thousand consumers and are the VSC and other protection plan provider for GM Canada and VSC provider for Subaru Canada. Our Insurance operations had $9.1 billion of assets at December 31, 2020, and generated $1.4 billion of total net revenue during 2020. As part of our focus on offering dealers a broad range of consumer F&#38;I products, we offer VSCs, VMCs, and GAP products. We also underwrite selected commercial insurance coverages, which primarily insure dealers&#8217; wholesale vehicle inventory. Ally Premier Protection is our flagship VSC offering, which provides coverage for new and used vehicles of virtually all makes and models. We also offer ClearGuard on the SmartAuction platform, which is a protection product designed to minimize the risk to dealers from arbitration claims for eligible vehicles sold at auction. 

From a dealer perspective, Ally provides significant value and expertise, which creates high retention rates and strong relationships. In addition to our product offerings, we provide consultative services and training to assist dealers in optimizing F&#38;I results while achieving high levels of customer satisfaction and regulatory compliance. We also advise dealers regarding necessary liability and physical damage coverages. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Our F&#38;I products are primarily distributed indirectly through the automotive dealer network. We have established approximately 1,600 F&#38;I dealer relationships nationwide and 600 dealer relationships in Canada, with a focus on growing dealer relationships in the future. Our VSCs for retail customers offer owners and lessees mechanical repair protection and roadside assistance for new and used vehicles beyond the manufacturer&#8217;s new vehicle warranty. These VSCs are marketed to the public through automotive dealerships and on a direct response basis. We also offer GAP products, which allow the recovery of a specified amount beyond the covered vehicle&#8217;s value in the event the vehicle is damaged or stolen and declared a total loss. We continue to evolve our product suite and digital capabilities to position our business for future opportunities through growing third-party relationships and sales through our online direct-lending platform, Clearlane. 

We have approximately 3,400 dealer relationships within our P&#38;C business to whom we offer a variety of commercial products and levels of coverage. Vehicle inventory insurance for dealers provides physical damage protection for dealers&#8217; floorplan vehicles. Among dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, our insurance product penetration rate is approximately 78%. Dealers who receive wholesale financing from us are eligible for insurance incentives such as automatic eligibility for our preferred insurance programs. 

A significant aspect of our Insurance operations is the investment of proceeds from premiums and other revenue sources. We use these investments to satisfy our obligations related to future claims at the time these claims are settled. Our Insurance operations have an Investment Committee, which develops guidelines and strategies for these investments. The guidelines established by this committee reflect our risk appetite, liquidity requirements, regulatory requirements, and rating agency considerations, among other factors. 

Mortgage Finance 

Our Mortgage Finance operations consist of the management of held-for-investment and held-for-sale consumer mortgage loan portfolios. Our held-for-investment portfolio includes our direct-to-consumer Ally Home mortgage offering, and bulk purchases of high-quality jumbo and LMI mortgage loans originated by third parties. Our Mortgage Finance operations had $14.9 billion of assets at December 31, 2020, and generated $220 million of total net revenue in 2020. 

Through our direct-to-consumer channel, which was introduced late in 2016, we offer a variety of competitively priced jumbo and conforming fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage products through a third-party fulfillment provider. Under our current arrangement, our direct-to-consumer conforming mortgages are originated as held for sale and sold, while jumbo and LMI mortgages are originated as held for investment. Loans originated in the direct-to-consumer channel are sourced by existing Ally customer marketing, prospect marketing on third-party websites, and email or direct mail campaigns. In April 2019, we announced a strategic partnership with BMC, which delivers an enhanced end-to-end digital mortgage experience for our customers through our direct-to-consumer channel. Through this partnership, BMC conducts the sales, processing, underwriting, and closing for Ally&#8217;s digital mortgage offerings in a highly innovative, scalable, and cost-efficient manner, while Ally retains control of all the marketing and advertising strategies and loan pricing. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we originated $4.7 billion of mortgage loans through our direct-to-consumer channel. 

Through the bulk loan channel, we purchase loans from several qualified sellers including direct originators and large aggregators who have the financial capacity to support strong representations and warranties and the industry knowledge and experience to originate high-quality assets. Bulk purchases are made on a servicing-released basis, allowing us to directly oversee servicing activities and manage refinancing through our direct-to-consumer channel. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we purchased $4.2 billion of mortgage loans that were originated by third parties. Our mortgage loan purchases are held-for-investment. 

The combination of our direct-to-consumer strategy and bulk portfolio purchase program provides the capacity to expand revenue sources and further grow and diversify our finance receivable portfolio with an attractive asset class while also deepening relationships with existing Ally customers. 

Corporate Finance 

Our Corporate Finance operations primarily provides senior secured leveraged cash flow and asset-based loans to mostly U.S.-based middle-market companies owned by private equity sponsors, and loans to asset managers that primarily provide leveraged loans. Our Corporate Finance operations had $6.1 billion of assets at December 31, 2020, and generated $344 million of total net revenue during 2020, and continues to offer attractive returns and diversification benefits to our broader lending portfolio. We believe our growing deposit-based funding model coupled with our expanded product offerings and deep industry relationships provide an advantage over our competition, which includes other banks as well as publicly and privately held finance companies. While there continues to be a significant level of liquidity and competition in the middle-market lending space, we have continued to prudently grow our lending portfolio with a focus on a disciplined and selective approach to credit quality, including a greater focus on asset-based loans. We seek markets and opportunities where our clients require customized, highly structured, and time-sensitive financing solutions. Our corporate-finance lending portfolio is generally composed of first-lien, first-out loans. 

Our focus is on businesses owned by private equity sponsors with loans typically used for leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, debt refinancing, expansions, restructurings, and working capital. Loan facilities typically include both a revolver and term loan component. Our target commitment hold level for these individual exposures ranges from $15 million to $150 million, depending on product type. Additionally, our Lender Finance business provides asset managers with facilities from $50 million to up to $500 million to partially fund their direct-lending activities. We also selectively arrange larger transactions that we may retain on-balance sheet or syndicate to other lenders. By syndicating loans to other lenders, we are able to provide financing commitments in excess of our target hold levels to our customers and generate loan syndication fee income while limiting our risk exposure to individual borrowers. All of our loans are floating-rate facilities with maturities, typically ranging from two to seven years. In certain instances, we may be offered the opportunity to make 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

small equity investments in our borrowers. The portfolio is well diversified across multiple industries including manufacturing, financials, distribution, services, and other specialty sectors. These specialty sectors include our Healthcare and Technology Finance verticals. The Healthcare vertical provides financing across the healthcare spectrum including services, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, and medical devices and supplies. We also provide a commercial real estate product focused on lending to skilled nursing facilities, senior housing, medical office buildings, and hospitals. Our Technology Finance vertical provides financing solutions to venture capital-backed, technology-based companies. Other smaller complementary product offerings that help strengthen our reputation as a full-spectrum provider of financing solutions for borrowers include selectively offering second-out loans on certain transactions and issuing letters of credit through Ally Bank. 

Corporate and Other 

Overview 

Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities such as management of the cash and corporate investment securities and loan portfolios, short- and long-term debt, retail and brokered deposit liabilities, derivative instruments, original issue discount, and the residual impacts of our corporate FTP and treasury ALM activities. Corporate and Other also includes activity related to certain equity investments, which primarily consist of FHLB and FRB stock as well as other strategic investments, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, which primarily consists of loans originated prior to January 1, 2009, the activity related to Ally Invest and Ally Lending, CRA loans and related investments, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. 

Ally Invest 

Corporate and Other includes the results of Ally Invest, our digital brokerage and wealth management offering, which enables us to complement our competitive deposit products with low-cost investing. The digital wealth management business aligns with our strategy to create a premier digital financial services company and provides additional sources of fee income through asset management and certain other fees, with minimal balance sheet utilization. This business also provides an additional source of low-cost brokered deposits through arrangements with Ally Invest&#8217;s clearing broker. 

Through Ally Invest, we are able to offer a broader array of products through a fully integrated digital consumer platform centered around self-directed products and digital advisory services. Ally Invest&#8217;s suite of commission-free and low-cost investing options serve both active and passive investors with diverse and evolving financial objectives through a transparent online process. Our digital platform and broad product offerings are enhanced by outstanding client-focused and user-friendly customer service that is generally accessible twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, via the phone, web or email&#8212;consistent with the Ally brand. 

Ally Invest provides clients with self-directed trading services for a variety of securities including stocks, options, ETFs, mutual funds, and fixed-income products through Ally Invest Securities. Ally Invest Securities also offers margin lending, which allows customers to borrow money by using securities and cash currently held in their accounts as collateral. Through Ally Invest Forex, we offer self-directed investors and traders the ability to trade over 50 currency pairs through a state-of-the-art forex trading platform. 

Ally Invest also provides digital advisory services to clients through web-based solutions, informational resources, and virtual interaction through Ally Invest Advisors, an SEC-registered investment advisor. These services have emerged as a fast-growing segment within the financial services industry over the past several years. Ally Invest Advisors provides clients the opportunity to obtain professional portfolio management services in return for a fee based upon the client&#8217;s assets under management. We also offer cash enhanced portfolios that incur no management fee. A number of core managed portfolios are offered, which hold ETFs diversified across asset class, industry sector, and geography and which are customized for clients based on risk tolerance, investment time horizon, and wealth ratio. 

Ally Lending 

Additionally, beginning in October 2019 with the acquisition of Health Credit Services, financial information related to our consumer unsecured financing is included within Corporate and Other. The Health Credit Services business has been renamed Ally Lending and currently serves medical and home improvement service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. The home improvement segment, which was launched in the second quarter of 2020, now represents nearly 20% of new originations, and is expected to grow. We believe the market outlook for point-of-sale lending provides attractive opportunities for future diversification, including in the automotive servicing and vehicle upfit space. Point-of-sale lending broadens our capabilities, and expands our product offering into consumer unsecured lending, all while helping to further meet the financial needs of our customers. Refer to Note 2 for additional details on the acquisition of Ally Lending. 

Corporate Treasury and ALM Activities 

The net financing revenue and other interest income of our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance operations include the results of an FTP process that insulates these operations from interest rate volatility by matching assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. The FTP process assigns charge rates to the assets and credit rates to the liabilities within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance operations, based on anticipated maturity and a benchmark rate curve plus an assumed credit spread. The assumed credit spread represents the cost of funds for each asset class based on a blend of funding channels available to the enterprise, including unsecured and secured capital markets, private funding facilities, and deposits. In addition, a risk-based methodology is used to allocate equity to these operations. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Deposits 

We are focused on growing and retaining a stable deposit base and deepening relationships with our 2.3 million primary deposit customers by leveraging our compelling brand and strong value proposition. Ally Bank is a digital direct bank with no branch network that obtains retail deposits directly from customers through internet, telephone, mobile, and mail channels. We have grown our deposits with a strong brand that is based on a promise of being straightforward with our customers and offering high-quality customer service. Ally Bank has consistently increased its share of the direct banking deposit market and remains one of the largest direct banks in terms of retail deposit balances. Our strong customer acquisition and retention rates reflect the strength of our brand and, together with competitive deposit rates, continue to drive growth in retail deposits. At December 31, 2020, Ally Bank had $137.0 billion of total deposits&#8212;including $124.4 billion of retail deposits, which grew $20.6 billion, or 20% during 2020. Over the past several years, the continued growth of our retail-deposit base has contributed to a more favorable mix of lower cost funding and we continue to focus on efficient deposit growth by continuing to expand the deposit value proposition beyond competitive deposit rates. Our segment results include cost of funds associated with these deposit-product offerings. 

Our deposit products and services are designed to develop long-term customer relationships and capitalize on the shift in consumer preference for direct banking. Our deposits franchise is key to growing and building momentum across our suite of digital offerings at Ally Home, Ally Invest, and Ally Lending, consistent with our strategic objective to grow multi-product customers. These products and services appeal to a broad group of customers, many of whom appreciate a streamlined digital experience coupled with our strong value proposition. Ally Bank offers a full spectrum of retail deposit products, including online savings accounts, money market demand accounts, CDs, interest-bearing checking accounts, trust accounts, and IRAs. Our deposit services include Zelle&#174; person-to-person payment services, eCheck remote deposit capture, and mobile banking. In February 2020, we introduced a collection of smart savings tools to our online savings product, and continue to enhance our suite of online and mobile banking features. In 2020, our online savings customers created over 1 million savings buckets throughout the year within our smart savings tools. In addition, brokered deposits are obtained through third-party intermediaries. 

We believe we are well-positioned to continue to benefit from the consumer-driven shift from branch banking to direct banking as demonstrated by the growth we have experienced since 2010. Our nearly 2.3 million deposit customers and 4.5 million retail bank accounts as of December 31, 2020, reflect increases from 2.0 million and 4.0 million, respectively, as compared to December 31, 2019. Our customer base spans across diverse demographic segmentations and socioeconomic bands. Our direct bank business model resonates particularly well with the millennial generation, which consistently makes up the largest percentage of our new customers. According to a 2020 American Bankers Association survey, 87% of customers prefer to do their banking most often via digital and other direct channels (internet, mobile, telephone, and mail). Furthermore, over the past five years, estimated direct banking deposits as a percentage of the broader retail deposits market increased by approximately 3 percentage points, from 7% to 10%. We have received a positive response to innovative savings and other deposit products and have been named the &#8220;Best Internet Bank&#8221; by Kiplinger for the fourth consecutive year in June 2020, and for the eighth time in the last ten years, we were named &#8220;Best Online Bank&#8221; by MONEY&#174; Magazine in October 2020. Ally Bank&#8217;s competitive direct banking includes online and mobile banking features such as electronic bill pay, remote deposit, and electronic funds transfer nationwide, with innovative interfaces such as banking through Alexa-enabled devices, and no minimum balance requirements. 

We intend to continue to grow and invest in our digital direct bank and further capitalize on the shift in consumer preference for direct banking with expanded digital capabilities and customer-centric products that utilize advanced analytics for personalized interactions and other technologies that improve efficiency, security, and the customer&#8217;s connection to the brand. We are focused on growing, deepening, and further leveraging the customer relationships and brand loyalty that exist with Ally Bank as a catalyst for future loan and deposit growth, as well as revenue opportunities that arise from introducing Ally Bank deposit customers to our digital wealth management offering, Ally Invest. 

Significant Business Developments Related to COVID-19 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public-health crisis that has resulted in the substantial loss of life, with widespread volatility and deteriorations in household, business, economic, and market conditions, including in the United States where we conduct nearly all of our business. Although several leading measures, such as labor conditions and the rate of growth as measured by GDP, have improved since the early stages of the pandemic, COVID-19 has not yet been contained and could continue to affect significantly more households and businesses. 

Many governmental and nongovernmental authorities have responded to COVID-19 by curtailing household and business activity as a containment measure while simultaneously deploying fiscal- and monetary-policy measures to partially mitigate the adverse effects on individual households and businesses. Although these responses have slowed the rate of spread of COVID-19 and supported economic stability, the number of cases has risen meaningfully at times, and the potential exists for further resurgences to occur, especially during the traditional cold-and-flu season. In addition, while monetary policy remains highly accommodative and a number of stimulative fiscal programs and actions have been deployed, the national economy and regional and local economies and markets could suffer further disruptions that are lasting. 

While we have experienced improvements in our business since the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has nonetheless negatively impacted us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers since the spread of the disease began to accelerate in March 2020. At this time, we cannot yet be confident in the extent of this negative impact or the trajectory of the macroeconomic outlook&#8212;especially with the most recent resurgence of COVID-19 in much of the United States and ongoing uncertainties around the efficacy, availability, acceptance, and distribution of vaccines and other medical treatments&#8212;and the adverse effects on our 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects could be significant. For further information on these risks and uncertainties, refer to the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. 

During the pandemic, we have consistently prioritized the health and well-being of our employees, offered industry-leading support and relief to our customers, and strived to make a difference in the communities where we operate. These actions reflect our relentless &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy. 

&#8226; Credit-risk management &#8212; The credit performance of our portfolio of loans has been impacted by the pandemic. Prior to the pandemic, the national unemployment rate was below 4% for an extended period and was projected to sustain those levels into the foreseeable future. Additionally, most widely available forecasts assumed that a moderate rate of growth would continue throughout 2020. The impact of the lockdowns, stay-in-place directives, and other restrictive actions issued and enforced by federal, state and local officials as a result of the pandemic, contributed to a significant increase in the national unemployment rate, which rose to a peak of 14.7%, as adjusted, in April before initially moderating at a faster-than-expected-pace to 7.9%, as adjusted, as of September 30 2020. In the fourth quarter of 2020, the national unemployment rate stabilized&#8212;particularly in November and December&#8212;ending at 6.7% as of December 31, 2020. Similarly, the rate of economic growth, as measured by GDP, declined sharply on a quarter-over-quarter seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis in the second quarter by 31.7%, and rebounded in the third and fourth quarters of 2020 as the economy grew by 33.1%, as adjusted, and 4.0%, respectively, quarter-over-quarter based on this measure. On a year-over-year basis, GDP contracted by 2.5%. 

In response to the impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken significant actions to support our customers with industry-leading relief programs, while prudently managing our credit risk exposure. Refer to the section titled Risk Management within this MD&#38;A for additional details on these programs. Following the termination of these programs, we have continued to work with impacted customers in accordance with our established credit risk management policies and practices. We have invested significant resources, including introducing enhanced digital capabilities and new communication tools, to support customers who continue to experience hardships after the initial deferrals expire. Additionally, our scaled staffing model and resource capabilities have allowed for a nimble response to augment staffing to support these efforts. 

In addition to the support that we have provided to our customers, governments have taken necessary and unprecedented steps to partially mitigate the adverse effects of their actions to contain the spread of COVID-19. For example, in late March 2020, the CARES Act was enacted to inject more than $2 trillion of financial assistance into the U.S. economy. One component of the CARES Act is the PPP, which is a guaranteed, unsecured loan program administered by the Small Business Administration (SBA). Loans under the PPP are made to borrowers by participating lenders, are fully guaranteed, and may be forgiven, by the SBA. PPP eligible borrowers must use loan proceeds for payroll costs and other allowable expenses, including mortgage payments, rents, and utilities. At December 31, 2020, we had loans with a principal balance of $638 million outstanding to our commercial dealer customers under the PPP. As these loans are guaranteed by the SBA, we do not maintain an allowance for loan losses under CECL for this portfolio. Among its other provisions, the CARES Act significantly expanded eligibility for, and the amount of, unemployment benefits, created and funded the advance payment of a refundable tax credit for 2020, and appropriated $500 billion to the Treasury Secretary to support U.S. air carriers and other U.S. businesses that have not otherwise received adequate economic relief as well as states and municipalities. Following the expiration of the stimulus programs under the CARES Act, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 was signed into law. This law included a $900 billion COVID-19 relief package that extended certain programs introduced in the CARES Act and included incremental funding for the PPP, enhanced unemployment benefits, and direct payments for qualifying individuals and households. We will continue to work with our commercial dealer customers that are eligible for additional assistance under the PPP program. 

The deterioration and uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment experienced in 2020 from the pandemic and related mitigation efforts drove a significant increase in our allowance for loan losses and provision for credit losses. Our provision expense for credit losses increased $441 million to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. While the macroeconomic environment rebounded significantly in the third quarter and stabilized in the fourth quarter of 2020, the increase in provision expense year-over-year reflects the significant deterioration observed since the inception of the pandemic. During the second half of March 2020, the U.S. economy experienced a significant deterioration driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, which impacted our allowance for loan losses. During the first quarter, we recorded an additional $602 million of provision expense for credit losses associated with the deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook from COVID-19. During the second quarter of 2020, we incurred total provision expense of $287 million, which included $128 million attributable to the macroeconomic environment and other factors aside from changes in portfolio size and incremental net charge-offs. During the third quarter of 2020, we incurred total provision expense of $147 million, which included a reduction in reserves of $34 million attributable to the improving macroeconomic environment&#8212;predominately the unemployment rate, and other factors aside from changes in portfolio size and incremental net charge-offs. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded total provision expense of $102 million, which included a further reduction in reserves of $114 million attributable to the continued economic recovery, and other factors aside from changes in portfolio size and incremental net charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Provision expense for credit losses was favorably impacted by lower net charge-offs in our consumer automotive portfolio as losses decreased $84 million for the three months ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. The significant decrease in net charge-offs in our consumer automotive portfolio for the three months ended December 31, 2020, was attributable to 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

strong payment performance and delinquency trends through the pandemic. Personal income and savings levels have increased as lenders, including us, have provided significant support in the form of loan modifications and fee waivers, which is in addition to the fiscal and monetary stimulus actions detailed above. Similarly, consumer discretionary spending levels have decreased significantly during the pandemic, most notably in the first and second quarters of 2020, driven by reductions in spending on services, travel, and entertainment, as a result of stay-in-place orders. Net charge-offs in our consumer automotive portfolio also continue to benefit from strong used vehicle prices. In the second half of 2020, used vehicle prices, as well as our off-lease gain per unit, reached the highest level since January 2010, which reduced the realized loss impact in instances of default. Used vehicle prices normalized modestly in the fourth quarter of 2020, but remain elevated. 

While we are encouraged by the positive signs in performance observed during the second half of 2020, the degree to which our actions and those of governments and others will directly or indirectly assist our customers, and the economy generally, is not yet clear. 

&#8226; Liquidity management, funding, and capital markets &#8212; Our retail deposit business has remained a source of strength for us through the pandemic. To support our retail deposit customers, we waived fees for overdrafts, and excessive transactions, and expedited shipping of checks and debit cards through July 31, 2020. Through December 31, 2020, we refunded fees of approximately $7 million on excess transactions and overdrafts. For our brokerage customers, we waived fees for broker-assisted trades, paper statements, and overnight outbound check processing through July 31, 2020. In our retail deposits business, we continue to monitor several key items in light of a highly uncertain macroeconomic outlook, including elevated competitive pressures on the direct-banking industry given the low rate environment, overall financial health of the U.S. consumer and potential impacts of the pandemic, uncertainty around further stimulus measures, and how customers deploy elevated savings levels over time. Our deposits franchise recorded strong growth in retail deposits during the year ended December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we grew retail deposits by approximately $20.6 billion to $124.4 billion, representing 20% growth year-over-year, despite declines in online savings and CD product yields. Our retail deposit customer retention rate remained steady through 2020 at approximately 96% while we grew our mix of total deposit funding to 85%, with the remainder of liability-based funding through secured, unsecured, and FHLB borrowings. For additional discussions surrounding our liquidity positions and related risks, refer to the section titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital in this MD&#38;A. 

In addition to the significant injection of fiscal stimulus by the federal government throughout 2020, the FRB has taken decisive and sweeping actions. Since March 15, 2020, these actions have included a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate to zero to 0.25 percent, a program to purchase an indeterminate amount of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, and numerous facilities to support the flow of credit to households and businesses, such as the Municipal Liquidity Facility, the Main Street Lending Program, the Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility, the Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility, the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, and the Commercial Paper Funding Facility. During 2020, we executed opportunistic liability management actions and secured additional liquidity at Ally Financial Inc. through the unsecured debt capital markets. On April 6, 2020, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.8% senior unsecured notes due 2025. On June 1 2020, we issued $800 million aggregate principal amount of 3.05% senior unsecured notes due 2023. On September 16, 2020, and December 1, 2020, we issued $750 million and $450 million, respectively, aggregate principal amounts of 1.45% senior unsecured notes due 2023. To more cost-effectively manage liquidity at Ally Bank, we elected to prepay and early terminate 25 FHLB advances with an aggregate principal balance of $4.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020. In doing so, we recognized losses on the early repayments of FHLB borrowings of $99 million. We continue to assess liability management opportunities utilizing our deposit funding at Ally Bank. 

Public equity markets have experienced significant volatility as a result of the pandemic, which has impacted our investment securities portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized net realized and unrealized gains on equity securities of $107 million and $29 million, respectively. Given the unpredictability of COVID-19 and its direct and indirect effects on market conditions, it is possible that unusual volatility in the equity markets could positively or negatively impact our results. 

&#8226; Regulatory capital and stress testing &#8212; We continue to carefully monitor our capital and liquidity positions. On March 17, 2020, in order to support the FRB&#8217;s effort to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. economy and the financial system, we announced the voluntary suspension of our stock-repurchase program through its termination on June 30, 2020. Consistent with the FRB&#8217;s restrictions on common-stock repurchases by large firms such as Ally, described below, we did not implement a new stock-repurchase program or repurchase shares of our common stock, except in connection with compensation plans, for the remainder of 2020. 

We have elected to phase the estimated impact of CECL into regulatory capital in accordance with the interim final rule of the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies that became effective on March 31, 2020, and that was subsequently clarified and adjusted in a final rule effective September 30, 2020. As further described in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we will delay recognizing the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until after a two-year deferral period, which for us extends through December 31, 2021. Beginning on January 1, 2022, we will be required to phase in 25% of the previously deferred estimated capital impact of CECL, with an additional 25% to be phased in at the beginning of each subsequent year until fully phased in by the first quarter of 2025. As of December 31, 2020, the total deferred impact on Common Equity Tier 1 capital related to our adoption of CECL was $1.2 billion. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

We submitted our 2020 capital plan to the FRB in April 2020. In June 2020, the FRB provided us with the results of the supervisory stress test, additional industry-wide sensitivity analyses conducted in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, and our preliminary stress capital buffer requirement. At the same time, the FRB announced its determination that changes in financial markets or the macroeconomic outlook could have a material effect on the risk profiles and financial conditions of firms subject to the capital-plan rule and that, as a result, the firms (including Ally) would be required to resubmit capital plans to the FRB within 45 days after receiving updated stress scenarios from the FRB. Also at the same time, the FRB announced the suspension of nearly all common-stock repurchases and restrictions on common-stock dividends for large firms such as Ally during the third quarter of 2020. In September 2020, the FRB released its updated scenarios and extended the limitations on common-stock repurchases and common-stock dividends for the fourth quarter of 2020. We updated our capital plan in light of firm-specific baseline and stress scenarios, as required, and submitted our updated plan to the FRB on November 2, 2020. In December 2020, the FRB publicly disclosed summary results of its second round of supervisory stress testing and extended the deadline by which firms will be notified about whether their stress capital buffer requirements will be recalculated to March 31, 2021. At the same time, the FRB extended and modified its restrictions on common-stock repurchases and common-stock dividends for the first quarter of 2021, limiting such distributions to an amount equal to the average of the firm&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters. In January 2021, our Board authorized a stock-repurchase program, permitting us to repurchase up to $1.6 billion of our common stock from time to time from the first quarter of 2021 through the fourth quarter of 2021. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion about regulatory capital, capital planning, and stress testing. 

At December 31, 2020, Ally and Ally Bank were &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and met all applicable regulatory capital requirements, with Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratios of 10.64% and 13.38%, respectively. We continue to anticipate that we will have sufficient capital levels to meet all of these requirements. 

&#8226; Dealer Financial Services &#8212; Our lending and finance receivable balances have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Through the second quarter of 2020, as governments acted to temporarily close or restrict the operations of businesses, including automotive dealers, and as many consumers and businesses changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to sharply restrain commercial and social interactions, we experienced significant reductions in our consumer automotive loan applications. In addition, we took actions at the beginning of the second quarter of 2020 to mitigate credit risk exposure on net originations by systematically reducing approval rates on high-risk application segments and increasing the scope of manual underwriter reviews, with a heightened emphasis on income and employment verifications. Furthermore, we observed downward pressure on the automotive sales and other operating results of our dealer customers, on their capacity to accept the return of leased vehicles, and on used-vehicle auction activity and values. Many automotive manufacturers and their suppliers also had taken measures to slow or shut down production in response to the pandemic, which negatively affected dealer inventory levels and sales and significantly reduced wholesale floorplan lending business to dealers. As consumers and businesses adapted to changed conditions and many governmental authorities relaxed their restrictions later in the second quarter, we began to observe a recovery in loan application volume and resulting booked originations. As the outlook for national unemployment improved from peak levels, we also methodically eased certain credit underwriting restrictions that were enacted at the start of the pandemic. Additionally, automotive manufacturers and suppliers restarted production, albeit at reduced levels, and in August 2020 we experienced our first month-over-month increase in wholesale floorplan balances since the pandemic was declared. This modest recovery in wholesale floorplan balances continued through December 31, 2020. Since declining $9.7 billion in the second quarter of 2020, our commercial automotive assets increased $146 million and $1.3 billion in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively. In the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, we decisioned 3.1 million, 3.2 million, and 2.8 million of consumer automotive financing applications, respectively, compared to 3.3 million, 3.2 million, and 2.9 million in the same periods of 2019. These applications resulted in funded balances of approximately $7.2 billion, $9.8 billion, and $9.1 billion, in the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively, as compared to $9.7 billion, $9.3 billion, and $8.1 billion in the same periods of 2019. Booked contracts from our used segment totaled over $19.3 billion in 2020. The carrying value of our consumer automotive used vehicle loans before allowance for loan losses was 58.3% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2020, as compared to 54.9% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2019. Refer to the section titled Automotive Financing Volume in this MD&#38;A for a further discussion regarding the impacts of COVID-19 on our business. 

In our Insurance operations, we similarly experienced significantly reduced F&#38;I written premiums in late March and early in the second quarter, followed by a recovery through the end of 2020. Total F&#38;I written premiums were $236 million, $269 million, and $242 million in the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, compared to $270 million, $274 million, and $250 million during the same periods in the prior year. Written insurance premiums from our property and casualty business declined during the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of lower vehicle inventory levels due primarily to impacts of COVID-19. 

&#8226; Other consumer and commercial products &#8212; Within our Corporate Finance business, we experienced higher draws on commercial customer lines of credit during the second half of March 2020, but this trend abated in April. Through the remainder of 2020, we experienced significant pay-downs on draws that had been taken at the outset of the pandemic. Our balance of unfunded commitments increased from $2.5 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2020 to $3.5 billion, $3.8 billion, and $4.2 billion at the end of the second, third, and fourth quarters, respectively. 

In our Mortgage Finance business, refinance volume and prepayment activity increased through the end of 2020, driven by lower market interest rates. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

In Ally Invest, we observed a significant increase in the number of self-directed accounts to 406,000 through the fourth quarter of 2020, up 17% year-over-year. While we experienced a significant outflow of deposits to brokerage accounts after the pandemic had been declared, Ally Invest was able to capture approximately one-third of these outflows. Net customer assets reached $13.4 billion as of December 31, 2020, and we experienced higher than usual daily trade volume throughout the pandemic. 

In our point-of-sale personal lending business, we originated $503 million of personal loans during the year ended December 31, 2020, as we continue to grow Ally Lending. 

&#8226; General operations &#8212; The COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental mandates and advisories have necessitated changes in the way we operate our business. We activated our business continuity plan in late February 2020 and, since then, have migrated nearly all our workforce off-site or to work-from-home arrangements to mitigate health risks. We are also carefully monitoring the activities of our vendors and other third-party service providers to manage the risks associated with any potential service disruptions. The length of time we may be required to operate under these circumstances, as well as the potential for them to worsen or for significant disruptions to occur, remains uncertain. While we have not yet experienced material adverse disruptions to our internal operations or third-party services due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to review evolving risks and developments. 

&#8226; Employees and communities &#8212; To support our employees during the pandemic, we have provided a range of financial-assistance offerings and enhanced benefits, including a $1,200 payment for those earning less than $100,000. In May, we launched the Ally Employee Relief Fund with a $250,000 contribution. Including matching contributions by Ally, this fund has been augmented by over $160,000 in additional donations and has helped over 500 of our employees. In August, recognizing the continuing difficulties caused by the pandemic, we paid 50% of the 2020 incentive-compensation targets for most of our non-executive employees. These payments were not incremental but rather were an advance of expected year-end amounts. 

Consistent with our culture and &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy, we have pledged financial support to our communities for emergency needs, such as food, health care, emergency housing, and childcare. For example, on September 24, 2020, we announced our commitment to invest $30 million in communities across our geographic footprint over the next three years. We also announced the creation of the Ally Charitable Foundation, which will deploy grants to support economic mobility in the communities we serve with a focus on affordable housing, financial literacy, workplace preparedness, and other initiatives. In December 2020, we contributed $34 million to the Ally Charitable Foundation. 

We are committed to driving financial and social inclusion as part of our &#8216;Do it Right&#8217; philosophy. This means engaging with stakeholders&#8212;including our customers, communities, employees, and suppliers&#8212; to improve economic mobility. In January 2020, Ally launched its Supplier Diversity program to focus on diversity and inclusion among its supplier base. The Supplier Diversity program includes a proactive business strategy encouraging the use of suppliers owned by U.S.-based minorities, women, LGBTQ, veterans, service-disabled veterans and those with disabilities, and small or disadvantaged businesses defined by local, state, or federal classifications. The program also encourages all Ally third-party suppliers to utilize diverse-owned suppliers and small businesses on a second-tier basis. During 2020, we initiated a second-tier reporting program to capture additional diverse spend associated with Ally&#8217;s prime suppliers that are utilizing minority, women, LGBTQ, veteran, disability-owned, and small or disadvantaged businesses to help support Ally. Additionally, in January 2021, Ally hosted its inaugural Supplier Diversity Symposium, engaging more than 40 diverse suppliers in a company-wide networking event with our CEO and other Ally business executives to build relationships and explore opportunities to expand our spend with diverse suppliers. 

In 2020, we hosted our second annual Moguls in the Making competition, which was held virtually with 50 students working in teams to develop a business plan that took into account COVID-19 and social equity. These experiences help develop skills for future careers, including for the over 20 students who have been offered internships with Ally in 2020. In early 2021, we took additional steps to address inequality of access to careers with long-term growth potential with a $1.3 million commitment in scholarships and programs in partnership with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, TMCF, and other professional university groups. 

Funding and Liquidity 

Our funding strategy targets a stable retail deposit base, supplemented by brokered deposits, public and private secured debt, and public unsecured debt. These diversified funding sources are managed across products, markets, and investors to enhance funding flexibility and stability, resulting in a more cost-effective long-term funding strategy. 

Prudent expansion of asset originations at Ally Bank and continued growth of a stable deposit base continue to be the cornerstone of our long-term liquidity strategy. Retail deposits provide a low-cost source of funds that are less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility, or changes in our credit ratings than other funding sources. At December 31, 2020, deposit liabilities totaled $137.0 billion, which reflects an increase of $16.3 billion as compared to December 31, 2019. Deposits as a percentage of total liability-based funding increased ten percentage points to 85% at December 31, 2020, as compared to December 31, 2019. 

In addition to building a larger deposit base, we maintain a presence in the securitization markets to finance our automotive loan portfolios. Securitizations continue to be a reliable and cost-effective source of funding due to structural efficiencies and the established market. Additionally, for retail loans, the term structure of the transaction locks in funding for a specified pool of loans. Once a pool of consumer automotive loans is selected and placed into a securitization, the underlying assets and corresponding debt amortize simultaneously 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

resulting in committed and matched funding for the life of the asset. We manage the execution risk arising from securitizations by maintaining a diverse domestic and foreign investor base and committed secured credit facilities. 

As we continue to migrate assets to Ally Bank and grow our bank funding capabilities, our need for funding at the parent company has been reduced. At December 31, 2020, 94% of Ally&#8217;s total assets were within Ally Bank. This compares to approximately 93% as of December 31, 2019. Longer-term unsecured debt is the primary funding source utilized at the parent company. At December 31, 2020, we had $702 million and $1.1 billion of unsecured long-term debt principal maturing in 2021 and 2022, respectively. We plan to reduce our reliance on market-based funding by continuing to focus on stable, lower cost retail deposit funding. 

The strategies outlined above have allowed us to build and maintain a conservative liquidity position. Total available liquidity at December 31, 2020, was $40.3 billion. Absolute levels of liquidity increased during 2020 primarily as a result of increased liquid cash and equivalents. Refer to the section below titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital for a further discussion about liquidity risk management. 

Credit Strategy 

Our strategy and approach to extending credit, as well as our management of credit risk, are critical elements of our business. Credit performance is influenced by several factors including our risk appetite, our credit and underwriting processes, our monitoring and collection efforts, the financial condition of our borrowers, the performance of loan collateral, fiscal and monetary stimulus, and various macroeconomic considerations. Most of our businesses offer credit products and services, which drive overall business performance. Consistent with our risk appetite, our business lines operate under credit standards that consider the borrower&#8217;s ability and willingness to repay loans. The failure to effectively manage credit risk can have a direct and significant impact on Ally&#8217;s earnings, capital position, and reputation. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for a further discussion of credit risk and performance of our consumer and commercial credit portfolios. 

Within our Automotive Finance operations, we target a mix of consumers across the credit spectrum to achieve portfolio diversification and to optimize the risk and return of our consumer automotive portfolio. This is achieved through the utilization of robust credit decisioning processes coupled with granular pricing that is differentiated across our proprietary credit tiers. While we are a full-spectrum automotive finance lender, the significant majority of our consumer automotive loans are underwritten within the prime-lending segment. The carrying value of our nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses, as of December 31, 2020, was approximately 11.7% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2020. During 2020, our strategy for originations has been to optimize the deployment of capital by focusing on risk-adjusted returns against available origination opportunities, which has included a continued gradual and measured shift toward our Growth channel including used vehicle financings. 

The mortgage-finance team focuses on applicants with stronger credit profiles and with income streams to support repayments of the loan and operates under credit standards that consider and assess the value of the underlying real estate in accordance with prudent credit practices and regulatory requirements. Refer to the Mortgage Finance section of the MD&#38;A that follows for credit quality information about purchases and originations of consumer mortgages held-for-investment. We generally rely on appraisals conducted by licensed appraisers in conformance with the expectations and requirements of Fannie Mae and federal regulators. When appropriate, we require credit enhancements such as private mortgage insurance. We price each mortgage loan that we originate based on several factors, including the customer&#8217;s FICO&#174; Score, the LTV ratio, and the size of the loan. For bulk purchases, we only purchase loans from sellers with the financial wherewithal to support their representations and warranties and the experience to originate high-quality loans. 

Additionally, on October 1, 2019, we acquired Health Credit Services which we renamed Ally Lending, a digital payment provider that offers point-of-sale financing to consumers. This expansion into digital point-of-sale lending further broadens our product portfolio to unsecured consumer financing. As of December 31, 2020, the amortized cost of our finance receivables related to Ally Lending was $407 million. 

Within our commercial lending portfolios, Corporate Finance operations primarily provide senior secured leveraged cash flow and asset-based loans to mostly U.S.-based middle-market companies. Throughout 2020, we continued to prudently grow this portfolio with a disciplined and selective approach to credit quality, which has generally included the avoidance of covenant-light lending arrangements. This includes growth of our lender finance vertical launched in 2019, which provides senior secured revolving credit facilities to asset managers, collateralized by a portfolio of loans. Within our commercial automotive business, we continue to offer a variety of dealer-centric lending products that primarily relate to floorplan financing and term loans. These commercial products are an important aspect of our dealer relationships and offer a secured lending arrangement with strong collateral protections in the event of dealer default. The performance of our commercial credit portfolios continues to remain strong, as nonperforming finance receivables and loans decreased $54 million from December 31, 2019, to $161 million at December 31, 2020. During the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, our total net charge-offs within our commercial lending portfolio remained stable at $51 million and $49 million, respectively. Despite this level of net charge-offs, our total commercial net charge-off ratios represented 0.2% of average commercial receivables and loans for the year ended December 31, 2020. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further details. 

The U.S. economy has started to recover from shutdowns that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. After peaking at 14.7%, as adjusted, in April, the unemployment rate declined to 6.7% as of December 31, 2020. As a result of the economic disruption from COVID-19, sales of light motor vehicles fell to an annual pace of 8.7 million in April, a 49-year low, before rising to a 16.3 million annual pace as of December 31, 2020. Elevated unemployment may limit further increases in used vehicle values in 2021, despite the strengthening in values in 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

the second half of 2020. Additionally, used vehicle values may also be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including alternative transportation methods such as public transportation, vehicle sharing, and ride hailing. 

Discontinued Operations 

During 2013 and 2012, certain disposal groups met the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations. The remaining activity relates to previous discontinued operations for which we continue to have wind-down, legal, and minimal operational costs. For all periods presented, the operating results for these operations have been removed from continuing operations. The MD&#38;A has been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted. 

Primary Business Lines 

Dealer Financial Services, which includes our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance are our primary business lines. The following table summarizes the operating results excluding discontinued operations of each business line. Operating results for each of the business lines are more fully described in the MD&#38;A sections that follow. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020&#8211;2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019 &#8211; 2018 % change 

Total net revenue 

Dealer Financial Services 

Automotive Finance 

$ 4,488 &#160; $ 4,390 $ 4,038 2 9 Insurance 

1,376 &#160; 1,328 1,035 4 28 Mortgage Finance 

220 &#160; 193 186 14 4 Corporate Finance 344 &#160; 284 242 21 17 Corporate and Other 

258 &#160; 199 303 30 (34) 

Total 

$ 6,686 &#160; $ 6,394 $ 5,804 5 10 Income from continuing operations before income tax expense Dealer Financial Services 

Automotive Finance 

$ 1,285 &#160; $ 1,618 $ 1,368 (21) 18 Insurance 

284 &#160; 315 80 (10) n/m Mortgage Finance 

53 &#160; 40 45 33 (11) Corporate Finance 88 &#160; 153 144 (42) 6 Corporate and Other 

(296) (159) (15) (86) n/m 

Total 

$ 1,414 &#160; $ 1,967 $ 1,622 (28) 21 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Consolidated Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results excluding discontinued operations for the periods shown. Refer to the operating segment sections of the MD&#38;A that follows for a more complete discussion of operating results by business line. For a discussion of our fiscal 2019 results compared to fiscal 2018, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020&#8211;2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Total financing revenue and other interest income $ 8,797 &#160; $ 9,857 $ 9,052 (11) 9 Total interest expense 3,243 &#160; 4,243 3,637 24 (17) Net depreciation expense on operating lease assets 851 &#160; 981 1,025 13 4 Net financing revenue and other interest income 4,703 &#160; 4,633 4,390 2 6 Other revenue Insurance premiums and service revenue earned 1,103 &#160; 1,087 1,022 1 6 Gain on mortgage and automotive loans, net 110 &#160; 28 25 n/m 12 Loss on extinguishment of debt (102) (2) (1) n/m 100 Other gain on investments, net 307 &#160; 243 (50) 26 n/m Other income, net of losses 565 &#160; 405 418 40 (3) Total other revenue 1,983 &#160; 1,761 1,414 13 25 Total net revenue 6,686 &#160; 6,394 5,804 5 10 Provision for credit losses 1,439 &#160; 998 918 (44) (9) Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 1,376 &#160; 1,222 1,155 (13) (6) Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses 363 &#160; 321 295 (13) (9) Goodwill impairment 50 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; n/m &#8212; Other operating expenses 2,044 &#160; 1,886 1,814 (8) (4) Total noninterest expense 3,833 &#160; 3,429 3,264 (12) (5) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 1,414 &#160; 1,967 1,622 (28) 21 Income tax expense from continuing operations 328 &#160; 246 359 (33) 31 Net income from continuing operations $ 1,086 &#160; $ 1,721 $ 1,263 (37) 36 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

2020 Compared to 2019 

We earned net income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, results were unfavorably impacted by lower total financing revenue and other interest income driven by decreases in our commercial automotive revenue due to lower outstanding floorplan assets and lower benchmark interest rates, lower income from cash balances and investment securities, and higher prepayment activity within our Mortgage Finance operations. Results were also unfavorably impacted by higher provision for credit losses, driven by economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as higher noninterest expense. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income increased $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in net financing revenue and other interest income during the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was driven by lower market interest rates, which drove a decrease in our deposit rates, and our continued shift to more cost-efficient deposit funding. Our total deposit liabilities increased $16.3 billion to $137.0 billion as of December 31, 2020, as compared to December 31, 2019. This was partially offset by a decrease of $728 million in our commercial automotive financing revenue, primarily due to lower outstanding floorplan assets as a result of vehicle inventory declines that have resulted from lower automotive production levels due to COVID-19 and as a result of lower benchmark interest rates. 

The loss on extinguishment of debt increased $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized losses on the early repayments of FHLB borrowings of $99 million, as we elected to prepay and early terminate 25 FHLB advances with an aggregate principal balance of $4.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020, to more cost-effectively manage liquidity at Ally Bank. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Other gain on investments was $307 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $243 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in gain on investments for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by favorable equity markets conditions during the year. 

Other income, net of losses increased $160 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to $105 million of upward adjustments related to equity securities without a readily determinable fair value, driven primarily by an investment in one entity for which there was a subsequent funding round at a higher valuation during the year, resulting in an observable price change. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

The provision for credit losses was $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $998 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by reserve increases associated with the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, the provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased as a result of higher provisions for specific loan exposures within our Corporate Finance operations. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Noninterest expense increased $404 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was driven by increased expenses to support the growth of our consumer product suite, as we continue to make investments in our technology platform to enhance the customer experience and expand our digital capabilities and portfolio of products. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was also driven by an impairment charge of $50 million related to the goodwill at Ally Invest. The recognition of this impairment was the result of certain business developments that impacted the expected growth and timing of revenue at Ally Invest. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

We recognized total income tax expense from continuing operations of $328 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $246 million for the same period in 2019. The increase in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to a release of valuation allowance on foreign tax credit carryforwards during the second quarter of 2019, offset by the tax effects of a decrease in 2020 pretax earnings. The valuation allowance release was primarily driven by our capacity to engage in certain foreign securitization transactions and the market demand from investors related to these transactions, coupled with the anticipated timing of the forecasted expiration of certain foreign tax credit carryforwards. The valuation allowance release resulted in a significant variation in the customary relationship between pretax income and income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Dealer Financial Services 

Results for Dealer Financial Services are presented by reportable segment, which includes our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations. 

Automotive Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the operating results of our Automotive Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our other reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020&#8211;2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Consumer $ 4,931 &#160; $ 4,775 $ 4,287 3 11 Commercial 833 &#160; 1,561 1,516 (47) 3 Loans held-for-sale &#8212; &#160; &#8212; 3 &#8212; (100) Operating leases 1,435 &#160; 1,470 1,489 (2) (1) Other interest income 5 &#160; 8 7 (38) 14 Total financing revenue and other interest income 

7,204 &#160; 7,814 7,302 (8) 7 Interest expense 2,069 &#160; 2,692 2,508 23 (7) Net depreciation expense on operating lease assets (a) 851 &#160; 981 1,025 13 4 Net financing revenue and other interest income 4,284 &#160; 4,141 3,769 3 10 Other revenue Gain on automotive loans, net &#8212; &#160; 8 22 (100) (64) Other income 204 &#160; 241 247 (15) (2) Total other revenue 204 &#160; 249 269 (18) (7) Total net revenue 4,488 &#160; 4,390 4,038 2 9 Provision for credit losses 1,236 &#160; 962 920 (28) (5) Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 549 &#160; 524 505 (5) (4) Other operating expenses 1,418 &#160; 1,286 1,245 (10) (3) Total noninterest expense 1,967 &#160; 1,810 1,750 (9) (3) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 

$ 1,285 &#160; $ 1,618 $ 1,368 (21) 18 Total assets $ 104,794 &#160; $ 113,863 $ 117,304 (8) (3) ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes net remarketing gains of $127 million, $69 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the average balance and yield of the loan and operating lease portfolios of our Automotive Financing operations. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 2018 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Yield Average balance (a) Yield Average balance (a) Yield Finance receivables and loans, net (b) 

Consumer automotive (c) 

$ 72,805 &#160; 6.54 &#160; % $ 72,268 6.60 % $ 69,804 6.14 % Commercial 

Wholesale floorplan (d) 19,308 &#160; 3.45 &#160; 28,200 4.60 29,455 4.21 Other commercial automotive (e) 5,740 &#160; 4.21 &#160; 5,663 4.65 6,038 4.55 Investment in operating leases, net (f) 9,264 &#160; 6.30 &#160; 8,509 5.74 8,590 5.40 ##TABLE_END

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) Nonperforming finance receivables and loans are included in the average balances. For information on our accounting policies regarding nonperforming status, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(c) Includes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges, which is included within Corporate and Other. Excluding the impact of hedging activities, the yield was 6.77%, 6.61%, and 6.14% for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 

(d) Includes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges, which is included within Corporate and Other. Excluding the impact of hedging activities, the yield was 3.07%, 4.60%, and 4.21% for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 

(e) Consists primarily of automotive dealer term loans, including those to finance dealership land and buildings, and dealer fleet financing. 

(f) Yield includes gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles of $127 million, $69 million, and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Excluding these gains on sale, the yield was 4.93% for both the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, and 4.35% for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

2020 Compared to 2019 

Our Automotive Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the decrease was due primarily to higher provision for credit losses and noninterest expense, partially offset by higher net financing revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the higher provision for credit losses was primarily driven by reserve increases associated with macroeconomic deterioration from the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Consumer automotive loan financing revenue increased $156 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, higher average consumer assets and higher portfolio yields, excluding the unfavorable impact of hedges, contributed to the increase in revenue as a result of a continued focus on the used-vehicle portfolio primarily through franchised dealers and growth in application volume from our dealer network. Through these actions, we continue to optimize our origination mix and achieve greater portfolio diversification. 

Commercial loan financing revenue decreased $728 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower outstanding floorplan assets as a result of vehicle inventory declines that have resulted from lower automotive production levels due to COVID-19. The decrease was also due to lower yields resulting from lower average benchmark interest rates. 

Interest expense was $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower market interest rates, which drove a decrease in our deposit rates, and our continued shift to more cost-efficient deposit funding. The decrease was also due to lower funding costs due to lower asset levels. 

Other income decreased $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in late fee income, attributed to a temporary suppression of late fees as a result of the implementation of our new technology platform for our consumer automotive loans and operating leases. In addition, for customers who elected to defer their payments as part of our COVID-19 relief efforts, late fees were not incurred during the deferral period, as further described in the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A. 

Total net operating lease revenue increased $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. We recognized remarketing gains of $127 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $69 million in 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the increase was primarily driven by favorable performance and mix in our outstanding lease portfolio, new vehicle supply constraints and an increase in demand for used vehicles during the second half of the year, and asset growth. Refer to the Operating Lease Residual Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion. 

The provision for credit losses was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $962 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the increases in provision expense in our consumer and commercial automotive portfolios were primarily driven by the reserve increases associated with macroeconomic deterioration from the COVID-19 pandemic, which were partially offset by lower net charge-offs in the consumer automotive portfolio and by reserve decreases in the commercial automotive portfolio driven by $9.3 billion of lower assets primarily within our floorplan balances. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

for further discussion. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Other operating expenses were $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $1.3 billion in 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the higher operating expense is due to higher legal reserves and costs associated with the implementation of our new technology platform during the first quarter of 2020 for our consumer automotive loans and operating leases. 

Automotive Financing Volume 

Our Automotive Finance operations provide automotive financing services to consumers and automotive dealers. For consumers, we provide retail financing and leasing for new and used vehicles, and through our commercial automotive financing operations, we fund dealer purchases of new and used vehicles through wholesale floorplan financing and provide dealer term and revolving loans and automotive fleet financing. 

Acquisition and Underwriting 

Our consumer underwriting process is focused on multidimensional risk factors and data driven risk-adjusted probabilities that are continuously monitored and routinely updated. Each application is placed into an analytical category based on specific aspects of the applicant&#8217;s credit profile and loan structure. We then evaluate the application by applying a proprietary credit scoring algorithm tailored to its applicable category. Inputs into this algorithm include, but are not limited to, proprietary scores and deal structure variables such as LTV, new or used vehicle collateral, and term of financing. The output of the algorithm is used to sort applications into various credit tiers (S, A, B, C, D, and E). Credit tiers help determine our primary indication of credit quality and pricing, and are also communicated to the dealer that submitted the application. This process is built on long established credit risk fundamentals to determine both the applicant&#8217;s ability and willingness to repay. While advances in excess of 100% of the vehicle collateral value at loan origination&#8212;notwithstanding cash down and vehicle trade in value&#8212;are typical in the industry (primarily due to additional costs such as mechanical warranty contracts, taxes, license, and title fees), our pricing, risk, and underwriting processes are rooted in statistical analysis to manage this risk. 

Our underwriting process uses a combination of automated strategies and manual evaluation by an experienced team of dedicated underwriters. Continued advancements in our data-driven risk assessment process have allowed us to methodically increase our use of automated credit decisioning in recent years. This increase in automated decisioning has enhanced the buying experience for our dealer and consumer customers through improved response times, and more consistent credit decisions. Underwriting is also governed by our credit policies, which set forth guidelines such as acceptable transaction parameters and verification requirements. For higher-risk approved transactions, these guidelines require verification of details such as applicant income and employment through documentation provided by the applicant or other data sources. 

Underwriters have a limited ability to approve exceptions to the guidelines in our credit policies. For example, an exception may be approved to allow a term or a ratio of payment-to-income, debt-to-income, or LTV greater than that in the guidelines. Exceptions must be approved by underwriters with appropriate approval authority and generally are based on compensating factors. We monitor exceptions with the goal of limiting them to a small portion of approved applications and originated loans, and rarely permit more than a single exception to avoid layered risk. 

Consumer Automotive Financing 

New- and used-vehicle consumer financing through dealerships takes one of two forms: retail installment sales contracts (retail contracts) and operating lease contracts. We purchase retail contracts for new and used vehicles and operating lease contracts from dealers after those contracts are executed by the dealers and the consumers. Our consumer automotive financing operations generate revenue primarily through finance charges on retail contracts and rental payments on operating lease contracts. In connection with operating lease contracts, we recognize depreciation expense on the vehicle over the operating lease contract period and we may also recognize a gain or loss on the remarketing of the vehicle at the end of the lease. 

The amount we pay a dealer for a retail contract is based on the rate of finance charge agreed by the dealer and customer, the negotiated purchase price of the vehicle, any other products such as service contracts, less any vehicle trade-in value, any down payment from the consumer, and any available automotive manufacturer incentives. Under the retail contract, the consumer is obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the purchase price of the vehicle (less any trade-in or down payment) plus finance charges at a rate negotiated between the consumer and the dealer. In addition, the consumer is responsible for charges related to past-due payments. Consistent with industry practice, when we purchase the retail contract, we pay the dealer at a rate discounted below the rate agreed by the dealer and the consumer (generally described in the industry as the &#8220;buy rate&#8221;). Our agreements with dealers limit the amount of the discount that we will accept. Although we do not own the vehicles that we finance through retail contracts, our agreements require that we hold a perfected security interest in those vehicles. 

With respect to consumer leasing, we purchase operating lease contracts and the associated vehicles from dealerships after those contracts are executed by the dealers and the consumers. The amount we pay a dealer for an operating lease contract is based on the negotiated price for the vehicle, less any vehicle trade-in, any down payment from the consumer, and any available automotive manufacturer incentives. Under an operating lease, the consumer is obligated to make payments in amounts equal to the amount by which the negotiated purchase price of the vehicle (less any trade-in value, down payment, or any available manufacturer incentives) exceeds the contract residual value (including residual support) of the vehicle at lease termination, plus operating lease rental charges. The consumer is also generally 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

responsible for charges related to past-due payments, excess mileage, excessive wear and tear, and certain disposal fees where applicable. At contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as vehicle age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. 

Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on then-current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense, if appropriate, over the remaining life of the contract. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. 

Our standard consumer operating lease contract, SmartLease, requires a monthly payment by the consumer. We also offer an alternative leasing plan, SmartLease Plus, which requires one up-front payment of all operating lease amounts at the time the consumer takes possession of the vehicle. 

Our standard consumer lease contracts are operating leases; therefore, credit losses on the operating lease portfolio are not as significant as losses on retail contracts because lease credit losses are primarily limited to past-due payments and assessed fees. Since some of these fees are not assessed until the vehicle is returned, these losses on the operating lease portfolio are correlated with lease termination volume. Operating lease accounts over 30 days past due represented 1.09% and 1.34% of the portfolio at December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. 

With respect to all financed vehicles, whether subject to a retail contract or an operating lease contract, we require that property damage insurance be obtained by the consumer. In addition, for operating lease contracts, we require that bodily injury, collision, and comprehensive insurance be obtained by the consumer. 

Our portfolio yield for consumer automotive loans, excluding the impact of hedging activities, increased approximately 16 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2020, relative to the year ended December 31, 2019. We set our buy rates using a granular, risk-based methodology factoring in several variables including interest costs, projected net average annualized loss rates at the time of origination, anticipated operating costs, and targeted return on equity. Our underwriting capabilities allow us to manage our risk tolerance levels to quickly react to major changes in the economy, including the current pandemic environment. Over the past several years, we have continued to focus on optimizing pricing relative to market interest rates as well as portfolio diversification and the used-vehicle segment, primarily through franchised dealers, which has contributed to higher yields on our consumer automotive loan portfolio. Commensurate with this shift in origination mix, we continue to maintain consistent, disciplined underwriting within our new and used consumer automotive loan originations. The carrying value of our nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses was $8.6 billion, or approximately 11.7%, of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2020, as compared to $8.4 billion, or approximately 11.6% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2019. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents retail loan originations by credit tier and product type. 

##TABLE_START Used retail New retail Credit Tier (a) Volume 

($ in billions) 

% Share of volume Average FICO&#174; Volume 

($ in billions) 

% Share of volume Average FICO&#174; Year ended December 31, 2020 S $ 4.6 &#160; 24 &#160; 736 &#160; $ 4.9 &#160; 44 &#160; 736 &#160; A 9.2 &#160; 48 &#160; 682 &#160; 4.8 &#160; 43 &#160; 678 &#160; B 4.1 &#160; 21 &#160; 646 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 11 &#160; 646 &#160; C 1.0 &#160; 5 &#160; 609 &#160; 0.2 &#160; 2 &#160; 611 &#160; D 0.3 &#160; 1 &#160; 566 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 593 &#160; E 0.1 &#160; 1 &#160; 542 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 574 &#160; Total retail originations $ 19.3 &#160; 100 &#160; 682 &#160; $ 11.2 &#160; 100 &#160; 698 &#160; Year ended December 31, 2019 S $ 4.9 26 739 $ 6.0 46 744 A 8.0 42 678 4.9 38 676 B 4.6 24 645 1.6 13 643 C 1.4 7 613 0.4 3 613 D 0.1 1 568 &#8212; &#8212; 569 Total retail originations $ 19.0 100 681 $ 12.9 100 700 Year ended December 31, 2018 S $ 5.0 27 739 $ 6.2 47 746 A 7.8 43 675 4.8 37 676 B 4.3 24 644 1.8 14 645 C 1.1 6 611 0.3 2 613 Total retail originations $ 18.2 100 682 $ 13.1 100 701 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents Ally&#8217;s internal credit score, incorporating numerous borrower and structure attributes including: severity and aging of delinquency; number of credit inquiries; LTV ratio; and payment-to-income ratio. We periodically update our underwriting scorecard, which can have an impact on our credit tier scoring. 

The following table presents the percentage of total retail loan originations, in dollars, by the loan term in months. 

##TABLE_START Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 0&#8211;71 19 &#160; % 20 % 20 % 72&#8211;75 64 &#160; 65 67 76 + 17 &#160; 15 13 Total retail originations (a) 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes RV loans. RV lending was discontinued in 2018. 

Retail originations with a term of 76 months or more represented 17% of total retail originations for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 15% for the year ended December 31, 2019, and 13% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Substantially all of the loans originated with a term of 76 months or more during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, were considered to be prime and in credit tiers S, A, or B. We define prime consumer automotive loans primarily as those loans with a FICO&#174; Score (or an equivalent score) at origination of 620 or greater. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the percentage of total outstanding retail loans by origination year. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Pre-2016 3 &#160; % 7 % 16 % 2016 5 &#160; 10 18 2017 10 &#160; 17 27 2018 18 &#160; 27 39 2019 27 &#160; 39 &#8212; 2020 37 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; Total 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

The 2020, 2019, and 2018 vintages compose 82% of the overall retail portfolio as of December 31, 2020, and have higher average buy rates than older vintages. 

The following tables present the total retail loan and operating lease origination dollars and percentage mix by product type and by channel. 

##TABLE_START Consumer automotive financing originations % Share of Ally originations 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Used retail $ 19,312 &#160; $ 18,968 $ 18,239 55 &#160; 52 52 New retail standard 11,075 &#160; 12,717 12,752 32 &#160; 35 36 Lease 4,618 &#160; 4,371 4,058 13 &#160; 12 11 New retail subvented 110 &#160; 221 330 &#8212; &#160; 1 1 Total consumer automotive financing originations (a) $ 35,115 &#160; $ 36,277 $ 35,379 100 &#160; 100 100 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes CSG originations of $3.8 billion, $4.0 billion, and $3.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, and RV originations of $238 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

##TABLE_START Consumer automotive financing originations % Share of Ally originations 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 Growth channel $ 17,460 &#160; $ 17,195 $ 16,190 50 &#160; 47 46 Chrysler dealers 9,745 &#160; 9,692 9,511 28 &#160; 27 27 GM dealers 7,910 &#160; 9,390 9,678 22 &#160; 26 27 Total consumer automotive financing originations $ 35,115 &#160; $ 36,277 $ 35,379 100 &#160; 100 100 ##TABLE_END

Total consumer automotive loan and operating lease originations decreased $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to prior year, was primarily due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the temporary shutdown or restriction of front end operations of automotive dealers during the second quarter of 2020. These restrictions, along with the industry-wide halt of new vehicle production, drove a significant decrease in industry automotive light vehicle sales. 

Our lending and finance receivable balances have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Through the second quarter of 2020, as governments acted to temporarily close or restrict the operations of businesses, including automotive dealers, and as many consumers and businesses changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to sharply restrain commercial and social interactions, we experienced significant reductions in our consumer automotive loan applications. As consumers and businesses adapted to changed conditions and many governmental authorities relaxed their restrictions later in the second quarter, we began to observe a recovery in loan application volume and resulting booked originations. In the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, we decisioned 3.1 million, 3.2 million, and 2.8 million of consumer automotive financing applications, respectively, compared to 3.3 million, 3.2 million, and 2.9 million in the same periods of 2019. These applications resulted in funded balances of approximately $7.2 billion, $9.8 billion, and $9.1 billion, in the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively, as compared to $9.7 billion, $9.3 billion, and $8.1 billion in the same periods of 2019. 

We have included origination metrics by loan term and FICO&#174; Score within this MD&#38;A. However, we employ our own risk evaluation, including proprietary risk models, in evaluating credit risk, as described in the section above titled Acquisition and Underwriting. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the percentage of retail loan and operating lease originations, in dollars, by FICO&#174; Score and product type. 

##TABLE_START Used retail New retail Lease Year ended December 31, 2020 740 + 19 &#160; % 21 &#160; % 46 &#160; % 660&#8211;739 40 &#160; 38 &#160; 37 &#160; 620&#8211;659 24 &#160; 20 &#160; 12 &#160; 540&#8211;619 12 &#160; 6 &#160; 4 &#160; &#60; 540 2 &#160; 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Unscored (a) 3 &#160; 14 &#160; 1 &#160; Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % Year ended December 31, 2019 740 + 18 % 24 % 47 % 660&#8211;739 39 34 35 620&#8211;659 25 19 11 540&#8211;619 13 7 5 &#60; 540 1 1 &#8212; Unscored (a) 4 15 2 Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 % 100 % 100 % Year ended December 31, 2018 740 + 19 % 25 % 49 % 660&#8211;739 39 34 34 620&#8211;659 27 21 10 540&#8211;619 12 6 5 &#60; 540 1 1 &#8212; Unscored (a) 2 13 2 Total consumer automotive financing originations 100 % 100 % 100 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Unscored are primarily CSG contracts with business entities that have no FICO&#174; Score. 

Originations with a FICO&#174; Score of less than 620 (considered nonprime) represented 10% of total consumer loan and operating lease originations for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 11% for the year ended December 31, 2019, and 10% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Consumer loans and operating leases with FICO&#174; Scores of less than 540 continued to compose only 1% of total originations for the year ended December 31, 2020. Nonprime applications that are not automatically declined by our proprietary credit-scoring models for risk reasons are manually reviewed and decisioned by an experienced underwriting team. Nonprime applications are subject to more stringent underwriting criteria (for example, minimum payment-to-income ratio and vehicle mileage, and maximum amount financed), and our nonprime loan portfolio generally does not include any loans with a term of 76 months or more. For discussion of our credit-risk-management practices and performance, refer to the section titled Risk Management . 

Manufacturer Marketing Incentives 

Automotive manufacturers may elect to sponsor incentive programs on retail contracts and operating leases by subsidizing finance rates below market rates. These marketing incentives are also referred to as rate support or subvention. When an automotive manufacturer subsidizes the finance rate, we are compensated at contract inception for the present value of the difference between the manufacturer-supported customer rate and our standard rate. For a retail contract, we defer and recognize this amount as a yield adjustment over the life of the contract. For an operating lease contract, this payment reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. 

Automotive manufacturers may also elect to sponsor incentives, referred to as residual support, on operating leases. When an automotive manufacturer provides residual support, we receive payment at contract inception that increases the contractual operating lease residual value resulting in a lower operating lease payment from the customer. The payment received from the automotive manufacturer reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. Other operating lease incentive programs sponsored by automotive manufacturers may be made at contract inception indirectly through dealers, which also reduces our cost basis in the underlying operating lease asset. 

Under what the automotive finance industry refers to as &#8220;pull-ahead programs,&#8221; consumers may be encouraged by the manufacturer to terminate operating leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new vehicle. As part of these programs, we waive all or a portion of the customer&#8217;s remaining payment obligation. Under most programs, the automotive manufacturer compensates us for a portion of the 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

foregone revenue from the waived payments. This compensation may be partially offset to the extent that our remarketing sales proceeds are higher than otherwise would be realized if the vehicle had been remarketed upon contract maturity. 

Servicing 

We have historically serviced all retail contracts and operating leases we originated. However, our expansion into direct-to-consumer lending and other relationships have resulted in the employment of third-party servicers for a small portion of the portfolio. On occasion, we have sold a portion of the retail contracts we originated through whole-loan sales and securitizations, but generally retained the right to service and earn a servicing fee for our servicing functions. 

Servicing activities consist largely of collecting and processing customer payments, responding to customer concerns and inquiries, processing customer requests (including those for payoff quotes, total-loss handling, and payment modifications), maintaining a perfected security interest in the financed vehicle, engaging in collections activity, and disposing of off-lease and repossessed vehicles. Servicing activities are generally consistent across our Automotive Finance operations; however, certain practices may be influenced by state laws. 

Our customers have the option to receive monthly billing statements and remit payment by mail or through electronic fund transfers, or to establish online web-based account administration through Ally Auto Online Services. Customer payments are processed by regional third-party processing centers that electronically transfer payment information to customers&#8217; accounts. 

Collections activity includes initiating contact with customers who fail to comply with the terms of the retail contract or operating lease agreement by sending reminder notices or contacting customers via various channels when an account becomes 3 to 7 days past due. The type of collection treatment and level of intensity increases as the account becomes more delinquent. The nature and timing of these activities depend on the repayment risk of the account. 

During the collections process, we may offer a payment extension to a customer experiencing temporary financial difficulty. A payment extension enables the customer to delay monthly payments for 30, 60, or 90 days. Extensions granted to a customer typically do not exceed 90 days in the aggregate during any 12-month period or 180 days in aggregate over the life of the contract. To support our customers from the impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented a broad relief program, as further described in the section titled Risk Management of this MD&#38;A. During the extension period, finance charges continue to accrue. If the customer&#8217;s financial difficulty is not temporary but we believe the customer is willing and able to repay their loan at a lower payment amount, we may offer to modify the remaining obligation, extending the term and lowering the scheduled monthly payment. In those cases, the outstanding balance generally remains unchanged. The use of extensions and modifications helps us mitigate financial loss. Extensions may assist in cases where we believe the customer will recover from short-term financial difficulty and resume regularly scheduled payments. Modifications may also be utilized in cases where we believe customers can fulfill the obligation with lower payments over a longer period. Before offering an extension or modification, we evaluate and take into account the capacity of the customer to meet the revised payment terms. Excluding extensions provided to borrowers that received COVID-19 related relief, we generally do not consider extensions that fall within our policy guidelines to represent more than an insignificant delay in payment, and therefore, they are not considered a TDR. Although the granting of an extension could delay the eventual charge-off of an account, typically we are able to repossess and sell the related collateral, thereby mitigating the loss. At December 31, 2020, 30.9% of the total amount outstanding in the servicing portfolio had been granted an extension or was rewritten, compared to 10.6% at December 31, 2019, largely due to the impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and our related relief-programs to support our customers. 

Subject to legal considerations, we generally begin repossession activity once an account is at least 90 days past due. Repossession may occur earlier if we determine the customer is unwilling to pay, the vehicle is in danger of being damaged or hidden, or the customer voluntarily surrenders the vehicle. Approved third-party repossession vendors handle the repossession activity. Generally, after repossession, the customer is given a period of time to redeem the vehicle or reinstate the contract by paying off the account or bringing the account current, respectively. If the vehicle is not redeemed or the contract is not reinstated, the vehicle is sold at auction. Generally, the proceeds do not cover the unpaid balance, including unpaid earned finance charges and allowable expenses, and the resulting deficiency is charged-off. Asset recovery centers pursue collections on accounts that have been charged-off, including those accounts where the vehicle was repossessed, and skip accounts where the vehicle cannot be located. 

Our total consumer automotive serviced portfolio was $80.2 billion and $80.6 billion at December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively, compared to our consumer automotive on-balance-sheet serviced portfolio of $80.2 billion and $80.0 billion. 

Remarketing and Sales of Leased Vehicles 

When we acquire an operating lease, we assume ownership of the vehicle from the dealer. Neither the consumer nor the dealer is responsible for the value of the vehicle at the time of lease termination. When vehicles are not purchased by customers or the receiving dealer at scheduled lease termination, the vehicle is returned to us for remarketing. We generally bear the risk of loss to the extent the value of a leased vehicle upon remarketing is below the expected residual value. Our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and the proceeds realized from vehicle sales. Our methods of vehicle sales at lease termination primarily include the following: 

&#8226; Sale to dealer &#8212; After the lessee declines an option to purchase the off-lease vehicle, the dealer who accepts it has the opportunity to purchase it directly from us at a price we define. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; Internet auctions &#8212; Once the lessee and the dealer decline to purchase the off-lease vehicle, we offer it to dealers and other third parties through our proprietary internet site (SmartAuction). Through SmartAuction, we seek to maximize the net sales proceeds from an off-lease vehicle by reducing the time between vehicle return and ultimate disposition, reducing holding costs, and broadening the number of prospective buyers. We use SmartAuction for our own vehicles and make it available for third-party use. We earn a service fee for every third-party vehicle sold through SmartAuction, which includes the cost of ClearGuard coverage, our protection product designed to assist in minimizing the risk to dealers of arbitration claims for eligible vehicles. In 2020, approximately 258,000 vehicles were sold through SmartAuction. 

&#8226; Physical auctions &#8212; We dispose of an off-lease vehicle not purchased at termination by the lessee or dealer or sold on SmartAuction through traditional third-party, physical auctions. We are responsible for handling decisions at the auction including arranging for inspections, authorizing repairs and reconditioning, and determining whether bids received at auction should be accepted. 

We employ an internal team, including statisticians, to manage our analysis of projected used vehicle values and residual risk. This team aids in the pricing of new operating leases, managing the disposal process including vehicle concentration risk, geographic optimization of vehicles to maximize gains, disposal platform (internet vs. physical), and evaluating our residual risk on a real-time basis. This team tracks market movements of used vehicles using data down to the VIN level including trim and options, vehicle age, mileage, and seasonality factors that we feel are more relevant than other published indices (for example, Manheim, NADA). This analysis includes vehicles sold on our SmartAuction platform, as well as vehicles sold through Manheim, ADESA, and over 200 independent physical auction sites. We believe this analysis gives us a competitive advantage over our peers. 

Commercial Automotive Financing 

Automotive Wholesale Dealer Financing 

One of the most important aspects of our dealer relationships is providing wholesale floorplan financing for new- and used-vehicle inventories at dealerships. Wholesale floorplan financing, including syndicated loan arrangements, represents the largest portion of our commercial automotive financing business and is the primary source of funding for dealers&#8217; purchases of new and used vehicles. 

Wholesale floorplan financing is generally extended in the form of lines of credit to individual dealers. These lines of credit are secured by the vehicles financed and all other vehicle inventory, which provide strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral (for example, blanket lien over all dealership assets) or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are generally obtained to further mitigate credit risk. Furthermore, in some cases, we may benefit from situations where an automotive manufacturer repurchases vehicles. These repurchases may serve as an additional layer of protection in the event of repossession of dealership new-vehicle inventory or dealership franchise termination. The amount we advance to dealers for a new vehicle is equal to 100% of the manufacturer&#8217;s wholesale invoice price. The amount we advance to dealers for a used vehicle is typically 90&#8211;100% of the dealer&#8217;s cost of acquiring it. Interest on wholesale floorplan financing is generally payable monthly. The majority of wholesale floorplan financing is structured to yield interest at a floating rate indexed to LIBOR or the Prime Rate. We have established an enterprise-wide LIBOR transition program to manage the discontinuance of LIBOR. Refer to the section titled LIBOR Transition within this MD&#38;A for further details. The rate for a particular dealer is based on, among other things, competitive factors, the size of the account, and the dealer&#8217;s creditworthiness. Additionally, under our Ally Dealer Rewards Program, dealers benefit in certain circumstances from wholesale-floorplan-financing incentives, which we pay and account for as a reduction to interest income in the period they are earned. 

Under our wholesale-floorplan-financing agreement, a dealership is generally required to pay the principal amount financed for a vehicle within a specified number of days following the dealership&#8217;s sale or lease of the vehicle. The agreement also affords us the right to demand payment of all amounts owed under the wholesale credit line at any time. We, however, generally make this demand only if we terminate the credit line, the dealer defaults, or a risk-based reason exists to do so. 

Commercial Wholesale Financing Volume 

The following table presents the percentage of average balance of our commercial wholesale floorplan finance receivables, in dollars, by product type and by channel. 

##TABLE_START Average balance 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 GM new vehicles 33 &#160; % 40 % 42 % Chrysler new vehicles 33 &#160; 33 31 Growth new vehicles 16 &#160; 13 14 Used vehicles 18 &#160; 14 13 Total 100 &#160; % 100 % 100 % Total commercial wholesale finance receivables $ 19,308 &#160; $ 28,200 $ 29,455 ##TABLE_END

Average commercial wholesale financing receivables outstanding decreased $8.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower dealer inventory levels, driven by lower automotive production levels due to 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

COVID-19. The declines were also impacted by a reduction in the number of GM dealer relationships due to the competitive environment across the automotive lending market. Dealer inventory levels are dependent on a number of factors, including manufacturer production schedules and vehicle mix, sales incentives, and industry sales. Manufacturer production and corresponding dealer stock levels, as well as dealer penetration levels, may continue to influence our future wholesale balances. While manufacturer production generally resumed later in the second quarter of 2020, it is not currently clear what impacts the pandemic may have on future production levels and how that may ultimately impact new vehicle sales, commercial floorplan receivables and the overall health of our dealer customers. 

Other Commercial Automotive Financing 

We also provide other forms of commercial financing for the automotive industry including automotive dealer term and revolving loans and automotive fleet financing. Automotive dealer term and revolving loans are loans that we make to dealers to finance other aspects of the dealership business, including acquisitions. These loans are usually secured by real estate or other dealership assets and are typically personally guaranteed by the individual owners of the dealership. Additionally, these loans generally include cross-collateral and cross-default provisions. Automotive fleet financing credit lines may be obtained by dealers, their affiliates, and other independent companies that are used to purchase vehicles, which they lease or rent to others. The average balances of other commercial automotive loans increased $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, to an average of $5.7 billion. 

Servicing and Monitoring 

We service all of the wholesale credit lines in our portfolio and the wholesale automotive finance receivables that we have securitized. A statement setting forth billing and account information is distributed on a monthly basis to each dealer. Interest and other nonprincipal charges are billed in arrears and are required to be paid immediately upon receipt of the monthly billing statement. Generally, dealers remit payments to us through ACH transactions initiated by the dealer through a secure web application. 

We manage risk related to wholesale floorplan financing by assessing dealership borrowers using a proprietary model based on various factors, including their capital sufficiency, operating performance, and credit and payment history. This model assigns dealership borrowers a risk rating that affects the amount of the line of credit and the ongoing risk management of the account. We monitor the level of borrowing under each dealer&#8217;s credit line daily. We may adjust the dealer&#8217;s credit line if warranted, based on the dealership&#8217;s vehicle sales rate, and temporarily suspend the granting of additional credit, or take other actions following evaluation and analysis of the dealer&#8217;s financial condition. 

We periodically inspect and verify the existence of dealer vehicle inventories. The timing of these collateral audits varies, and no advance notice is given to the dealer. Among other things, audits are intended to assess dealer compliance with the financing agreement and confirm the status of our collateral. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Insurance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the operating results of our Insurance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our other reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020-2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Insurance premiums and other income Insurance premiums and service revenue earned $ 1,103 &#160; $ 1,087 $ 1,022 1 6 Interest and dividends on investment securities, cash and cash equivalents, and other earning assets, net (a) 42 &#160; 54 54 (22) &#8212; Other gain (loss) on investments, net (b) 220 &#160; 175 (51) 26 n/m Other income 11 &#160; 12 10 (8) 20 Total insurance premiums and other income 1,376 &#160; 1,328 1,035 4 28 Expense Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses 363 &#160; 321 295 (13) (9) Acquisition and underwriting expense Compensation and benefits expense 82 &#160; 80 75 (3) (7) Insurance commissions expense 517 &#160; 475 440 (9) (8) Other expenses 130 &#160; 137 145 5 6 Total acquisition and underwriting expense 729 &#160; 692 660 (5) (5) Total expense 1,092 &#160; 1,013 955 (8) (6) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense $ 284 &#160; $ 315 $ 80 (10) n/m Total assets $ 9,137 &#160; $ 8,547 $ 7,734 7 11 Insurance premiums and service revenue written 

$ 1,229 &#160; $ 1,310 $ 1,174 (6) 12 Combined ratio (c) 98.0 &#160; % 92.2 % 92.6 % ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Includes interest expense of $80 million, $79 million, and $67 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 

(b) Includes net unrealized gains on equity securities of $31 million and $88 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively, and net unrealized losses of $112 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

(c) Management uses a combined ratio as a primary measure of underwriting profitability. Underwriting profitability is indicated by a combined ratio under 100% and is calculated as the sum of all incurred losses and expenses (excluding interest and income tax expense) divided by the total of premiums and service revenues earned and other income. 

2020 Compared to 2019 

Our Insurance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $284 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by a $42 million increase in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses primarily driven by higher weather-related losses within our P&#38;C business, and lower earned premiums from our P&#38;C business driven by lower dealer vehicle inventory levels. The decline was partially offset by a $45 million increase in net gains on investments and higher earned premiums from our F&#38;I business. 

Insurance premiums and service revenue earned was $1.1 billion for both the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2020, included $50 million in higher earned revenue from our F&#38;I products, as revenue is earned over the life of the contracts on a basis proportionate to the anticipated loss pattern. The increase was partially offset by $35 million in lower earned premiums from our P&#38;C products, driven by lower dealer vehicle inventory levels. 

Other gains on investments, net was $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $175 million for the same period in 2019. The increase was driven by favorable performance of our investment securities portfolio, which included higher realized capital gains on debt and equity securities during a period of elevated market volatility. 

Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses totaled $363 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $321 million for the same period in 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by higher weather-related losses. Total acquisition and underwriting expense increased $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. This increase was primarily due to an increase in insurance commissions expense, commensurate with higher earned premiums from our F&#38;I products, which was partially offset by lower operating expenses driven primarily by lower travel and entertainment expenses, as well as 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

lower advertising and marketing expenses. Higher weather losses and lower earned premiums from our vehicle inventory insurance drove an increase in the combined ratio to 98.0% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 92.2% for the year ended December 31, 2019. In April 2020, we renewed our annual excess of loss reinsurance agreement and continue to utilize this coverage for our vehicle inventory insurance to manage our risk of weather-related loss. 

Premium and Service Revenue Written 

The following table summarizes premium and service revenue written by product, net of premiums ceded to reinsurers. VSC and GAP revenue are earned over the life of the service contract on a basis proportionate to the anticipated loss pattern. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this revenue stream. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Finance and insurance products Vehicle service contracts $ 850 &#160; $ 901 $ 856 Guaranteed asset protection and other finance and insurance products (a) 137 &#160; 121 101 Total finance and insurance products 987 &#160; 1,022 957 Property and casualty insurance (b) 242 &#160; 288 217 

Total 

$ 1,229 &#160; $ 1,310 $ 1,174 ##TABLE_END

(a) Other products include VMCs, ClearGuard, and other ancillary products. 

(b) P&#38;C insurance include vehicle inventory insurance and dealer ancillary products. 

Insurance premiums and service revenue written was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $1.3 billion for the same period in 2019. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to lower F&#38;I volume and lower dealer vehicle inventory levels from our P&#38;C products due to the economic impact of COVID-19, as further described in the section titled Significant Business Developments Related to COVID-19 within the MD&#38;A. While this significantly reduced our F&#38;I written premiums in late March and early in the second quarter, we have experienced gradual recoveries since that time. 

Cash and Investments 

A significant aspect of our Insurance operations is the investment of proceeds from premiums and other revenue sources. We use these investments to satisfy our obligations related to future claims at the time these claims are settled. Our Insurance operations have an Investment Committee, which develops guidelines and strategies for these investments. The guidelines established by this committee reflect our risk appetite, liquidity requirements, regulatory requirements, and rating agency considerations, among other factors. 

The following table summarizes the composition of our Insurance operations cash and investment portfolio at fair value. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Cash and cash equivalents Noninterest-bearing cash $ 189 &#160; $ 95 Interest-bearing cash 579 &#160; 1,230 Total cash and cash equivalents 768 &#160; 1,325 Equity securities 1,064 &#160; 608 Available-for-sale securities Debt securities U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 56 &#160; 528 U.S. States and political subdivisions 680 &#160; 530 Foreign government 176 &#160; 186 Agency mortgage-backed residential 719 &#160; 1,132 Mortgage-backed residential 44 &#160; 70 Corporate debt 1,914 &#160; 1,363 Total available-for-sale securities 3,589 &#160; 3,809 Total cash, cash equivalents, and securities $ 5,421 &#160; $ 5,742 ##TABLE_END

In addition to these cash and investment securities, in the fourth quarter of 2020, the Insurance segment entered into an interest-bearing intercompany arrangement with the Corporate segment, callable on demand. At December 31, 2020, the intercompany loan balance due to Insurance was $830 million, and $1 million in interest income was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Mortgage Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the activities of our Mortgage Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020-2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Total financing revenue and other interest income $ 487 &#160; $ 577 $ 483 (16) 19 Interest expense 369 &#160; 406 304 9 (34) Net financing revenue and other interest income 118 &#160; 171 179 (31) (4) Gain on mortgage loans, net 93 &#160; 20 5 n/m n/m Other income, net of losses 9 &#160; 2 2 n/m &#8212; Total other revenue 102 &#160; 22 7 n/m n/m Total net revenue 220 &#160; 193 186 14 4 Provision for credit losses 7 &#160; 5 1 (40) n/m Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 22 &#160; 31 32 29 3 Other operating expenses 138 &#160; 117 108 (18) (8) Total noninterest expense 160 &#160; 148 140 (8) (6) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 

$ 53 &#160; $ 40 $ 45 33 (11) Total assets $ 14,889 &#160; $ 16,279 $ 15,211 (9) 7 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

2020 Compared to 2019 

Our Mortgage Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to higher net gains on the sale of mortgage loans, which was partially offset by lower net financing revenue and other interest income, which was driven by higher prepayment activity, an increase in noninterest expense, and higher provision for credit losses. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income was $118 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in net financing revenue and other interest income for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to accelerated premium amortization on purchased loans due to higher prepayment activity, driven by a lower interest rate environment. Premium amortization of purchased loans was $123 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we purchased $4.2 billion of mortgage loans that were originated by third parties and originated $2.0 billion of mortgage loans held-for-investment, compared to $3.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net, was $93 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $20 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was driven by higher direct-to-consumer mortgage originations and the subsequent sale of these loans to our fulfillment provider during the year ended December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we originated $2.7 billion of loans held-for-sale, compared to $738 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. 

The provision for credit losses increased $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in provision expense was primarily driven by reserve increases associated with broad macroeconomic impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and higher net charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Total noninterest expense was $160 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $148 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by continued growth in direct-to-consumer mortgage originations. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the total UPB of purchases and originations of consumer mortgages held-for-investment, by FICO&#174; Score at the time of acquisition. 

##TABLE_START FICO&#174; Score Volume 

($ in millions) 

% Share of volume Year ended December 31, 2020 740 + $ 5,151 &#160; 83 &#160; 720&#8211;739 580 &#160; 9 &#160; 700&#8211;719 362 &#160; 6 &#160; 680&#8211;699 67 &#160; 1 &#160; 660&#8211;679 27 &#160; 1 &#160; &#60; 660 20 &#160; &#8212; &#160; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 6,207 &#160; 100 &#160; Year ended December 31, 2019 740 + $ 4,462 83 720&#8211;739 520 10 700&#8211;719 397 7 680&#8211;699 27 &#8212; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 5,406 100 Year ended December 31, 2018 740 + $ 3,861 80 720&#8211;739 520 11 700&#8211;719 391 8 680&#8211;699 74 1 660&#8211;679 1 &#8212; Total consumer mortgage financing volume $ 4,847 100 ##TABLE_END

The following table presents the net UPB, net UPB as a percentage of total, WAC, premium net of discounts, LTV, and FICO&#174; Scores for the products in our Mortgage Finance held-for-investment loan portfolio. 

##TABLE_START Product Net UPB (a) ($ in millions) 

% of total net UPB WAC Net premium ($ in millions) 

Average refreshed LTV (b) Average refreshed FICO&#174; (c) December 31, 2020 Adjustable-rate $ 927 &#160; 6 &#160; 3.31 &#160; % $ 11 &#160; 49.24 &#160; % 773 &#160; Fixed-rate 13,516 &#160; 94 &#160; 3.85 &#160; 178 &#160; 60.89 &#160; 776 &#160; Total $ 14,443 &#160; 100 &#160; 3.81 &#160; $ 189 &#160; 60.15 &#160; 776 &#160; December 31, 2019 Adjustable-rate $ 1,715 11 3.46 % $ 22 51.59 % 774 Fixed-rate 14,200 89 4.07 244 61.39 774 Total $ 15,915 100 4.01 $ 266 60.33 774 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents UPB, net of charge-offs. 

(b) Updated home values were derived using a combination of appraisals, broker price opinions, automated valuation models, and metropolitan statistical area level house price indices. 

(c) Updated to reflect changes in credit score since loan origination. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Corporate Finance 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the activities of our Corporate Finance operations. The amounts presented are before the elimination of balances and transactions with our reportable segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020-2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Interest and fees on finance receivables and loans $ 349 &#160; $ 363 $ 321 (4) 13 Interest on loans held-for-sale 11 &#160; 10 10 10 &#8212; Interest expense 61 &#160; 134 127 54 (6) Net financing revenue and other interest income 

299 &#160; 239 204 25 17 Total other revenue 45 &#160; 45 38 &#8212; 18 Total net revenue 344 &#160; 284 242 21 17 Provision for credit losses 149 &#160; 36 12 n/m n/m Noninterest expense Compensation and benefits expense 62 &#160; 58 53 (7) (9) Other operating expenses 45 &#160; 37 33 (22) (12) Total noninterest expense 107 &#160; 95 86 (13) (10) Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 

$ 88 &#160; $ 153 $ 144 (42) 6 Total assets $ 6,108 &#160; $ 5,787 $ 4,670 6 24 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

2020 Compared to 2019 

Our Corporate Finance operations earned income from continuing operations before income tax expense of $88 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to income earned of $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020, is due to incremental reserves recorded for expected credit losses related to COVID-19, partially offset by higher net financing revenue and other interest income resulting from asset growth. 

Net financing revenue and other interest income was $299 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $239 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was due to higher average assets from continued growth in the portfolio and lower interest expense as benchmark interest rates decreased as compared to the prior year. The decrease in benchmark interest rates also drove a decline in interest and fees on finance receivables and loans, which was partially mitigated by LIBOR base rate floors on the majority of the portfolio. 

The provision for credit losses increased $113 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in provision for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by $71 million of incremental reserves associated with the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and higher provisions for specific loan exposures. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Total noninterest expense was $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher compensation and benefits expense and other noninterest costs associated with growth in the business. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Credit Portfolio 

The following table presents loans held-for-sale, the amortized cost of finance receivables and loans outstanding, unfunded commitments to lend, and total serviced loans of our Corporate Finance operations. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Loans held-for-sale, net 

$ 205 &#160; $ 100 Finance receivables and loans 

$ 6,006 &#160; $ 5,688 Unfunded lending commitments (a) 

$ 4,193 &#160; $ 2,682 Total serviced loans 

$ 8,455 &#160; $ 6,380 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes unused revolving credit line commitments for loans held-for-sale and finance receivables and loans, signed commitment letters, and standby letter of credit facilities, which are issued on behalf of clients and may contingently require us to make payments to a third-party beneficiary in the event of a draw by the beneficiary thereunder. As many of these commitments are subject to borrowing base agreements and other restrictive covenants or may expire without being fully drawn, the stated amounts of these unfunded commitments are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. 

The following table presents the percentage of total finance receivables and loans of our Corporate Finance operations by industry concentration. The finance receivables and loans are reported at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2020 2019 Industry 

Financial services 

22.8 &#160; % 13.0 % Health services 

22.1 &#160; 25.8 Services 

19.6 &#160; 19.8 Automotive and transportation 

10.1 &#160; 11.4 Chemicals and metals 

5.9 &#160; 5.9 Machinery, equipment, and electronics 

5.8 &#160; 7.0 Other manufactured products 

3.1 &#160; 3.1 Lumber and wood 

2.4 &#160; 1.1 Wholesale 

2.3 &#160; 3.4 Food and beverages 

2.0 &#160; 3.9 Construction 1.1 &#160; 1.3 Retail trade 1.1 &#160; 1.3 Other 

1.7 &#160; 3.0 Total finance receivables and loans 

100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Corporate and Other 

The following table summarizes the activities of Corporate and Other, which primarily consist of centralized corporate treasury activities such as management of the cash and corporate investment securities and loan portfolios, short- and long-term debt, retail and brokered deposit liabilities, derivative instruments, original issue discount, and the residual impacts of our corporate FTP and treasury ALM activities. Corporate and Other also includes certain equity investments, which primarily consist of FHLB and FRB stock as well as other strategic investments, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, which primarily consists of loans originated prior to January 1, 2009, the activity related to Ally Invest and Ally Lending, CRA loans and related investments, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Favorable/(unfavorable) 2020-2019 % change Favorable/(unfavorable) 2019&#8211;2018 % change Net financing revenue and other interest income 

Interest and fees on finance receivables and loans (a) $ (15) $ 69 $ 83 (122) (17) Interest on loans held-for-sale 

4 &#160; 2 2 100 &#8212; Interest and dividends on investment securities and other earning assets 

629 &#160; 842 677 (25) 24 Interest on cash and cash equivalents 

14 &#160; 58 62 (76) (6) Other, net 

(8) (11) (9) 27 (22) Total financing revenue and other interest income 

624 &#160; 960 815 (35) 18 

Interest expense 

Original issue discount amortization (b) 

47 &#160; 42 101 (12) 58 Other interest expense (c) 

617 &#160; 890 530 31 (68) Total interest expense 

664 &#160; 932 631 29 (48) Net financing (loss) revenue and other interest income (40) 28 184 n/m (85) 

Other revenue 

Gain (loss) on mortgage and automotive loans, net 17 &#160; &#8212; (2) n/m 100 Loss on extinguishment of debt (102) (2) (1) n/m (100) 

Other gain on investments, net 

88 &#160; 63 8 40 n/m 

Other income, net of losses 

295 &#160; 110 114 168 (4) Total other revenue 

298 &#160; 171 119 74 44 

Total net revenue 

258 &#160; 199 303 30 (34) 

Provision for credit losses 

47 &#160; (5) (15) n/m (67) 

Total noninterest expense (d) 

507 &#160; 363 333 (40) (9) Loss from continuing operations before income tax expense 

$ (296) $ (159) $ (15) (86) n/m 

Total assets 

$ 47,237 &#160; $ 36,168 $ 33,950 31 7 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Primarily related to impacts associated with hedging activities within our automotive loan portfolio, consumer unsecured lending activity, and financing revenue from our legacy mortgage portfolio. 

(b) Amortization is included as interest on long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 

(c) Includes the residual impacts of our FTP methodology and impacts of hedging activities of certain debt obligations. 

(d) Includes reductions of $986 million, $899 million, and $854 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, related to the allocation of corporate overhead expenses to other segments. The receiving segments record their allocation of corporate overhead expense within other operating expense. 

The following table presents the scheduled remaining amortization of the original issue discount at December 31, 2020. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 and thereafter (a) Total Original issue discount Outstanding balance at year end $ 1,012 $ 956 $ 894 $ 825 $ 751 $ &#8212; Total amortization (b) 52 56 62 69 74 751 $ 1,064 ##TABLE_END

(a) The maximum annual scheduled amortization for any individual year is $143 million in 2030. 

(b) The amortization is included as interest on long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

2020 Compared to 2019 

Corporate and Other incurred a loss from continuing operations before income tax expense of $296 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to a loss of $159 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in loss was primarily driven by a decrease in total financing revenue and other interest income resulting from a lower interest rate environment, and loss on extinguishment of debt from the early repayment of FHLB debt, partially offset by lower interest expense. The increase in loss was also attributable to a $50 million goodwill impairment at Ally Invest that occurred in the second quarter of 2020 and incremental reserves associated with Ally Lending. 

Financing revenue and other interest income was $624 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $960 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by the impacts of a lower interest rate environment on the investment securities portfolio and hedging activities. 

Total interest expense decreased $268 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower market interest rates, which drove a decrease in our deposit rates, and our continued shift to more cost-efficient deposit funding. 

Total other revenue was $298 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was driven by increased realized investment gains, partially offset by losses on the early repayment of FHLB debt of $99 million. 

The provision for credit losses increased $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in provision expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by reserve increases in the Ally Lending portfolio primarily driven by continued growth within the portfolio, as well as higher reserves associated with the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to the Risk Management section of this MD&#38;A for further discussion on our provision for credit losses. 

Noninterest expense increased $144 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was driven by increased expenses to support the growth of our consumer product suite, as we continue to make investments in our technology platform to enhance the customer experience and expand our digital capabilities and portfolio of products. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was also driven by an impairment charge of $50 million related to the goodwill at Ally Invest. 

Total assets were $47.2 billion as of December 31, 2020, compared to $36.2 billion as of December 31, 2019. This increase was primarily the result of growth in our interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents. The increase was partially offset by a decline in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities portfolio and the continued runoff of our legacy mortgage portfolio. At December 31, 2020, the amortized cost of the legacy mortgage portfolio was $495 million, compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2019. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Cash and Securities 

The following table summarizes the composition of the cash and securities portfolio at fair value for Corporate and Other. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Cash and cash equivalents Noninterest-bearing cash $ 512 &#160; $ 501 Interest-bearing cash 14,318 &#160; 1,706 Total cash and cash equivalents 14,830 &#160; 2,207 Available-for-sale securities Debt securities U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 747 &#160; 1,520 U.S. States and political subdivisions 415 &#160; 111 Agency mortgage-backed residential 17,869 &#160; 20,272 Mortgage-backed residential 2,596 &#160; 2,780 Agency mortgage-backed commercial 4,189 &#160; 1,382 Mortgage-backed commercial &#8212; &#160; 42 Asset-backed 425 &#160; 368 Total available-for-sale securities 26,241 &#160; 26,475 Held-to-maturity securities Debt securities Agency mortgage-backed residential 1,331 &#160; 1,579 Asset-backed retained notes &#8212; &#160; 21 Total held-to-maturity securities 1,331 &#160; 1,600 Total cash, cash equivalents, and securities $ 42,402 &#160; $ 30,282 ##TABLE_END

Ally Invest 

Ally Invest is our digital brokerage and wealth management offering, which enables us to complement our competitive deposit products with low-cost and commission-free investing. The following table presents trading days and average customer trades per day, the number of funded accounts, total net customer assets, and total customer cash balances as of the end of each of the last five quarters. 

##TABLE_START 4th quarter 2020 3rd quarter 2020 2nd quarter 2020 1st quarter 2020 4th quarter 2019 Trading days (a) 63.0 &#160; 64.0 63.0 62.0 63.0 

Average customer trades per day (in thousands) 

60.1 &#160; 58.7 60.7 43.9 21.2 

Funded accounts (b) (in thousands) 

406 &#160; 400 388 373 347 

Total net customer assets ($ in millions) 

$ 13,445 &#160; $ 11,061 $ 9,603 $ 7,489 $ 7,850 

Total customer cash balances ($ in millions) 

$ 2,085 &#160; $ 1,882 $ 1,891 $ 1,856 $ 1,376 ##TABLE_END

(a) Represents the number of days the New York Stock Exchange and other U.S. stock exchange markets are open for trading. A half day represents a day when the U.S. markets close early. 

(b) Represents open and funded brokerage accounts. 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, market volatility resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and U.S. presidential election generated increased trade activity. Total funded accounts increased 17% from the fourth quarter of 2019. Average customer trades per day increased 183% from the fourth quarter of 2019, driven primarily by market volatility. Additionally, net customer assets increased 71% from the fourth quarter of 2019, as a result of equity market appreciation and increased customer account openings. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Risk Management 

Managing the risk/reward trade-off is a fundamental component of operating our businesses, and all employees are responsible for managing risk. We use multiple layers of defense to identify, monitor, and manage current and emerging risks. 

&#8226; Business lines &#160;&#8212; Responsible for owning and managing all of the risks that emanate from their risk-taking activities, including business units and support functions. 

&#8226; Independent risk management &#8212; Operates independent of the business lines and is responsible for establishing and maintaining our risk-management framework and promulgating it enterprise-wide. Independent risk management also provides an objective, critical assessment of risks and&#8212;through oversight, effective challenge, and other means&#8212;evaluates whether Ally remains aligned with its risk appetite. 

&#8226; Internal audit &#8212; Provides its own independent assessments of the effectiveness of our risk management, internal controls, and governance; and independent assessments regarding the quality of our loan portfolios. Internal audit includes Audit Services and the Loan Review Group. 

Our risk-management framework is overseen by the RC of our Board. The RC sets the risk appetite across our company while risk-oriented management committees, the executive leadership team, and our associates identify and monitor current and emerging risks and manage those risks within our risk appetite. Our primary types of risk include the following: 

&#8226; Credit risk &#8212; The risk of loss arising from an obligor not meeting its contractual obligations to us. 

&#8226; Insurance/underwriting risk &#8212; The risk of loss or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, due to inadequate pricing and provisioning assumptions. 

&#8226; Liquidity risk &#8212; The risk that our financial condition or overall safety and soundness is adversely affected by the actual or perceived inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding or to easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Refer to discussion in the section titled Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital within this MD&#38;A. 

&#8226; Market risk &#8212; The risk that movements in market variables such as benchmark interest rates, investors&#8217; required risk premium, foreign-exchange rates, equity prices, and used car prices may adversely affect our earnings, capital, or economic value. Market risk includes interest rate risk, investment risk, and lease residual risk. 

&#8226; Business/strategic risk &#8212; The risk resulting from the pursuit of business plans that turn out to be unsuccessful due to a variety of factors. 

&#8226; Reputation risk &#8212; The risk arising from negative public opinion on our business practices, whether true or not, that could cause a decline in the customer base, litigation, or revenue reductions. 

&#8226; Operational risk &#8212; Operational risk is the risk of loss or harm arising from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events and is inherent in all of Ally&#8217;s risk-generating activities. 

&#8226; Information technology/security risk &#8212; The risk resulting from the failure of, or insufficiency in, information technology (for example, a system outage) or intentional or accidental unauthorized access, sharing, removal, tampering, or disposal of company and customer data or records. 

&#8226; Compliance risk &#8212; The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to the banking organization (applicable rules and standards). 

&#8226; Conduct risk &#8212; The risk of customer harm, employee harm, reputational damage, regulatory sanction, or financial loss resulting from the behavior of our employees and contractors toward customers, counterparties, other employees and contractors, or the markets in which we operate. 

Our risk-governance structure starts within each business line, including committees established to oversee risk in their respective areas. The business lines are responsible for their risk-based performance and compliance with risk-management policies and applicable law. The independent risk-management function is accountable for independently identifying, monitoring, measuring, and reporting on our various risks and for designing an effective risk-management framework and structure. The independent risk-management function is also responsible for developing, maintaining, and implementing enterprise risk-management. In addition, the ERMC is responsible for supporting the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s oversight of senior management&#8217;s responsibility to execute on our strategy within our risk appetite set by the RC, and the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s implementation of our independent risk-management program. The Chief Risk Officer reports to the RC, as well as administratively to the Chief Executive Officer. 

All business lines are subject to full and unrestricted audits by Audit Services. The Chief Audit Executive reports to the AC, as well as administratively to the Chief Executive Officer, and is primarily responsible for assisting the AC in fulfilling its governance and oversight 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

responsibilities. Audit Services is granted free and unrestricted access to any and all of our records, physical properties, technologies, management, and employees. 

In addition, our Loan Review Group provides an independent assessment of the quality of our extensions of credit and credit-risk-management practices, and all business lines that create or influence credit risk are subject to full and unrestricted reviews by the Loan Review Group. This group is also granted free and unrestricted access to any and all of our records, physical properties, technologies, management and employees, and reports directly to the RC. 

Loan and Operating Lease Exposure 

The following table summarizes the exposures from our loan and operating-lease activities. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Finance receivables and loans Automotive Finance $ 96,809 &#160; $ 104,880 Mortgage Finance 14,632 &#160; 16,181 Corporate Finance 6,006 &#160; 5,688 Corporate and Other (a) 1,087 &#160; 1,482 Total finance receivables and loans 118,534 &#160; 128,231 Loans held-for-sale Mortgage Finance (b) 91 &#160; 28 Corporate Finance 205 &#160; 100 Corporate and Other 110 &#160; 30 Total loans held-for-sale 406 &#160; 158 Total on-balance-sheet loans 118,940 &#160; 128,389 Off-balance-sheet securitized loans Automotive Finance (c) &#8212; &#160; 417 Whole-loan sales Automotive Finance (c) &#8212; &#160; 207 Total off-balance-sheet loans &#8212; &#160; 624 Operating lease assets Automotive Finance 9,639 &#160; 8,864 Total loan and operating lease exposure $ 128,579 &#160; $ 137,877 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $495 million and $1.1 billion of consumer mortgage loans in our legacy mortgage portfolio at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

(b) Represents the current balance of conforming mortgages originated directly to the held-for-sale portfolio. 

(c) Represents the current unpaid principal balance of outstanding loans, which are subject to our customary representation, warranty, and covenant provisions. 

The risks inherent in our loan and operating lease exposures are largely driven by changes in the overall economy, used vehicle and housing prices, unemployment levels, and their impact on our borrowers. The potential financial statement impact of these exposures varies depending on the accounting classification and future expected disposition strategy. We retain most of our consumer automotive loans as they complement our core business model, but we do sell loans from time to time on an opportunistic basis. We ultimately manage the associated risks based on the underlying economics of the exposure. Our operating lease residual risk may be more volatile than credit risk in stressed macroeconomic scenarios. While all operating leases are exposed to potential reductions in used vehicle values, only loans where we take possession of the vehicle are affected by potential reductions in used vehicle values. 

&#8226; Finance receivables and loans &#160; &#8212; Loans that we have the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity, or loans associated with an on-balance-sheet securitization classified as secured borrowing. Finance receivables and loans are reported at their amortized cost, which includes the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, unamortized premiums and discounts on purchased loans, unamortized basis adjustments arising from the designation of finance receivables and loans as the hedged item in qualifying fair value hedge relationships, and cumulative principal charge-offs. We refer to the amortized cost basis less the allowance for loan loss as the net carrying value in finance receivables and loans. We manage the economic risks of these exposures, including credit risk, by adjusting underwriting standards and risk limits, augmenting our servicing and collection activities (including loan modifications and restructurings), and optimizing our product and geographic concentrations. Additionally, we may elect to account for certain loans at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these loans are recognized in a valuation allowance separate from the allowance for loan losses and are reflected in current period earnings. We may use market-based instruments, such as derivatives, to hedge changes in the fair value of these loans. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; Loans held-for-sale &#160;&#8212; Loans that we do not have the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity. These loans are recorded on our balance sheet at the lower of their net carrying value or fair market value and are evaluated by portfolio and product type. We manage the economic risks of these exposures, including market and credit risks, in various ways including the use of market-based instruments, such as derivatives. 

&#8226; Off-balance-sheet securitized loans &#160;&#8212; Loans that we transfer off-balance sheet to nonconsolidated VIEs. Our exposure is primarily limited to customary representation, warranty, and covenant provisions. Similar to finance receivables and loans, we manage the economic risks of these exposures through activities including servicing and collections. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we indicated our intent to exercise the clean-up call option related to the remaining nonconsolidated securitization-related VIE. As a result of this event, we became the primary beneficiary of the VIE and consolidated the VIE on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

&#8226; Whole-loan sales &#160;&#8212; Loans that we transfer off-balance sheet to third-party investors. Our exposure is primarily limited to customary representation, warranty and covenant provisions. Similar to finance receivables and loans, we manage the economic risks of these exposures through activities including servicing and collections. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into an agreement to repurchase the remaining assets and terminate the last outstanding whole-loan sales. 

&#8226; Operating lease assets &#160;&#8212; The net book value of the automotive assets we lease includes the expected residual values upon remarketing the vehicles at the end of the lease and is reported net of accumulated depreciation. We are exposed to fluctuations in the expected residual value upon remarketing the vehicle at the end of the lease, and as such at contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense appropriately over the remaining life of the contract. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. The balance sheet reflects both the operating lease asset as well as any associated rent receivables. The operating lease rent receivable is accrued when collection is reasonably assured and presented as a component of other assets. The operating lease asset is reviewed for impairment in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 

Refer to the section titled Critical Accounting Estimates within this MD&#38;A and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss arising from an obligor not meeting its contractual obligations to us. Credit risk includes consumer credit risk, commercial credit risk, and counterparty credit risk. 

Credit risk is a major source of potential economic loss to us. Credit risk is monitored by the RCs, executive leadership team, and our associates. Together, they oversee credit decisioning, account servicing activities, and credit-risk-management processes, and manage credit risk exposures within our risk appetite. In addition, our Loan Review Group provides an independent assessment of the quality of our credit portfolios and credit-risk-management practices and reports its findings to the RC on a regular basis. 

To mitigate risk, we have implemented specific policies and practices across business lines, utilizing both qualitative and quantitative analyses. This reflects our commitment to maintaining an independent and ongoing assessment of credit risk and credit quality. Our policies require an objective and timely assessment of the overall quality of the consumer and commercial loan and operating lease portfolios. This includes the identification of relevant trends that affect the collectability of the portfolios, segments of the portfolios that are potential problem areas, loans and operating leases with potential credit weaknesses, and the assessment of the adequacy of internal credit risk policies and procedures. Our consumer and commercial loan and operating lease portfolios are subject to regular stress tests that are based on plausible, but unexpected, economic scenarios to assess how the portfolios may perform in a severe economic downturn. In addition, we establish and maintain underwriting policies and limits across our portfolios and higher risk segments (for example, nonprime) based on our risk appetite. 

Another important aspect to managing credit risk involves the need to carefully monitor and manage the performance and pricing of our loan products with the aim of generating appropriate risk-adjusted returns. When considering pricing, various granular risk-based factors are considered such as expected loss rates, loss volatility, anticipated operating costs, and targeted returns on equity. We carefully monitor credit losses and trends in credit losses relative to expected credit losses at contract inception. We closely monitor our loan performance and profitability in light of forecasted economic conditions and manage credit risk and expectations of losses in the portfolio. 

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower, the source of repayment, the underlying collateral, and current market conditions. We monitor the credit risk profile of individual borrowers, various segmentations (for example, geographic region, product type, industry segment), as well as the aggregate portfolio. We perform quarterly analyses of the consumer automotive, consumer mortgage, consumer other, and commercial portfolios using a range of indicators to assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses based on historical and current trends. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Additionally, we utilize numerous collection strategies to mitigate loss and provide ongoing support to customers in financial distress. For consumer automotive loans, we work with customers when they become delinquent on their monthly payment. In lieu of repossessing 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

their vehicle, we may offer several types of assistance to aid our customers based on their willingness and ability to repay their loan. Loss mitigation may include payment extensions and rewrites of the loan terms. For mortgage loans, as part of certain programs, we offer mortgage loan modifications to qualified borrowers. These programs are in place to provide support to our mortgage customers in financial distress, including maturity extensions, delinquent interest capitalization, changes to contractual interest rates, and principal forgiveness. 

Furthermore, we manage our credit exposure to financial counterparties based on the risk profile of the counterparty. Within our policies we have established standards and requirements for managing counterparty risk exposures in a safe and sound manner. Counterparty credit risk is derived from multiple exposure types including derivatives, securities trading, securities financing transactions, and certain cash balances. For more information on derivative counterparty credit risk, refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We employ an internal team of economists to enhance our planning and forecasting capabilities. This team conducts industry and market research, monitors economic risks, and helps support various forms of scenario planning. This group closely monitors macroeconomic trends given the nature of our business and the potential impacts on our exposure to credit risk. The U.S. economy has started to recover from shutdowns that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. After peaking at 14.7%, as adjusted, in April, the unemployment rate declined to 6.7% as of December 31, 2020. As a result of the economic disruption from COVID-19, sales of light motor vehicles fell to an annual pace of 8.7 million in April, a 49-year low, before rising to a 16.3 million annual pace as of December 31, 2020. Elevated unemployment may limit further increases in used vehicle values in 2021, despite the strengthening in values in the second half of 2020. Additionally, used vehicle values may also be impacted by changes in customer preferences, including alternative transportation methods such as public transportation, vehicle sharing, and ride hailing. 

Consumer Credit Portfolio 

Our consumer loan portfolio primarily consists of automotive loans, first-lien mortgages, home equity loans and personal loans. Loan losses in our consumer loan portfolio are influenced by general business and economic conditions including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, and home and used vehicle prices. Additionally, our consumer credit exposure is significantly concentrated in automotive lending. 

Credit risk management for the consumer loan portfolio begins with the initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower&#8217;s credit life cycle. We manage consumer credit risk through our loan origination and underwriting policies and the credit approval process. We use proprietary credit-scoring models to differentiate the expected default rates of credit applicants enabling us to better evaluate credit applications for approval and to tailor the pricing and financing structure according to this assessment of credit risk. We continuously monitor and routinely update the inputs of the credit scoring models. These and other actions mitigate but do not eliminate credit risk. Ineffective evaluations of a borrower&#8217;s creditworthiness, fraud, or changes in the applicant&#8217;s financial condition after approval could negatively affect the quality of our portfolio, resulting in loan losses. 

Our servicing activities are another important factor in managing consumer credit risk. Servicing activities consist of collecting and processing customer payments, responding to customer concerns and inquiries, processing customer requests (including those for payoff quotes, total-loss handling, and payment modifications), maintaining a perfected security interest in the financed vehicle, engaging in collections activity, and disposing of off-lease and repossessed vehicles. Servicing activities are generally consistent across our Automotive Finance operations; however, certain practices may be influenced by state laws. 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the credit performance of the consumer loan portfolio reflected our underwriting strategy to originate a diversified portfolio of consumer automotive loan assets, including new, used, prime and nonprime finance receivables and loans, as well as high-quality jumbo and LMI mortgage loans that are acquired through bulk loan purchases and direct-to-consumer mortgage originations. We also further diversified our consumer portfolio to include point-of-sale personal lending through Ally Lending, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019. The carrying value of our nonprime consumer automotive loans before allowance for loan losses represented approximately 11.7% and 11.6% of our total consumer automotive loans at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. For information on our consumer credit risk practices and policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, and charge-offs, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table includes consumer finance receivables and loans recorded at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START Outstanding Nonperforming (a) Accruing past due 90 days or more (b) 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Consumer automotive (c) (d) $ 73,668 &#160; $ 72,390 $ 1,256 &#160; $ 762 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 

14,632 &#160; 16,181 67 &#160; 17 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 

495 &#160; 1,141 35 &#160; 40 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total consumer mortgage 15,127 &#160; 17,322 102 &#160; 57 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Consumer other (e) 399 &#160; 201 3 &#160; 2 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total consumer finance receivables and loans 

$ 89,194 &#160; $ 89,913 $ 1,361 &#160; $ 821 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes nonaccrual TDR loans of $745 million and $252 million at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

(b) Loans are generally in nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for 90 days or more, or when full collection is not expected. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our accounting policies for finance receivables and loans. 

(c) Certain finance receivables and loans are included in fair value hedging relationships. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(d) Includes outstanding CSG loans of $8.2 billion at both December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, and RV loans of $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019. 

(e) Excludes finance receivables of $8 million and $11 million at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, for which we have elected the fair value option. 

Total consumer finance receivables and loans decreased $719 million at December 31, 2020, compared with December 31, 2019. The decrease consists of $2.2 billion of consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans, partially offset by increases of $1.3 billion of consumer automotive finance receivables and loans and $198 million of consumer other finance receivables and loans. The decrease was primarily due to lower consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans as a result of loan pay-offs which exceeded bulk loan purchases and direct-to-consumer origination volume, and a loan sale within our legacy mortgage portfolio. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in consumer automotive finance receivables and loans primarily related to continued momentum in our used vehicle lending, as well as an increase in consumer other finance receivables and loans primarily related to Ally Lending loan originations which outpaced portfolio runoff. 

Total consumer nonperforming finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2020, increased $540 million to $1.4 billion from December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to our consumer automotive and consumer mortgage loan portfolios as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Nonperforming consumer finance receivables and loans as a percentage of total outstanding consumer finance receivables and loans were 1.5% at December 31, 2020, and 0.9% at December 31, 2019. 

Total consumer TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2020, increased $1.2 billion since December 31, 2019, to $2.0 billion. Results primarily reflect a $1.3 billion increase in our consumer automotive loan portfolio. This increase is driven by the impact of our loan modification program offered to borrowers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as an increase in deferrals offered through our established risk management policies and practices to customers subsequent to a COVID-19 deferral, where the loan modification in connection with other factors resulted in a TDR classification. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Consumer automotive loans accruing and past due 30 days or more decreased $782 million to $1.8 billion at December 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019, driven primarily by the impact of our loan modification program offered to borrowers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We experienced a higher level of borrowers who entered nonaccrual status as result of a TDR classification primarily based on our evaluation of the loan under our TDR framework which included a number of loans that entered into a loan modification. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

In response to the impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken significant actions to support our customers with industry-leading relief programs, while prudently managing our credit risk exposure. Our relief programs across our consumer portfolios consisted of the following. 

&#8226; In our consumer automotive loan portfolio, existing customers had the option to elect to defer their payments for up to 120 days without late fees being incurred, but with finance charges continuing to accrue. This program was made available to all consumer automotive loan customers beginning March 18, 2020, through June 21, 2020. 

&#8226; In our consumer mortgage portfolio, existing customers experiencing financial hardship due to an interruption of income related to the COVID-19 pandemic were afforded the opportunity to defer their loan payments for up to 120 days, with an option for an additional 60 days, without late fees being incurred but with interest continuing to accrue. This program was made available to mortgage-lending customers from March 18, 2020, through July 31, 2020. 

&#8226; In our consumer other portfolio, existing point-of-sale personal-lending customers experiencing financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic had the opportunity to elect to defer their loan payments for up to 120 days without late fees being incurred or finance charges continuing to accrue. In addition to this program, we temporarily suspended late fees for all customers with current accounts. The loan-deferral program was made available to point-of-sale personal-lending customers from March 23, 2020, through June 30, 2020. 

The participation of these programs and their status as of December 31, 2020, is summarized below. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2020 (number of loans, units in thousands) 

Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other Requests for loan deferral 1,254 2 6 Less: Cancellations &#8212; (1) &#8212; Loans participating in COVID-19 deferral program, net (a) 1,254 1 6 Loans remaining in COVID-19 deferral program at end of year &#8212; &#160; % 4 &#160; % &#8212; &#160; % Delinquency status of loans that have exited the deferral period and remain outstanding (b) (c) Current 90 &#160; % 85 &#160; % 83 &#160; % 30&#8211;59 days past due 6 &#160; 3 &#160; 4 &#160; 60&#8211;89 days past due 3 &#160; 1 &#160; 7 &#160; 90 or more days past due 1 &#160; 11 &#160; 6 &#160; Total 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % 100 &#160; % ##TABLE_END

(a) Amounts include 160 thousand consumer automotive loans and 1 thousand consumer other loans have subsequently paid-in-full, and 15 thousand consumer automotive loans that have subsequently been charged off. 

(b) Amounts include 44 thousand consumer automotive loans that were subsequently modified and remain in an active modification programs. Amounts also include 1 thousand consumer mortgage loans that were subsequently modified for borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. 

(c) Includes loans that have been modified that are considered to be a TDR. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our accounting policies for TDRs. 

Substantially all of our customers with consumer loans that enrolled in our COVID-19 deferral programs have exited their deferral period at December 31, 2020. We continue to monitor the performance of these loans, and provide loan modifications to support the customer and reduce credit risk, as applicable, in line with our business practices. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our accounting policies for TDRs. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

For all borrowers who enroll in loan modification programs offered as a result of COVID-19, the delinquency status of the borrowers is frozen as of the date immediately preceding the commencement of the program, which resulted in a static delinquency metric during the deferral period. Upon exiting the deferral program, the measurement of loan delinquency resumes where it had left off upon entry into the program. The following table presents the delinquency status for outstanding consumer automotive loans that have exited the COVID-19 deferral program as of December 31, 2020, as compared to the delinquency status of the borrowers that were frozen as of the date immediately preceding the commencement of the program and reported as such during the deferral period. 

##TABLE_START Delinquency status as of December 31, 2020 (units in thousands) 

Current 30&#8211;59 days past due 60&#8211;89 days past due 90 or more days past due Total Delinquency status during deferral period Units % of total Units % of total Units % of total Units % of total Units % of total Consumer automotive Current 899 &#160; 92 &#160; 47 &#160; 5 &#160; 16 &#160; 2 &#160; 8 &#160; 1 &#160; 970 100 &#160; 30&#8211;59 days past due 51 &#160; 68 &#160; 15 &#160; 20 &#160; 6 &#160; 8 &#160; 3 &#160; 4 &#160; 75 100 &#160; 60&#8211;89 days past due 10 &#160; 56 &#160; 4 &#160; 22 &#160; 3 &#160; 17 &#160; 1 &#160; 5 &#160; 18 100 &#160; 90 or more days past due 2 &#160; 50 &#160; 1 &#160; 25 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; 25 &#160; 4 100 &#160; Total consumer automotive (a) 962 &#160; 67 &#160; 25 &#160; 13 &#160; 1,067 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) As of December 31, 2020, 5% of all loans that have exited the COVID-19 deferral program have been written down to estimated collateral value, less costs to sell. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our charge-off policies. 

We continue to carefully monitor the performance of our borrowers and have taken proactive steps to expand staffing levels and have implemented digital tools in order to maximize collections and work with borrowers who may not be able to make their contractual payments upon exiting the deferral program. To date, current behaviors and payment activity have outperformed our initial expectations as well as historical payment performance for accounts with previously deferred payments. The future performance of these loans will be subject to a number of factors, including future economic conditions, the amount of additional Federal stimulus provided, and the level of impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have. 

The following table includes consumer net charge-offs from finance receivables and loans at amortized cost and related ratios. 

##TABLE_START Net charge-offs (recoveries) Net charge-off ratios (a) 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2020 2019 Consumer automotive $ 702 &#160; $ 930 1.0 &#160; % 1.3 % Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 3 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Mortgage &#8212; Legacy (6) (8) (0.6) (0.6) Total consumer mortgage (3) (8) &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Consumer other 14 &#160; 5 5.3 &#160; 9.6 Total consumer finance receivables and loans $ 713 &#160; $ 927 0.8 &#160; 1.0 ##TABLE_END

(a) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

Our net charge-offs from total consumer finance receivables and loans were $713 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $927 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net charge-offs for our consumer automotive portfolio decreased by $228 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by strong payment performance and delinquency trends through the pandemic, as well as a lower number of loans migrating to charge-off as a result of the COVID-19 loan deferral program. In addition, our net charge-offs continue to benefit from strong used vehicle prices which has reduced the realized loss impact in instances of default. Through much of the first quarter, our consumer automotive loan portfolio experienced strong overall credit performance, driven by favorable macroeconomic conditions including low unemployment and continued disciplined underwriting. During the second half of March 2020 and continuing into the second quarter economic conditions deteriorated as a result of COVID-19. While economic conditions have improved throughout the second half of the year, and we have taken a number of actions including the utilization of loan modification programs to support our customers and manage credit risk, we may incur higher charge-offs in future periods as a result of continued economic dislocation resulting from the impacts of COVID-19. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table summarizes total consumer loan originations for the periods shown. Total consumer loan originations include loans classified as finance receivables and loans and loans held-for-sale during the period. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Consumer automotive $ 30,497 &#160; $ 31,906 Consumer mortgage (a) 4,688 &#160; 2,693 Consumer other (b) 503 &#160; 67 Total consumer loan originations $ 35,688 &#160; $ 34,666 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes bulk loan purchases associated with our Mortgage Finance operations, and includes $2.7 billion of loans originated as held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2020, and $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

(b) Amounts relate to originations from Ally Lending, which began in the fourth quarter of 2019. 

Total consumer loan originations increased $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to growth in the direct-to-consumer mortgage business driven by the lower interest rate environment, as well as origination volume from Ally Lending. These increases were partially offset by lower consumer automotive originations driven by the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the temporary shutdown or restriction of front end operations of automotive dealers during the second quarter of 2020. These restrictions, along with the industry-wide halt of new vehicle production, drove a significant decrease in industry automotive light vehicle sales. 

The following table shows the percentage of consumer automotive and consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans by state concentration based on amortized cost. Total consumer automotive loans were $73.7 billion and $72.4 billion at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. Total consumer mortgage loans were $15.1 billion and $17.3 billion at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

##TABLE_START 2020 (a) 2019 December 31, Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage California 8.6 &#160; % 34.3 &#160; % 8.5 % 35.1 % Texas 12.5 &#160; 8.0 &#160; 12.4 6.5 Florida 8.8 &#160; 5.5 &#160; 8.8 5.1 Pennsylvania 4.5 &#160; 2.0 &#160; 4.6 1.9 Illinois 4.0 &#160; 3.0 &#160; 4.1 2.6 North Carolina 4.1 &#160; 2.3 &#160; 4.0 2.0 Georgia 3.9 &#160; 3.1 &#160; 3.9 2.8 New York 3.2 &#160; 3.4 &#160; 3.1 3.0 Ohio 3.5 &#160; 0.5 &#160; 3.6 0.5 New Jersey 2.9 &#160; 2.2 &#160; 2.8 2.3 Other United States 44.0 &#160; 35.7 &#160; 44.2 38.2 Total consumer loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Presentation is in descending order as a percentage of total consumer finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2020. 

We monitor our consumer loan portfolio for concentration risk across the states in which we lend. The highest concentrations of consumer loans are in California and Texas, which represented an aggregate of 24.7% and 24.9% of our total outstanding consumer finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. Our consumer mortgage loan portfolio concentration within California, which is primarily composed of high-quality jumbo mortgage loans, generally aligns to the California share of jumbo mortgages nationally. 

Repossessed and Foreclosed Assets 

We classify an asset as repossessed or foreclosed, which is included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, when physical possession of the collateral is taken. We dispose of the acquired collateral in a timely fashion in accordance with regulatory requirements. For more information on repossessed and foreclosed assets, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Repossessed consumer automotive loan assets in our Automotive Finance operations increased $39 million from December 31, 2019, to $186 million at December 31, 2020. Foreclosed mortgage assets decreased $7 million from December 31, 2019, to $2 million at December 31, 2020, primarily due to the foreclosure moratorium that was in effect through the end of the year. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Commercial Credit Portfolio 

Our commercial portfolio consists primarily of automotive loans through the extension of wholesale floorplan financing, automotive dealer term real estate loans, and automotive fleet financing, as well as other commercial loans from our corporate finance operations. Wholesale floorplan loans are secured by the vehicles financed (and all other vehicle inventory), which provides strong collateral protection in the event of dealership default. Additional collateral (for example, a blanket lien over all dealership assets) or other credit enhancements (for example, personal guarantees from dealership owners) are typically obtained to further mitigate credit risk. Furthermore, in some cases, we may benefit from situations where an automotive manufacturer repurchases vehicles. These repurchases may serve as an additional layer of protection in the event of repossession of new-vehicle dealership inventory or dealership franchise termination. 

Within our commercial portfolio, we utilize proprietary risk rating models that are fundamental to managing credit risk exposure consistently across various types of commercial borrowers and captures critical risk factors for each borrower. The ratings are used for many areas of credit risk management, including loan origination, portfolio risk monitoring, management reporting, and loan loss reserves analyses. Therefore, the rating systems are critical to an effective and consistent credit-risk-management framework. 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the credit performance of the commercial portfolio remained stable as nonperforming finance receivables and loans decreased, and our net charge-offs remained low. For information on our commercial credit risk practices and policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, and charge-offs, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following table includes total commercial finance receivables and loans reported at amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START Outstanding Nonperforming (a) Accruing past due 90 days or more (b) 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Commercial and industrial 

Automotive $ 19,082 &#160; $ 28,332 $ 40 &#160; $ 73 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; Other (c) 5,242 &#160; 5,014 116 &#160; 138 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Commercial real estate 

5,008 &#160; 4,961 5 &#160; 4 &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total commercial finance receivables and loans 

$ 29,332 &#160; $ 38,307 $ 161 &#160; $ 215 $ &#8212; &#160; $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes nonaccrual TDR loans of $125 million and $114 million at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

(b) Loans are generally in nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for 90 days or more, or when full collection is not expected. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our accounting policies for finance receivables and loans. 

(c) Other commercial and industrial primarily includes senior secured commercial lending largely associated with our Corporate Finance operations. 

Total commercial finance receivables and loans outstanding decreased $9.0 billion from December 31, 2019, to $29.3 billion at December 31, 2020. Results primarily reflect a $9.3 billion decrease in our commercial automotive loan portfolio due to lower dealer inventory levels, driven by lower automotive production levels due to COVID-19. This decrease was partially offset by a $228 million increase to commercial other loans within the commercial and industrial portfolio class, driven primarily by asset-based lending, mostly through our lender finance vertical, which provides asset managers with partial funding for their direct lending activities. This decrease was also partially offset by $47 million increase in our commercial real estate portfolio. 

Total commercial nonperforming finance receivables and loans were $161 million at December 31, 2020, reflecting a decrease of $54 million when compared to December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower dealer inventory levels and a lower number of impaired accounts within the commercial automotive portfolio, as well as the upgrade of one exposure to accrual status within commercial other in our commercial and industrial portfolio class. Nonperforming commercial finance receivables and loans as a percentage of outstanding commercial finance receivables and loans decreased to 0.5% at December 31, 2020, compared to 0.6% at December 31, 2019. 

In response to the impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, commercial automotive dealer customers that were current on all payment obligations were offered a waiver of curtailments on wholesale floorplan loans, an increase in floorplan advance rates, a deferral of interest and insurance charges on wholesale borrowings, and a deferral of term loan payments from April through July 2020. Approximately 2,290 or 73% of eligible dealers requested at least one form of this assistance for at least one month as part of this program. Dealers that elected to defer wholesale interest and insurance payments were provided with the option to repay such balances over a 4- or 12-month period without additional interest charges or fees. As of December 31, 2020, we have collected approximately 63% of all deferred wholesale interest and insurance charges, 100% of dealers are current on their repayment terms, and in the aggregate, remittances from dealers exceed their scheduled repayment obligations. 

Total commercial TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2020, increased $82 million since December 31, 2019, to $203 million. The increase was primarily driven by the restructuring of three exposures within commercial other in our commercial and industrial portfolio class. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table includes total commercial net charge-offs from finance receivables and loans at amortized cost and related ratios. 

##TABLE_START Net charge-offs Net charge-off ratios (a) 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2020 2019 Commercial and industrial Automotive $ 13 &#160; $ 12 0.1 &#160; % &#8212; % Other 37 &#160; 37 0.7 &#160; 0.8 Commercial real estate 1 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total commercial finance receivables and loans $ 51 &#160; $ 49 0.2 &#160; 0.1 ##TABLE_END

(a) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding finance receivables and loans excluding loans measured at fair value and loans held-for-sale during the period for each loan category. 

Our net charge-offs from total commercial finance receivables and loans were $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to net charge-offs of $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Charge-off activity remained stable year-over-year and was in line with expectations for these businesses. 

Commercial Real Estate 

The commercial real estate portfolio consists of finance receivables and loans issued primarily to automotive dealers. Commercial real estate finance receivables and loans were $5.0 billion at both December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019. 

The following table presents the percentage of total commercial real estate finance receivables and loans by state concentration based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2020 2019 Florida 13.3 &#160; % 11.6 % Texas 13.0 &#160; 15.0 California 7.9 &#160; 7.2 Michigan 7.7 &#160; 8.2 New York 5.6 &#160; 5.9 North Carolina 5.5 &#160; 4.6 Georgia 3.6 &#160; 3.5 Utah 3.0 &#160; 2.3 Illinois 2.8 &#160; 2.4 South Carolina 2.5 &#160; 2.8 Other United States 35.1 &#160; 36.5 Total commercial real estate finance receivables and loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Commercial Criticized Exposure 

Finance receivables and loans classified as special mention, substandard, or doubtful are reported as criticized. These classifications are based on regulatory definitions and generally represent finance receivables and loans within our portfolio that have a higher default risk or have already defaulted. These finance receivables and loans require additional monitoring and review including specific actions to mitigate our potential loss. 

Total criticized exposures decreased $236 million from December 31, 2019, to $4.0 billion at December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to lower dealer inventory levels in our commercial automotive portfolio driven by COVID-19-related production shutdowns during the second quarter of 2020, as well as continued lower production levels as automotive manufacturers work to return to pre-pandemic levels. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in special mention accounts within commercial other in our commercial and industrial receivable class. The increase was mainly driven by the impact of COVID-19 on the operations of borrowers in several different industries. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the percentage of total commercial criticized finance receivables and loans by industry concentration based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2020 2019 Industry Automotive 67.7 &#160; % 81.7 % Health/Medical 7.3 &#160; 2.9 Services 5.8 &#160; 5.4 Other 19.2 &#160; 10.0 Total commercial criticized finance receivables and loans 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Selected Loan Maturity and Sensitivity Data 

The table below shows the maturity of the commercial finance receivables and loans portfolio and the distribution between fixed and floating interest rates based on the stated terms of the commercial loan agreements. This portfolio is reported based on amortized cost. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2020 ($ in millions) 

Due in one year or less (a) Due after one year through five years Due after five years Total (b) Commercial and industrial $ 17,855 &#160; $ 5,624 &#160; $ 845 &#160; $ 24,324 &#160; Commercial real estate 352 &#160; 1,975 &#160; 2,681 &#160; 5,008 &#160; Total commercial finance receivables and loans $ 18,207 &#160; $ 7,599 &#160; $ 3,526 &#160; $ 29,332 &#160; Loans at fixed interest rates $ 2,171 &#160; $ 2,881 &#160; Loans at variable interest rates 5,428 &#160; 645 &#160; Total commercial finance receivables and loans $ 7,599 &#160; $ 3,526 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes loans with revolving terms (for example, wholesale floorplan loans). 

(b) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. 

Allowance for Loan Losses 

Implementation of CECL 

We adopted CECL on January 1, 2020, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon implementation of CECL, we recognized a reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of approximately $1.0 billion, net of income tax, which reflects a pre-tax increase to the allowance for loan losses of approximately $1.3 billion. This increase is almost exclusively driven by our consumer automotive loan portfolio. 

We have elected to phase-in the estimated impact of CECL into regulatory capital in accordance with the interim final rule of the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies that became effective on March 31, 2020, and was subsequently clarified and adjusted in a final rule that became effective September 30, 2020. As a result, we will delay recognizing the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until after a two-year deferral period, which for us extends through December 31, 2021. Beginning on January 1, 2022, we will be required to phase in 25% of the previously deferred estimated capital impact of CECL, with an additional 25% to be phased in at the beginning of each subsequent year until fully phased in by the first quarter of 2025. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details about the impact of CECL on regulatory capital. 

The CECL standard introduced a new accounting model to measure credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized costs. In contrast to the previous incurred loss model, CECL requires credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost to be determined based on the total current expected credit losses over the life of the financial asset or group of assets. 

Under CECL, our modeling processes incorporate the following considerations: 

&#8226; a single forecast scenario for macroeconomic factors incorporated into the modeling process; 

&#8226; a 12-month reasonable and supportable forecast period for macroeconomic factors with a reversion to the historical mean on a straight-line basis over a 24-month period; and 

&#8226; data from the historical mean will be calculated from January 2008 through the most current period which includes data points from the most recent recessionary period. 

Our quantitatively determined allowance under CECL is impacted by certain forecasted economic factors as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For example, macroeconomic variables that our consumer automotive allowance for loan losses is most sensitive to include national and state unemployment levels. Our process for determining the allowance for loan losses considers a borrower&#8217;s willingness and ability to pay and considers other factors, including loan modification programs. In addition to our quantitative 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

allowance for loan losses, we also incorporate qualitative adjustments that may relate to idiosyncratic risks, changes in current economic conditions that may not be reflected in quantitatively derived results such as the impacts associated with COVID-19. We also monitor model performance, using model error and related assessments, and we may incorporate qualitative reserves to adjust our quantitatively determined allowance if we observe deterioration in model performance. 

COVID-19 Impacts 

During the second half of March 2020, the economy experienced a significant deterioration in the macroeconomic environment driven by the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in notable adverse changes to forecasted economic variables that are utilized in our modeling processes. Given the fact that the macroeconomic information utilized in our quantitative allowance processes did not fully reflect the rapidly evolving economic changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we utilized our qualitative allowance framework to ensure the total reserve under CECL reflected the most current forecast of the broader macroeconomic environment. 

To help inform our forecast, we considered publicly published, broadly available stressed macroeconomic data including the Moody&#8217;s forecast from March 27, 2020, that reflected the most recent available information that considered the evolving impacts of developments from the COVID-19 pandemic as of March 31, 2020, in order to support the qualitative adjustments incorporated into our total allowance. Stressed macroeconomic variables that we utilized as of March 31, 2020, include the following, among others: unemployment rate approaching 10%, significant GDP contraction quarter-over-quarter, and declining new light vehicle sales. Our qualitatively determined allowance associated with deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook from COVID-19 resulted in provision expense of $602 million which was incremental to our modeled reserves. 

Through June 2020, forecasted economic variables utilized in our allowance modeling processes were updated to reflect the current macroeconomic environment and our future expectations which included (but were not limited to) the following: the unemployment rate rising to a peak of approximately 14%, declining to approximately 9% by the end of 2020, before subsequently migrating to our historical mean of approximately 6% by the middle of 2023, significant near-term GDP contraction, and a continuation of lower levels of new light vehicle sales. The updated economic forecast resulted in an increase in the allowance for loan losses informed through our modeling process as compared to the period ending March 31, 2020. Using our qualitative allowance framework, we reassessed and adjusted levels to reflect our current estimate of credit losses in our portfolios which considered among other things, idiosyncratic risks as well as performance of our portfolio subject to our deferral programs. 

Through September 2020, forecasted economic variables utilized in our allowance modeling processes were updated to reflect the current macroeconomic environment and our future expectations which included (but were not limited to) the following: the unemployment rate moderating to approximately 9% in September 2020 after reaching year-to-date highs of nearly 15% in April 2020, declining to approximately 8% by the end of 2020, before migrating downward to our historical mean of approximately 7% by the third quarter of 2023, a significant near term recovery in GDP as measured on a quarter-over-quarter seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis, and a recovery of new light vehicle sales on a seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis of approximately 15 million units by the end of 2020. In addition to updating the macroeconomic variables for our quantitative processes, we reassessed reserves under our qualitative framework for potential adjustment during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. The improvement in the macroeconomic outlook through our modeling processes resulted in a decrease in reserves that was more than offset by other factors, specifically the significant increase in end of period balances in our consumer automotive portfolio. 

Through December 2020, forecasted economic variables utilized in our quantitative allowance processes were updated to reflect the current macroeconomic environment and our future expectations which included (but were not limited to) the following: the unemployment rate declining to approximately 7% by the end of 2021, which is consistent with our historical mean of approximately 7% starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, stable GDP growth over 2021 as measured on a quarter-over-quarter seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis, and increases in new light vehicle sales on a seasonally adjusted annualized rate basis to approximately 16 million units by the end of 2021. Given the overall improvement in the macroeconomic variables quarter-over-quarter, it resulted in a decrease in the allowance for loan losses through our quantitative reserving process. Using our qualitative allowance framework, we reassessed and adjusted levels by incorporating uncertainty and volatility in the macroeconomic environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which partially offset the decreases in reserves from our quantitative process. As a result, our overall allowance for loan losses decreased $96 million from the prior quarter to $3.3 billion at December 31, 2020, representing 2.8% as a percentage of total finance receivables as of December 31, 2020, compared to 2.9% as of September 30, 2020, 2.8% as of June 30, 2020, and 2.5% as of March 31, 2020. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents an analysis of the activity in the allowance for loan losses on finance receivables and loans for the year ended December 31, 2020, and includes the cumulative effect of adopting CECL. 

##TABLE_START 

($ in millions) 

Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other Total consumer Commercial Total Allowance at December 31, 2019 $ 1,075 &#160; $ 46 &#160; $ 9 &#160; $ 1,130 &#160; $ 133 &#160; $ 1,263 &#160; Cumulative effect of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 1,334 &#160; (6) 16 &#160; 1,344 &#160; 2 &#160; 1,346 &#160; Allowance at January 1, 2020 $ 2,409 &#160; $ 40 &#160; $ 25 &#160; $ 2,474 &#160; $ 135 &#160; $ 2,609 &#160; Charge-offs (a) (1,244) (13) (15) (1,272) (54) (1,326) Recoveries 542 &#160; 16 &#160; 1 &#160; 559 &#160; 3 &#160; 562 &#160; Net charge-offs (702) 3 &#160; (14) (713) (51) (764) Provision due to change in portfolio size 47 &#160; (6) 39 &#160; 80 &#160; (9) 71 &#160; Provision due to incremental charge-offs 702 &#160; (3) 14 &#160; 713 &#160; 51 &#160; 764 &#160; Provision due to all other factors (b) 445 &#160; (1) 9 &#160; 453 &#160; 151 &#160; 604 &#160; Total provision for credit losses (c) 1,194 &#160; (10) 62 &#160; 1,246 &#160; 193 &#160; 1,439 &#160; Other 1 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 &#160; (2) (1) Allowance at December 31, 2020 $ 2,902 &#160; $ 33 &#160; $ 73 &#160; $ 3,008 &#160; $ 275 &#160; $ 3,283 &#160; Allowance for loan losses to finance receivables and loans outstanding (d) 3.9 &#160; % 0.2 &#160; % 18.4 &#160; % 3.4 &#160; % 0.9 &#160; % 2.8 &#160; % Net charge-offs to average finance receivables and loans outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2020 1.0 &#160; % &#8212; &#160; % 5.3 &#160; % 0.8 &#160; % 0.2 &#160; % 0.6 &#160; % Allowance for loan losses to total nonperforming finance receivables and loans (d) 231.1 &#160; % 32.7 &#160; % n/m 221.1 &#160; % 171.0 &#160; % 215.8 &#160; % Ratio of allowance for loan losses to net charge-offs at December 31, 2020 4.1 &#160; (13.1) 5.2 &#160; 4.2 &#160; 5.4 &#160; 4.3 &#160; ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our charge-off policies. 

(b) Amounts include provision expense associated with the impacts of COVID-19, as further described in the section above. 

(c) Consumer mortgage provision expense includes $7 million related to Mortgage Finance and a provision benefit of $17 million related to our legacy mortgage portfolio. Commercial provision expense includes $28 million related to commercial automotive and $150 million related to commercial other within the commercial and industrial portfolio class, and $15 million related to commercial real estate. 

(d) Coverage percentages are based on the allowance for loan losses related to finance receivables and loans excluding those loans held at fair value as a percentage of the amortized cost. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents an analysis of the activity in the allowance for loan losses on finance receivables and loans for the year ended December 31, 2019, prior to the adoption of CECL, as defined by the previous accounting guidance in effect at that time. 

##TABLE_START ($ in millions) Consumer automotive Consumer mortgage Consumer other Total consumer Commercial Total Allowance at January 1, 2019 $ 1,048 $ 53 $ &#8212; $ 1,101 $ 141 $ 1,242 Charge-offs (a) (1,423) (13) (5) (1,441) (49) (1,490) Recoveries 493 21 &#8212; 514 &#8212; 514 Net charge-offs (930) 8 (5) (927) (49) (976) Provision for credit losses (b) 957 (13) 14 958 40 998 Other &#8212; (2) &#8212; (2) 1 (1) Allowance at December 31, 2019 $ 1,075 $ 46 $ 9 $ 1,130 $ 133 $ 1,263 Allowance for loan losses to finance receivables and loans outstanding (c) 1.5 % 0.3 % 4.6 % 1.3 % 0.3 % 1.0 % Net charge-offs to average finance receivables and loans outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2019 1.3 % &#8212; % 9.6 % 1.0 % 0.1 % 0.8 % Allowance for loan losses to total nonperforming finance receivables and loans (c) 141.1 % 80.5 % n/m 137.8 % 61.6 % 121.9 % Ratio of allowance for loan losses to net charge-offs at December 31, 2019 1.2 (5.9) 0.5 1.2 2.7 1.3 ##TABLE_END

n/m = not meaningful 

(a) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our charge-off policies. 

(b) Consumer mortgage provision expense includes $5 million related to Mortgage Finance and a provision benefit of $18 million related to our legacy mortgage portfolio. Commercial provision expense includes $8 million related to commercial automotive and $36 million related to commercial other within the commercial and industrial portfolio class, and $4 million in provision benefit related to commercial real estate. 

(c) Coverage percentages are based on the allowance for loan losses related to finance receivables and loans excluding those loans held at fair value as a percentage of the gross carrying value. 

The allowance for consumer loan losses at December 31, 2020, increased $1.9 billion compared to December 31, 2019, reflecting increases of $1.8 billion in the consumer automotive allowance and $64 million in the consumer other allowance, partially offset by a decrease of $13 million in the consumer mortgage allowance. The increase in our consumer allowance was primarily driven by our adoption of CECL, which resulted in a $1.3 billion increase to the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, our consumer allowance for loan losses increased as a result of the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in the consumer mortgage allowance was primarily driven by the decrease in finance receivables of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019. 

The allowance for commercial loan losses increased $142 million at December 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by higher reserves in our commercial other portfolio within the commercial and industrial portfolio class, as well as reserve increases in commercial real estate associated with higher expected losses due to COVID-19 driven market deterioration. 

The provision for consumer loan losses was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $958 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the increase in provision for credit losses was primarily driven by consumer automotive reserve increases associated with higher expected losses due to the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, which were partially offset by lower net charge-offs within our consumer automotive portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the provision for credit losses was also impacted by the adoption of CECL, as further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The provision for commercial loan losses increased $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in provision expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by reserve increases in our commercial portfolios associated with the broad macroeconomic impact resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, which were partially offset by reserve decreases driven by $9.3 billion of lower commercial automotive assets primarily within our floorplan balances. Additionally, provision expense increased as a result of higher provision for specific loan exposures in our commercial other portfolio within the commercial and industrial portfolio class. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Allowance for Loan Losses by Type 

The following table summarizes the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by product type. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

Allowance for loan losses Allowance as a % of loans outstanding Allowance as a % of total allowance for loan losses Allowance for loan losses Allowance as a % of loans outstanding Allowance as a % of total allowance for loan losses Consumer Consumer automotive $ 2,902 &#160; 3.9 &#160; % 88.4 &#160; % $ 1,075 1.5 % 85.1 % Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 21 &#160; 0.1 &#160; 0.6 &#160; 19 0.1 1.5 Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 12 &#160; 2.4 &#160; 0.4 &#160; 27 2.3 2.2 Total consumer mortgage 33 &#160; 0.2 &#160; 1.0 &#160; 46 0.3 3.7 Consumer other 73 &#160; 18.4 &#160; 2.2 &#160; 9 4.6 0.7 Total consumer loans 3,008 &#160; 3.4 &#160; 91.6 &#160; 1,130 1.3 89.5 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 42 &#160; 0.2 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 31 0.1 2.5 Other 190 &#160; 3.6 &#160; 5.8 &#160; 78 1.5 6.1 Commercial real estate 

43 &#160; 0.9 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 24 0.5 1.9 Total commercial loans 275 &#160; 0.9 &#160; 8.4 &#160; 133 0.3 10.5 Total allowance for loan losses $ 3,283 &#160; 2.8 &#160; 100.0 &#160; % $ 1,263 1.0 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Insurance/Underwriting Risk 

The underwriting of our products includes an assessment of the risk to determine acceptability and categorization for appropriate pricing. The acceptability of a particular risk is based on expected losses, expenses and other factors specific to the product in question. With respect to VSCs, considerations include the quality of the vehicles produced, the price of replacement parts, repair labor rates, and new model introductions. Insurance risk also includes event risk, which is synonymous with pure risk, hazard risk, or insurance risk, and presents no chance of gain, only of loss. 

We mitigate losses by the active management of claim settlement activities using experienced claims personnel and the evaluation of current period reported claims. Losses for these events may be compared to prior claims experience, expected claims, or loss expenses from similar incidents to assess the reasonableness of incurred losses. 

In some instances, reinsurance is used to reduce the risk associated with volatile business lines, such as catastrophe risk in vehicle inventory insurance. Our vehicle inventory insurance product is covered by excess-of-loss protection, including catastrophe coverage for weather-related events. In addition, loss control techniques such as storm path monitoring to assist dealers in preparing for severe weather help to mitigate loss potential. 

In accordance with industry and accounting practices and applicable insurance laws and regulatory requirements, we maintain reserves for reported losses, losses incurred but not reported, losses expected to be incurred in the future for contracts in force and loss adjustment expenses. The estimated values of our prior reported loss reserves and changes to the estimated values are routinely monitored by credentialed actuaries. Our reserve estimates are regularly reviewed by management; however, since the reserves are based on estimates and numerous assumptions, the ultimate liability may differ from the amount estimated. 

Market Risk 

Our financing, investing, and insurance activities give rise to market risk, or the potential change in the value of our assets (including securities, assets held-for-sale, loans and operating leases) and liabilities (including deposits and debt) due to movements in market variables, such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign-exchange rates, equity prices, and off-lease vehicle prices. 

The impact of changes in benchmark interest rates on our assets and liabilities (interest rate risk) represents an exposure to market risk and can affect interest rate sensitivities and cash flows when compared to our expectations. We primarily use interest rate derivatives to manage our interest rate risk exposure. 

The fair value of our credit-sensitive assets is also exposed to credit spread risk. Credit spread is the amount of additional return over the benchmark interest rates that an investor would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument. Generally, an increase in credit spreads would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

We are also exposed to foreign-currency risk arising from foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily in Canada. We enter into hedges to mitigate foreign exchange risk. 

We also have exposure to changes in the value of equity securities. We have exposure to equity securities with readily determinable fair values primarily related to our Insurance operations. For such equity securities, we use equity derivatives to manage our exposure to equity price fluctuations. In addition, we are exposed to changes in the value of other equity investments without readily determinable fair market values. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We may experience changes in the valuation of these investments, which may cause volatility in our earnings. 

The composition of our balance sheet, including shorter-duration consumer automotive loans and variable-rate commercial loans, coupled with the continued funding shift toward retail deposits, partially mitigates market risk. Additionally, we maintain risk-management controls that measure and monitor market risk using a variety of analytical techniques including market value, sensitivity analysis, and value at risk models. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

LIBOR Transition 

In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced its intent to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. In November 2020, the administrator of the LIBOR benchmark announced their intention to consult with the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, LIBOR panel banks, and other official sector bodies on a proposal to extend the publication of certain key USD LIBOR tenors until the end of the second quarter of 2023. Additionally in November 2020, the U.S. banking regulators issued guidance encouraging banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances as soon as practicable, but no later than the end of 2021. We continue to make progress in our transition from LIBOR. 

The discontinuation of LIBOR or LIBOR-based rates presents risks to our business, as further described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. In recognition of the significance of LIBOR cessation, Ally has established an enterprise-wide LIBOR transition program that devotes numerous resources throughout all levels of the organization to actively identify, assess, monitor, and mitigate risks associated with this transition. Our program spans across impacted business lines and functions to evaluate risks associated with the transition, while taking into account specific considerations related to our customers, products and instruments, and counterparty exposures. Through this program, we continue to assess and plan for potential impacts to our existing and future contracts with customers and counterparties, financial forecasts, operational processes, technology, modeling, and vendor relationships. Our program is also subject to the governance and oversight of our Board through the RC and certain executive committees, including the ALCO and the ERMC. 

Our current exposure to LIBOR-based contracts is concentrated within certain of our finance receivables and loans, primarily related to commercial automotive loans, corporate-finance loans, and mortgage loans, among other arrangements. Our commercial automotive loan portfolio is primarily composed of wholesale floorplan financing to automotive dealers. A significant portion of our wholesale floorplan finance receivables are currently invoiced utilizing a LIBOR-based reference rate and, as such, represents our largest exposure to LIBOR based on notional dollar amount. Smaller loan portfolios that utilize contracts containing LIBOR-based reference rates include our corporate-finance loans and lending commitments, and our adjustable-rate mortgage loans. With respect to our liabilities, we have issued trust preferred securities with an interest rate linked to LIBOR and also have secured facilities and certain asset-backed securitizations that also contain LIBOR-based reference rates. We are taking steps to prepare for LIBOR&#8217;s discontinuance, through monitoring industry developments and their potential impact to us, ensuring the inclusion of LIBOR fallback language within our contracts, and continuing to reduce our LIBOR exposure through strategic actions. For example, in December 2020, we executed the sale of a pool of adjustable-rate mortgage loans that are tied to LIBOR, and have ceased funding mortgage loans using LIBOR. 

We are evaluating the Prime rate and SOFR, among other alternatives and actions, as alternative reference rates for our customers, and are taking steps to assess the operational, financial, and various other impacts this change could have across each of our business lines. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we began offering conforming adjustable-rate mortgage loans using SOFR through our direct-to-consumer channel, which are held for sale. 

We are also actively assessing how the discontinuation of LIBOR could impact accounting and financial reporting including, but not limited to, potential impacts to our hedge accounting, valuation or modeling, or impacts associated with modifying the terms of our loan agreements or debt instruments with our customers or counterparties. We also continue to monitor the activities of the standard setters such as the FASB, which has issued new accounting standard updates that provide targeted relief related to the transition away from LIBOR. For example, the FASB issued ASU 2018-16, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Overnight Index Swap (OIS) Rate as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes , which permits the use of the OIS rate based on the SOFR to be designated as a benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes. In addition, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting , which is intended to help facilitate the market transition from existing reference interest rates to alternative reference interest rates. The amendments provide optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met. The amendments primarily include relief related to contract modifications, hedging relationships, and it also provides a one-time election for the sale or transfer of debt securities classified as held-to-maturity. This guidance is effective immediately and the amendments may be applied prospectively through December 31, 2022. In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-01, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848) : Scope , which clarified the scope of ASU 2020-04 indicating that certain optional expedients and exceptions included in ASU 2020-04 are applicable to derivative instruments affected by the market-wide change in interest rates used for discounting, margining, or contract price alignment. We are currently in the process of evaluating the amendments and we anticipate they will facilitate the transition away from LIBOR. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis 

The following table presents a fair value sensitivity analysis of our assets and liabilities using isolated hypothetical movements in specific market rates. The analysis assumes adverse instantaneous, parallel shifts in market-exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and equity prices. Additionally, since only adverse fair value impacts are included, the natural offset between asset and liability rate sensitivities that arise within a diversified balance sheet, such as ours, may not be considered. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Financial instruments exposed to changes in: Interest rates Estimated fair value (a) (a) Effect of 10% adverse change in rates (a) (a) Foreign-currency exchange rates Estimated fair value $ 452 &#160; $ 408 Effect of 10% adverse change in rates (14) (15) Equity prices Estimated fair value $ 1,112 &#160; $ 663 Effect of 10% decrease in prices (108) (66) ##TABLE_END

(a) Refer to the section below titled Net Financing Revenue Sensitivity Analysis for information on the interest rate sensitivity of our financial instruments. 

Net Financing Revenue Sensitivity Analysis 

Interest rate risk represents one of our most significant exposures to market risk. We actively monitor the level of exposure to movements in interest rates and take actions to mitigate adverse impacts these movements may have on future earnings. We use a sensitivity analysis of net financing revenue as our primary metric to measure and manage the interest rate risk of our financial instruments. 

We prepare forward-looking baseline forecasts of net financing revenue taking into consideration anticipated future business growth, asset/liability positioning, and interest rates based on the implied forward curve. The analysis is highly dependent upon a variety of assumptions including the repricing characteristics of retail deposits with both contractual and non-contractual maturities. We continually monitor industry and competitive repricing activity along with other market factors when contemplating deposit pricing actions. 

Simulations are then used to assess changes in net financing revenue in multiple interest rate scenarios relative to the baseline forecast. The changes in net financing revenue relative to the baseline are defined as the sensitivity. Our simulations incorporate contractual cash flows and repricing characteristics for all assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet exposures and incorporate the effects of changing interest rates on the prepayment and attrition rates of certain assets and liabilities. Our simulation does not assume any specific future actions are taken to mitigate the impacts of changing interest rates. 

The net financing revenue sensitivity tests measure the potential change in our pretax net financing revenue over the following 12 months. We test a number of alternative rate scenarios, including immediate and gradual parallel shocks to the implied market forward curve. Management also evaluates nonparallel shocks to interest rates and stresses to certain term points on the yield curve in isolation to capture and monitor a number of risk types. Relative to our baseline forecast, which is based on the implied forward curve, our net financing revenue over the next 12 months would decrease by $8 million if interest rates remain unchanged. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents the pretax dollar impact to forecasted net financing revenue over the next 12 months assuming various shocks to the implied market forward curve as of December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019. 

##TABLE_START Gradual (a) Instantaneous Change in interest rates ($ in millions) December 31, 2020 +200 basis points $ 70 &#160; $ 64 &#160; 

+100 basis points 

32 &#160; 68 &#160; -25 basis points (b) (3) (40) December 31, 2019 +200 basis points $ 2 $ (136) 

+100 basis points 

(1) 7 -100 basis points 17 67 ##TABLE_END

(a) Gradual changes in interest rates are recognized over 12 months. 

(b) With rates at or near historical lows, a scenario with rates declining 25 basis points is being utilized, which management believes is more meaningful to understand exposure to lower rates in the current market rate environment rather than the down 100 basis point scenario. Our models currently assume rates do not go below zero. 

The implied forward rate curve was significantly lower across all tenors compared to December 31, 2019, as interest rates were at or near historical lows across the curve. The impact of this change is reflected in our baseline net financing revenue projections. As of December 31, 2020, the expected benefit of an upward instantaneous interest rate shock scenario has increased, primarily due to changes to our derivative hedging position, higher cash balances, as well as our continued shift in funding to retail deposits. 

The exposure in the downward instantaneous interest rate shock scenario is largely driven by mortgage prepayment risk and is muted as our models assume rates do not go below zero. 

Our risk position is influenced by the impact of hedging activity which primarily consists of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate assets and fixed-rate debt instruments, and pay-fixed interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges of certain floating-rate debt instruments. We also have the ability to utilize interest rate floor contracts designated as cash flow hedges on certain floating-rate assets. The size, maturity, and mix of our hedging activities are adjusted as our balance sheet, ALM objectives, and interest rate environment evolve over time. 

Operating Lease Residual Risk Management 

We are exposed to residual risk on vehicles in the consumer operating lease portfolio. This operating lease residual risk represents the possibility that the actual proceeds realized upon the sale of returned vehicles will be lower than the projection of these values used in establishing the pricing at lease inception. However in certain instances, some automotive manufacturers have provided their guarantee for portions of our residual exposure, as further described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our operating lease portfolio, net of accumulated depreciation was $9.6 billion and $8.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. The expected lease residual value of our operating lease portfolio at scheduled termination was $7.9 billion and $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. For information on our valuation of automotive operating lease residuals including periodic revisions through adjustments to depreciation expense based on current and forecasted market conditions, refer to the section titled Critical Accounting Estimates &#8212; Valuation of Automotive Operating Lease Assets and Residuals within this MD&#38;A. 

&#8226; Priced residual value projections &#160;&#8212; At contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the leased vehicle. This evaluation uses a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and unanticipated shifts in used vehicle supply, as well as expert judgment. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, independent data for reasonableness. Periodically, we revise the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions and adjust depreciation expense over the remaining life of the contract as necessary. At termination, our actual sales proceeds from remarketing the vehicle may be higher or lower than the estimated residual value resulting in a gain or loss on remarketing recorded through depreciation expense. 

&#8226; Remarketing abilities &#160;&#8212; Our ability to efficiently process and effectively market off-lease vehicles affects the disposal costs and the proceeds realized from vehicle sales. Vehicles can be remarketed through auction (internet and physical), sale to dealer, sale to lessee, and other methods. The results within these channels vary, with physical auction typically resulting in the lowest-priced outcome. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; Manufacturer vehicle and marketing programs &#160;&#8212; Automotive manufacturers influence operating lease residual results in the following ways: 

&#9702; The brand image of automotive manufacturers and consumer demand for their products affects residual risk. 

&#9702; The discontinuation of, or stylistic changes to, a certain make or model may affect the value of existing vehicles. 

&#9702; Automotive manufacturer marketing programs may influence the used vehicle market for those vehicles through programs such as incentives on new vehicles, programs designed to encourage lessees to terminate their operating leases early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new vehicle (referred to as pull-ahead programs), and special rate used vehicle programs. 

&#8226; Used vehicle market &#160;&#8212; We have exposure to changes in used vehicle prices. General economic conditions, used vehicle supply and demand, and new vehicle market prices heavily influence used vehicle prices. 

Operating Lease Vehicle Terminations and Remarketing 

The following table summarizes the volume of operating lease terminations and average gain per vehicle, as well as our methods of vehicle sales at lease termination, stated as a percentage of total operating lease vehicle disposals. 

##TABLE_START Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 

Off-lease vehicles terminated (in units) 

106,601 &#160; 113,114 135,365 

Average gain per vehicle ($ per unit) 

$ 1,193 &#160; $ 607 $ 661 Method of vehicle sales Auction Internet 53 &#160; % 53 % 52 % Physical 10 &#160; 15 15 Sale to dealer, lessee, and other 37 &#160; 32 33 ##TABLE_END

We recognized an average gain per vehicle of $1,193 for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to an average gain per vehicle of $607 for the same period in 2019. The increases in remarketing performance were primarily due to continued new vehicle supply constraints and an increase in demand for used vehicles during the second half of the year. The number of off-lease vehicles remarketed during the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased 6%, compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to reduced early termination activity resulting from continued new vehicle supply constraints. We expect positive trends in remarketing performance to continue in the near term and, as a result, have adjusted the rate of depreciation expense to recognize lower lifetime depreciation on vehicles scheduled to terminate through December 31, 2021. 

To support our customers and help mitigate lease residual risk, we deferred lease payments without fees for up to 120 days for any consumer requesting assistance related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Approximately 55,000 of our lease customers enrolled in this lease modification program, and approximately 60% of these customers were granted a 120-day deferral at the time of enrollment. As of December 31, 2020, substantially all of these customers had exited the program and of these approximately 5,500 had paid in full and terminated their leases. Of the customers that had exited the program with outstanding lease obligations, 93% were current on their lease obligations as of December 31, 2020. We also provided a program for and, in some cases, incentivized customers nearing their scheduled lease-end dates to extend their leases for up to an additional 180 days. Eligible customers who opted into this program during the early part of the second quarter of 2020 were not charged for the first month of the extension, and the following months of the extended lease were offered under the terms of the existing lease contract. Approximately 8,500 customers had opted into an extension requiring additional payments, and as of December 31, 2020, approximately 900 remained enrolled in the program. 

Operating Lease Portfolio Mix 

We monitor the concentration of our outstanding operating leases. The following table presents the mix of operating lease assets by vehicle type, based on volume of units outstanding. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Sport utility vehicle 57 &#160; % 58 % 57 % Truck 34 &#160; 32 31 Car 9 &#160; 10 12 ##TABLE_END

As a result of the runoff of our legacy GM operating lease portfolio, our exposure to Chrysler vehicles represented approximately 89% and 92% of our operating lease units as of December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. 

Business/Strategic Risk 

Business/strategic risk is embedded in every facet of our organization and is one of our primary risk types. It is the risk resulting from the pursuit of business activities that turn out to be unsuccessful due to a variety of both controllable and non-controllable factors. We aim to 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

mitigate this risk within our business lines through portfolio diversification, product innovations, close monitoring of the execution of our strategic and capital plan, and ensuring flexibility of the cost base. 

Our strategic plan is reviewed and approved annually by our Board, as are the capital plan and financial business plan. With oversight by our Board, executive management seeks to consistently apply core operating principles while executing our strategic plan within the risk appetite approved by the RC. The executive management team continuously monitors business performance throughout the year to assess strategic risk and find early warning signals so that risks can be proactively managed. Executive management regularly reviews actual performance versus the plan, updates our Board via reporting routines, and implements changes as deemed appropriate. 

Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and recovery and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by our Board as required. At the business level, as we introduce new products, we monitor their performance relative to expectations. With oversight by our Board, executive management evaluates changes to the financial forecast and risk, capital, and liquidity positions throughout the year. 

Reputation Risk 

Reputation risk is the risk arising from negative public opinion on our business practices, whether true or not, that could cause a decline in the customer base, litigation, or revenue reductions. Reputation risk may result from many of our activities, including those related to the management of our business/strategic, operational, and credit risks. We manage reputation risk through established policies and controls in our businesses and risk-management processes to mitigate reputation risks in a timely manner through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputation risk events. We have established processes and procedures to respond to events that give rise to reputation risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputation risks. Primary responsibility for the identification, escalation, and resolution of reputation risk issues resides with our business lines. Our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values and &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy further strengthen our efforts to mitigate reputational risks by promoting a transparent culture so that any associate, at any time, can and should call attention to risks that need to be addressed and taken into account. Our organization and governance structures provide oversight of reputation risks, and key risk indicators are reported regularly and directly to management and the RC, which provide primary oversight of reputation risk. 

Operational Risk 

Operational risk is the risk of loss or harm arising from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events and is inherent in all of our risk-generating activities. Such risk can manifest in various ways, including errors, business interruptions, and inappropriate behavior of employees, and can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to us. Operational risk includes business disruption risk, fraud risk, human capital risk, legal risk, model risk, process execution and management risk, and supplier (third party) risk. 

&#8226; Business disruption risk &#8212; The risk of significant disruption to our operations resulting from natural disasters, pandemics, external technology outages, or other external events. 

&#8226; Fraud risk &#8212; The risk from deliberate misrepresentation or concealment of information material to a transaction with the intent to deceive another and that is reasonably relied on or used in decision making. Fraud can occur internally (for example, employees) or externally (for example, criminal activity, third-party suppliers). 

&#8226; Human capital risk &#8212; The risk caused by high turnover, inadequate or improper staffing levels, departure/unavailability of key personnel, or inadequate training and includes our exposure to worker&#8217;s compensation and employment litigation. 

&#8226; Legal risk &#8212; The risk arising from the potential that unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, or adverse judgments can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect our operations or condition. 

&#8226; Model risk &#8212; The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model assumptions, inputs, outputs, and reports. This risk may include fundamental errors within the model that produce inaccurate outputs or that the model is used incorrectly or inappropriately. 

&#8226; Process execution and management risk &#8212; The risk caused by failure to execute or adhere to policies, standards, procedures, processes, controls, and activities as designed and documented. 

&#8226; Supplier (third party) risk &#8212; The risk associated with third-party suppliers and their delivery of products or services and effect on overall business performance. This includes a supplier&#8217;s failure to comply with information technology requirements, information and physical security, laws, rules, regulations, and legal agreements. 

To monitor and mitigate such risk, we maintain a system of policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. This framework employs practices and tools designed to maintain risk identification, risk governance, risk and control assessment, risk testing and monitoring, and transparency through risk reporting mechanisms. The goal is to maintain operational risk at appropriate levels based on our financial strength, the characteristics of the businesses and the markets in which we operate, and the related competitive and regulatory environment. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Information Technology/Security Risk 

Information technology/security risk includes risk resulting from the failure of, or insufficiency in, information technology (for example, a system outage) or intentional or accidental unauthorized access, sharing, removal, tampering, or disposal of company and customer data or records. 

We and our service providers rely extensively on communications, data-management, and other operating systems and infrastructure to conduct our business and operations. Failures or disruptions to these systems or infrastructure from cyberattacks or other events may impede our ability to conduct business and operations and may result in business, reputational, financial, regulatory, or other harm. 

We and other financial institutions continue to be the target of various cyberattacks, including through the introduction of malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service, or other security breaches, as part of an effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions or obtain confidential, proprietary, or other information or assets of the Company, our customers, employees, or other third parties with whom we transact. 

Cybersecurity and the continued development of our controls, processes, and systems to protect our technology infrastructure, customer information, and other proprietary information or assets remain a critical and ongoing priority. We recognize that cyber-related risks continue to evolve and have become increasingly sophisticated, and as a result we continuously evaluate the adequacy of our preventive and detective measures. 

In order to help mitigate cybersecurity risks, we devote substantial resources to protect the Company from cyber-related incidents. We regularly assess vulnerabilities and threats to our environment utilizing various resources including independent third-party assessments to evaluate whether our layered system of controls effectively mitigates risk. We also invest in new technologies and infrastructure in order to respond to evolving risks within our environment. We continue to partner with other industry peers in order to share knowledge and information to further our security environment and invest in training and employee awareness to cyber-related risks. Additionally, as a further protective measure, we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to terms and conditions, may cover certain aspects of cybersecurity and information risks; however, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses. Management monitors operational metrics and data surrounding cybersecurity operations, and the organization monitors compliance with established limits in connection with our risk appetite. Senior leadership regularly reviews, questions, and challenges such information. 

The RC reviews cybersecurity risks, incidents, and developments in connection with its oversight of our independent risk-management program. Our Board and the AC also undertake reviews as appropriate. The Information Technology Risk Committee is responsible for supporting the Chief Risk Officer&#8217;s oversight of our management of cybersecurity and other risks involving our communications, data-management, and other operating systems and infrastructure. Additionally, our cybersecurity program is regularly assessed by Audit Services, which reports directly to the AC. The business lines are also actively engaged in overseeing the service providers that supply or support the operating systems and infrastructure on which we depend and, with effective challenge from the independent risk-management function, managing related operational and other risks. 

Notwithstanding these risk and control initiatives, we may incur losses attributable to information technology/security risk from time to time, and there can be no assurance these losses will not be incurred in the future or will not be substantial. For further information on cybersecurity, technology, systems, and infrastructure, refer to the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. 

During the first quarter of 2020, we implemented a new technology platform for our consumer automotive loans and operating leases that is utilized for customer servicing and financial reporting through the full lifecycle of these loans and leases. This new platform replaced our legacy platform and helped us modernize our technology, enhanced our flexibility and capabilities, and streamlined aspects of our servicing operations. While this new platform will help us continue to expand our capabilities, there are inherent risks in implementing any new system such as this. We continue to monitor the newly implemented platform to ensure that the system continues to perform as expected. 

Compliance Risk 

Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to the banking organization (applicable rules and standards). Examples of such risks include compliance with regulations set forth by banking agencies including fair and responsible banking, anti-money laundering, or community reinvestment act, risks associated with offering our products or services, or risks associated with deviating from internal policies and procedures including those that are established to promote sound risk-management and internal-control practices. Compliance risk also includes fiduciary risk, which includes risks arising from our duty to exercise loyalty, act in the best interest of our clients, and care for assets according to an appropriate standard of care. This risk generally exists to the extent that we exercise discretion in managing assets on behalf of a customer. 

We recognize that an effective compliance program, including driving a culture of compliance, plays a key role in managing and overseeing compliance risk, and that a proactive compliance environment and program are essential to help meet various legal, regulatory, or other requirements or expectations. To manage compliance risk, we maintain a system of policies, change-management protocols, control frameworks, and other formal governance structures designed to provide a holistic enterprise approach to managing such risks, which includes consideration of identifying, assessing, monitoring, and communicating compliance risks throughout the Company. Our compliance function provides independent, enterprise-wide oversight of compliance-risk exposures and related risk-management practices and is led by the Chief Compliance Officer who reports to our Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer has the authority and responsibility 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

for the oversight and administration of our Enterprise Compliance Program, which includes ongoing reporting of significant compliance-related matters to our Board and various committees established to govern compliance-related risks. The Compliance Risk Management Committee, established by the Chief Compliance Officer, serves to facilitate compliance risk management and to oversee the implementation of our compliance risk-management strategies and covers compliance matters across the enterprise including matters impacting customers, products, geographies, and services. 

Conduct Risk 

Conduct risk is the risk of customer harm, employee harm, reputational damage, regulatory sanction, or financial loss resulting from the behavior of our employees and contractors toward customers, counterparties, other employees and contractors, or the markets in which we operate. 

Management is responsible for driving a culture consistent with our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values and &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; philosophy (otherwise known as our &#8220;Tone from the Top&#8221;). We maintain an enterprise-wide Conduct Risk Management program that establishes the requirements for managing conduct risk. 

Under our governance framework, incentive compensation is subject to review and recoupment to ensure that incentive compensation award outcomes appropriately consider and do not encourage imprudent risk-taking. All incentive pay, whether paid or unpaid, vested or not vested, is subject to recoupment if based on, without limitation, material misstatements, misrepresentations, or fraud, or if the employee recipient failed to identify, raise, or assess issues with respect to financial loss or reputational risk to us or otherwise engaged in or contributed to other conduct adverse to us. 

We manage conduct risk through a variety of enterprise programs, policies, and procedures. Associates complete required training at on-boarding, and annually thereafter, to affirm their compliance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics. Training programs and other resources set expectations surrounding appropriate conduct, ethical behavior, and a culture of compliance with applicable laws, regulations, policies, and standards. Officers and employees are expected to take personal responsibility for maintaining the highest standards of honesty, trustworthiness, and ethical behavior; to understand and manage the risks associated with their positions; and to escalate concerns about risk management (including reporting of potential violations of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, our policies, or other laws and regulations). Employee conduct is considered through various human resources and management activities including associate recruiting, on-boarding, performance management, incentive programs and compensation, conflicts of interest, and corrective action. Oversight of conduct risk is performed by Enterprise Risk Management. 

Employee engagement surveys provide valuable insight into employee views and opinions about the company&#8217;s culture and conduct. The Ethics Hotline (independently managed, available to associates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week) and Open-Door Process provide avenues for employees to report concerns or incidents of potential misconduct. Human Resources, Employee Relations, and Enterprise Fraud, Security, and Investigations have established processes and procedures for investigating and addressing cases of potential fraud or employee misconduct. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Liquidity Management, Funding, and Regulatory Capital 

Overview 

The purpose of liquidity management is to enable us to meet loan and operating lease demand, debt maturities, deposit withdrawals, and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions as well as periods of economic or financial stress. Our primary objective is to maintain cost-effective, stable and diverse sources of funding capable of sustaining the organization throughout all market cycles. Sources of funding include both retail and brokered deposits and secured and unsecured market-based funding across various maturity, interest rate, and investor profiles. Additional liquidity is available through a pool of unencumbered highly liquid securities, committed secured credit facilities, repurchase agreements, and advances from the FHLB of Pittsburgh. 

We define liquidity risk as the risk that an institution&#8217;s financial condition or overall safety and soundness is adversely affected by the actual or perceived inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding or to easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions. Liquidity risk can arise from a variety of institution-specific or market-related events that could have a negative impact on cash flows available to the organization. Effective management of liquidity risk positions an organization to meet cash flow obligations caused by unanticipated events. Managing liquidity needs and contingent funding exposures has proven essential to the solvency of financial institutions. 

The ALCO, chaired by the Corporate Treasurer, is responsible for overseeing our funding and liquidity strategies. Corporate Treasury is responsible for managing our liquidity positions within limits approved by ALCO and the RC. As part of managing liquidity risk, Corporate Treasury prepares periodic forecasts depicting anticipated funding needs and sources of funds, executes our funding strategies, and manages liquidity under normal as well as more severely stressed macroeconomic environments. Oversight and monitoring of liquidity risk are provided by Independent Risk Management. 

Funding Strategy 

Liquidity and ongoing profitability are largely dependent on the timely and cost-effective access to retail deposits and funding in various segments of the capital markets. We focus on maintaining diversified funding sources across a broad base of depositors, lenders, and investors to meet liquidity needs throughout different economic cycles, including periods of financial distress. These funding sources include retail and brokered deposits, committed secured credit facilities, public and private asset-backed securitizations, unsecured debt, FHLB advances, whole-loan sales, demand notes, and repurchase agreements. Our access to diversified funding sources enhances funding flexibility and results in a more cost-effective funding strategy over the long term. We evaluate funding markets on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate balance of unsecured and secured funding sources and maturity profiles. 

We manage our funding to achieve a well-balanced portfolio across a spectrum of risk, maturity, and cost-of-funds characteristics. Optimizing funding at Ally Bank continues to be a key part of our long-term liquidity strategy. We optimize our funding sources at Ally Bank by growing retail deposits, maintaining active public and private securitization programs, managing a prudent maturity profile of our brokered deposit portfolio, utilizing repurchase agreements, and continuing to access funds from the FHLB. 

Essentially all asset originations are directed to Ally Bank to reduce parent company exposures and funding requirements, and to utilize our growing consumer deposit-taking capabilities. This allows us to use bank funding for an increasing proportion of our automotive finance and other assets and to provide a sustainable long-term funding channel for the business, while also improving the cost of funds for the enterprise. 

Liquidity Risk Management 

Multiple metrics are used to measure liquidity risk, manage the liquidity position, identify related trends, and monitor such trends and metrics against established limits. These metrics include comprehensive stress tests that measure the sufficiency of the liquidity portfolio over stressed horizons ranging from overnight to 12 months, stability ratios that measure longer-term structural liquidity, and concentration ratios that enable prudent funding diversification. In addition, we have established internal management routines designed to review all aspects of liquidity and funding plans, evaluate the adequacy of liquidity buffers, review stress testing results, and assist management in the execution of its funding strategy and risk-management accountabilities. 

Our liquidity stress testing is designed to allow us to operate our businesses and to meet our contractual and contingent obligations, including unsecured debt maturities, for at least 12 months, assuming our normal access to funding is disrupted by severe market-wide and enterprise-specific events. We maintain available liquidity in the form of cash, unencumbered highly liquid securities, and available committed secured credit facility capacity. This available liquidity is held at various legal entities, and is subject to regulatory restrictions and tax implications that may limit our ability to transfer funds across entities. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table summarizes our cash, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and committed credit facilities. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 

Unencumbered highly liquid U.S. federal government and U.S. agency securities 

$ 24,763 &#160; $ 24,713 

Liquid cash and equivalents 

14,945 &#160; 3,136 

Committed secured credit facilities 

Total capacity 

560 &#160; 2,500 Outstanding 

&#8212; &#160; 450 Unused capacity (a) 

560 &#160; 2,050 

Total available liquidity 

$ 40,268 &#160; $ 29,899 ##TABLE_END

(a) Funding from committed secured credit facilities is available on request in the event excess collateral resides in certain facilities or the extent incremental collateral is available and contributed to the facilities. 

Recent Funding Developments 

During March 2020, the spread of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic. This global health crisis has resulted in economic disruption and volatility in the capital markets. While credit spreads for longer-term funding sources such as unsecured debt and ABS issuance increased significantly initially, FRB actions in response to the disruptions reduced credit spreads and improved market liquidity. These actions included providing significant quantitative-easing programs, expanding the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility to include a wider range of securities, broadening the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, launching new funds and facilities to support employers, consumers and businesses, and establishing the Term Asset-Backed Loan Facility to facilitate ABS issuance of student, automotive, credit card, and small business loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. We continue to closely monitor market conditions, and actions taken by banking agencies to support general market liquidity. In recent years, we have become less reliant on market-based funding and believe we have adequate liquidity to meet our near-term funding needs. However, it is not currently clear to what degree the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our future funding profile if market dislocation recurs. 

Key funding highlights from January 1, 2020, to date were as follows: 

&#8226; For the year ended December 31, 2020, we accessed the unsecured debt capital markets and raised approximately $2.8 billion through the issuance of senior notes, which provided additional liquidity at Ally Financial Inc. 

&#8226; During the second half of 2020, we elected to prepay and early terminate 25 FHLB advances with an aggregate principal balance of $4.3 billion, to more cost-effectively manage liquidity at Ally Bank. 

&#8226; Our total capacity in committed secured credit facilities was reduced by $1.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020, as we continue to shift our overall funding toward a greater mix of cost-effective deposit funding. 

Funding Sources 

The following table summarizes our sources of funding and the amount outstanding under each category for the periods shown. 

##TABLE_START On-balance-sheet funding % Share of funding 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2020 2019 Deposits $ 137,036 &#160; $ 120,752 85 &#160; 75 Debt Secured financings 9,992 &#160; 25,773 6 &#160; 16 Institutional term debt 11,654 &#160; 10,933 7 &#160; 7 Retail debt programs (a) 2,496 &#160; 2,852 2 &#160; 2 Total debt (b) 24,142 &#160; 39,558 15 &#160; 25 Total on-balance-sheet funding $ 161,178 &#160; $ 160,310 100 &#160; 100 ##TABLE_END

(a) Includes $360 million and $271 million of retail term notes at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. 

(b) Includes hedge basis adjustment as described in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the scheduled maturity of long-term debt at December 31, 2020. 

Deposits 

Ally Bank is a digital direct bank with no branch network that obtains retail deposits directly from customers through internet, telephone, mobile, and mail channels. We offer competitive rates and fees on a full spectrum of retail deposit products, including online savings accounts, money market demand accounts, CDs, interest-bearing checking accounts, trust accounts, and IRAs. In addition to providing customers with valuable products and digital services, retail deposits provide a key funding source for Ally Bank as it continues to diversify 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

its funding profile and reduce its reliance on more expensive and rate-sensitive funding, providing our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, Corporate Finance, and Ally Lending businesses with a stable and low-cost funding source. We believe retail deposits are less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility, or changes in credit ratings when compared to other funding sources. In addition, we utilize brokered deposits, which are obtained through third-party intermediaries, including a deposit related to Ally Invest customer cash balances. 

The following table shows Ally Bank&#8217;s number of accounts and deposit balances as of the end of each of the last five quarters. 

##TABLE_START 4th quarter 2020 3rd quarter 2020 2nd quarter 2020 1st quarter 2020 4th quarter 2019 Number of retail bank accounts (in thousands) 

4,476 &#160; 4,425 4,335 4,185 4,006 

Deposits ($ in millions) 

Retail $ 124,357 &#160; $ 120,789 $ 115,813 $ 106,068 $ 103,734 Brokered (a) 12,551 &#160; 13,990 15,088 16,116 16,898 Other (b) 128 &#160; 159 135 140 120 Total deposits $ 137,036 &#160; $ 134,938 $ 131,036 $ 122,324 $ 120,752 ##TABLE_END

(a) Brokered deposit balances include a deposit related to Ally Invest customer cash balances deposited at Ally Bank by a third party of $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2020, $1.8 billion as of both September 30, 2020, and June 30, 2020, $1.5 billion as of March 31, 2020, and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2019. 

(b) Other deposits include mortgage escrow and other deposits. 

During 2020, our total deposit base grew $16.3 billion and we added approximately 282,000 retail deposit customers, ending with 2.3 million retail deposit customers as of December 31, 2020. The growth in total deposits has been driven by strong growth in retail deposits, which was partially offset by a reduction in brokered deposits. Total retail deposits increased $20.6 billion, primarily within our online savings product, bringing the total retail deposits portfolio to $124.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Strong customer acquisition and retention rates, reflecting the strength of the brand, continue to drive growth in retail deposits, while 2020 balance growth was supported by broad economic stimulus measures and muted spending. 

As demonstrated by the launch of our smart savings tools in early 2020, we continue to advance our digital capabilities and deliver incremental value to our customers beyond competitive rates. In June 2020, Kiplinger named Ally Bank the &#8220;Best Internet Bank&#8221; for the fourth consecutive year, and in October 2020, MONEY&#174; Magazine named Ally the &#8220;Best Online Bank&#8221; for the eighth time in the past ten years. For additional information on our deposit funding by type, refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Securitizations and Secured Financings 

In addition to building a larger deposit base, we maintain a presence in the securitization markets to finance our automotive loan portfolios. Securitizations and secured funding transactions, collectively referred to as securitization transactions due to their similarities, allow us to convert our automotive-finance receivables and operating leases into cash earlier than what would have occurred in the normal course of business. 

As part of these securitization transactions, we sell assets to various SPEs in exchange for the proceeds from the issuance of debt and other beneficial interests in the assets. The activities of the SPEs are generally limited to acquiring the assets, issuing and making payments on the debt, paying related expenses, and periodically reporting to investors. 

These SPEs are separate legal entities that assume the risks and rewards of ownership of the receivables they hold. The assets of the SPEs are not available to satisfy our claims or those of our creditors. In addition, the SPEs do not invest in our equity or in the equity of any of our affiliates. Our economic exposure related to the SPEs is generally limited to cash reserves, retained interests, and customary representation, warranty, and covenant provisions. 

We typically agree to service the assets transferred in our securitization transactions for a fee, and we may be entitled to other related fees. The total amount of servicing fees earned is disclosed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may also retain a portion of senior and subordinated interests issued by the SPEs. Subordinate interests typically provide credit support to the more highly rated senior interest in a securitization transaction and may be subject to all or a portion of the first-loss position related to the sold assets. 

These securitization transactions may meet the criteria to be accounted for as off-balance-sheet securitization transactions if we do not hold a potentially significant economic interest or do not provide servicing or asset management functions for the financial assets held by the securitization entity. Certain of our securitization transactions do not meet the required criteria to be accounted for as off-balance-sheet securitization transactions; therefore, they are accounted for as secured borrowings. For information regarding our securitization activities, refer to Note 1 and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We manage securitization execution risk by maintaining a diverse domestic and foreign investor base and available capacity from committed secured credit facilities provided by banks. Our ability to access the unused capacity in these facilities depends on the availability of eligible assets to collateralize the incremental funding and, in some instances, on the execution of interest rate hedges. We maintain bilateral facilities, which fund our Automotive Finance operations. The facilities can be revolving in nature&#8212;generally having an original 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

tenor ranging from 364 days to two years and allowing for additional funding during the commitment period&#8212;or they can be amortizing and not allow for any further funding after the commitment period. At December 31, 2020, all of our $560 million of capacity was revolving and of this balance, $200 million was from facilities with a remaining tenor greater than 364 days. 

Our securitizations of commercial automotive loans are issued through a single master trust and include credit-enhancement triggers as well as early-repayment triggers, referred to as early amortization events. Following an early amortization event, principal collections on the loans in the applicable securitizations are applied to repay principal of the trust&#8217;s asset-backed securities rather than to purchase newly originated loans. One of the early amortization events is based on the rates of inventory turnover at our dealer customers, referred to as payment rates. Because the COVID-19 pandemic is placing downward pressure on the automotive sales of dealers and therefore their rate of inventory turnover, an increased risk exists that an early amortization event could occur. In such a case, our ability to issue new securitizations out of this trust would be constrained or eliminated and our ability to fund commercial automotive loans through the securitization market could be delayed while we establish a new trust. In addition, the mere occurrence of an early amortization event could impair our ability to access the securitization market or increase our cost to do so. At this time, none of these securitizations have experienced an early amortization event. 

The majority of our securitizations, including our secured bilateral financing facilities, involve consumer automotive loans. We retain exposure to the nonperformance of these loans through subordinated retained interests in the securitizations as well as obligations to repurchase loans affected by breaches of representations, warranties, or covenants. The secured bilateral financing facilities also include credit-enhancement triggers and revolving period termination events based on the nonperformance of loans. With the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affecting some of our consumer automotive customers and with a significant number of them having enrolled in our loan-deferral program, these securitizations may become more likely to experience a deterioration in loan performance and downgrades by rating agencies. In addition, the secured bilateral financing facilities may become more likely to experience the activation of credit-enhancement triggers and revolving period termination events. Any of these outcomes could have negative impacts on noteholders and us, including in our case a potential for higher pricing and less market access for future securitizations. 

We also have access to funding through advances with the FHLB. These advances are primarily secured by consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans and investment securities. As of December 31, 2020, we had pledged $20.0 billion of assets to the FHLB resulting in $14.7 billion in total funding capacity with $5.9 billion of debt outstanding. 

At December 31, 2020, $35.8 billion of our total assets were restricted as collateral for the payment of debt obligations accounted for as secured borrowings. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Unsecured Financings 

We have short-term and long-term unsecured debt outstanding from retail term note programs. These programs are composed of callable fixed-rate instruments with fixed maturity dates. There were $360 million of retail term notes outstanding at December 31, 2020. In 2020, we accessed the unsecured debt capital markets four times, and collectively raised and raised $2.8 billion through the issuance of senior notes composed of institutional term debt. We have also historically obtained unsecured funding from the sale of floating-rate demand notes under our demand notes program. The holder has the option to require us to redeem these notes at any time without restriction. In December 2020, we announced that we are terminating the offering of our demand notes program, and redeeming in full all outstanding demand notes as of March 1, 2021. Holders may continue to demand repayment of demand notes at any time in advance of the redemption date. Demand notes outstanding were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term unsecured debt. 

Other Secured and Unsecured Short-term Borrowings 

We have access to repurchase agreements. A repurchase agreement is a transaction in which the firm sells financial instruments to a buyer, typically in exchange for cash, and simultaneously enters into an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same financial instruments from the buyer at a stated price plus accrued interest at a future date. The securities sold in repurchase agreements include U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of December 31, 2020, we had no debt outstanding under repurchase agreements. 

Additionally, we have access to the FRB Discount Window and can borrow funds to meet short-term liquidity demands. However, the FRB is not a primary source of funding for day-to-day business. Instead, it is a liquidity source that can be accessed in stressed environments or periods of market disruption. We had assets pledged and restricted as collateral to the FRB totaling $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. We had no debt outstanding with the FRB as of December 31, 2020. 

Guaranteed Securities 

Certain senior notes (collectively, the Guaranteed Notes) issued by Ally Financial Inc. (referred to within this section as the Parent) are unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by IB Finance, a subsidiary of the Parent and the direct parent of Ally Bank, and Ally US LLC, a subsidiary of the Parent (together, the Guarantors, and the guarantee provided by each such Guarantor, the Note Guarantees). The Guarantors are primary obligors with respect to payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all payment obligations of the Parent in respect of the Guaranteed Notes pursuant to the terms of the applicable indenture. At December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, the outstanding principal balance of the Guaranteed Notes was $2.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, with the last scheduled maturity to take place in 2031. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The Note Guarantees rank equally in right of payment with the applicable Guarantor&#8217;s existing and future unsubordinated unsecured indebtedness and are subordinate to any secured indebtedness of the applicable Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Note Guarantees are structurally subordinate to indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables and lease obligations, and in the case of Ally Bank, its deposits) of any nonguarantor subsidiaries of the applicable Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets of such subsidiaries. 

The Note Guarantees and all other obligations of the Guarantors will terminate and be of no further force or effect (i) upon a permissible sale, disposition, or other transfer (including through merger or consolidation) of a majority of the equity interests (including any sale, disposition or other transfer following which the applicable Guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of the Parent), of the applicable Guarantor, or (ii) upon the discharge of the Parent&#8217;s obligations related to the Guaranteed Notes. 

The following tables present summarized financial data for the Parent and the Guarantors on a combined basis. The Guarantors, both of which the Parent is deemed to possess control over, are fully consolidated after eliminating intercompany balances and transactions. Summarized financial data for nonguarantor subsidiaries is excluded. 

##TABLE_START 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 Net financing loss and other interest income $ (1,049) $ (1,116) $ (1,083) Dividends from bank subsidiaries 1,150 &#160; 1,950 2,600 Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries 66 &#160; 436 443 Total other revenue 367 &#160; 343 481 Total net revenue 534 &#160; 1,613 2,441 Provision for credit losses (68) 35 176 Total noninterest expense 693 &#160; 626 764 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income tax expense 

(91) 952 1,501 Income tax benefit from continuing operations (a) (300) (566) (300) Net income from continuing operations 209 &#160; 1,518 1,801 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (1) (6) (2) Net income (b) $ 208 &#160; $ 1,512 $ 1,799 ##TABLE_END

(a) There is a significant variation in the customary relationship between pretax (loss) income and income tax benefit due to our accounting policy elections and other adjustments. 

(b) Excludes the Parent&#8217;s and Guarantors&#8217; share of income of all nonguarantor subsidiaries. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 Total assets (a) $ 7,600 &#160; $ 6,749 Total liabilities $ 16,133 &#160; $ 15,822 ##TABLE_END

(a) Excludes investments in all nonguarantor subsidiaries. 

Cash Flows 

The following summarizes the activity reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. While this information may be helpful to highlight certain macro trends and business strategies, the cash flow analysis may not be as helpful when analyzing changes in our net earnings and net assets. We believe that in addition to the traditional cash flow analysis, the discussion related to liquidity, dividends, and ALM herein may provide more useful context in evaluating our liquidity position and related activity. 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.7 billion and $4.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Activity fell year-over-year, as results were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Net cash provided by investing activities was $8.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $3.8 billion for 2019. The increase was primarily due to a $11.1 billion increase in cash inflows related to originations and repayments of finance receivables and loans held-for-investment and other. During the year ended December 31, 2020, commercial wholesale financing receivables outstanding decreased due to a reduction or temporary shutdown in manufacturer production as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, coupled with ongoing retail automotive sales, which reduced dealer stock levels. Additionally, we experienced an increase in repayments of consumer mortgage loans, driven by an increase in refinance volume resulting from the low interest rate environment. 

Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, was $25 million, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.5 billion for 2019. The change was primarily attributable an increase of $1.7 billion in net cash inflows related to deposits, driven by broad economic stimulus measures and muted spending. The change was also attributable to a decrease of $1.1 billion in net cash outflows related to short-term borrowings, and a decrease of $933 million in common-stock repurchases. This activity was partially 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

offset by a $2.1 billion decrease in long-term debt issuances, net of payments, as the continued growth of our retail-deposit base has contributed to a more favorable mix of lower cost funding. 

Capital Planning and Stress Tests 

As a Category IV firm, we are subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle and are exempted from mandated company-run stress testing requirements. We are also required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB. Our annual capital plan must include an assessment of our expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any dividend or other capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on our capital. The plan must also include a discussion of how we, under expected and stressful conditions, will maintain capital commensurate with our risks and above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, and will serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank. The FRB&#8217;s final rule introducing the stress capital buffer requirement, which is described in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, made several changes to the CCAR process that applied beginning with the 2020 cycle. 

We received a non-objection to our 2018 capital plan in June 2018. We were not required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB, participate in the supervisory stress test or CCAR, or conduct company-run capital stress tests during the 2019 cycle. Instead, our capital actions during the 2019 cycle were largely based on the results from our 2018 supervisory stress test. On April 1, 2019, our Board authorized an increase in our stock-repurchase program, permitting us to repurchase up to $1.25 billion of our common stock from time to time from the third quarter of 2019 through the second quarter of 2020. On March 17, 2020, in order to support the FRB&#8217;s effort to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. economy and the financial system, we announced the voluntary suspension of our stock-repurchase program through its termination on June 30, 2020. We did not implement a new stock-repurchase program or repurchase shares of our common stock, except in connection with compensation plans, for the remainder of 2020, consistent with the restrictions imposed by the FRB as described in the next paragraph. We repurchased $106 million of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2020. On January 11, 2021, our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of our common stock. Refer to Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the most recent dividend. 

We submitted our 2020 capital plan on April 3, 2020, which included planned capital distributions to common stockholders through share repurchases and cash dividends over the nine-quarter planning horizon. On June 25, 2020, the FRB provided us with the results of the supervisory stress test, additional industry-wide sensitivity analyses conducted in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, and our preliminary stress capital buffer requirement. At the same time, the FRB announced its determination that changes in financial markets or the macroeconomic outlook could have a material effect on the risk profiles and financial conditions of firms subject to the capital-plan rule and that, as a result, the firms (including Ally) would be required to resubmit capital plans to the FRB within 45 days after receiving updated stress scenarios from the FRB. On September 17, 2020, the FRB released two updated scenarios&#8212;severely adverse and alternative severe. We updated our capital plan in light of firm-specific baseline and stress scenarios, as required, and submitted our updated plan to the FRB on November 2, 2020. On December 18, 2020, the FRB publicly disclosed summary results of its second round of supervisory stress testing and extended the deadline by which firms will be notified about whether their stress capital buffer requirements will be recalculated to March 31, 2021. On June 25, 2020, the FRB also announced several actions to ensure that large firms, such as Ally, remain resilient despite the economic uncertainty from the COVID-19 pandemic, including for the third quarter of 2020 (1) the suspension of repurchases by any firm of its common stock, except repurchases relating to issuances of common stock related to employee stock ownership plans, and (2) the disallowance of any increase by a firm in the amount of its common-stock dividends and the imposition of a common-stock dividend limit equal to the average of the firm&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters. These restrictions were extended by the FRB for the fourth quarter of 2020. On December 18, 2020, the FRB extended and modified these restrictions for the first quarter of 2021 to limit aggregate common-stock dividends and share repurchases to an amount equal to the average of the firm&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters subject to specified exceptions. Restrictions of this kind may be further extended by the FRB. On January 11, 2021, our Board authorized a stock-repurchase program, permitting us to repurchase up to $1.6 billion of our common stock from time to time from the first quarter of 2021 through the fourth quarter of 2021. The aggregate amount of our common-stock dividends and share repurchases in the first quarter of 2021 is subject to the FRB&#8217;s restrictions described above. These restrictions may be further extended by the FRB on a quarter-by-quarter basis. 

Our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, will continue to be subject to the FRB&#8217;s review and our internal governance requirements, including approval by our Board. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases also will be subject to various factors, including Ally&#8217;s capital and liquidity positions, accounting and regulatory considerations (including any restrictions that may be imposed by the FRB), impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, financial and operational performance, alternative uses of capital, common-stock price, and general market conditions, and may be extended, modified, or discontinued at any time. 

Regulatory Capital 

Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section titled Selected Financial Data within this MD&#38;A. 

Credit Ratings 

The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings, which are intended to be an indicator of the creditworthiness of a particular company, security, or obligation. Lower ratings result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. This is particularly true for certain institutional investors whose investment guidelines require investment-grade ratings on term debt and the two highest rating categories for short-term debt (particularly money-market investors). 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations rate substantially all our debt. The following table summarizes our current ratings and outlook by the respective nationally recognized rating agencies. 

##TABLE_START 

Rating agency 

Short-term 

Senior unsecured debt 

Outlook 

Date of last action 

Fitch 

F3 

BBB- 

Negative August 12, 2020 (a) 

Moody&#8217;s 

Not Prime 

Ba1 Stable 

May 12, 2020 (b) 

S&#38;P 

A-3 

BBB- 

Negative May 4, 2020 (c) 

DBRS 

R-3 

BBB (Low) 

Negative April 21, 2020 (d) ##TABLE_END

(a) Fitch affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB- and short-term rating of F3, and changed the outlook to Negative from Negative Watch on August 12, 2020. 

(b) Moody&#8217;s affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of Ba1, affirmed our short-term rating of Not Prime, and maintained a Stable outlook on May 12, 2020. Effective December 1, 2014, we determined to not renew our contractual arrangement with Moody&#8217;s related to their providing of our issuer, senior unsecured debt, and short-term ratings. Notwithstanding this, Moody&#8217;s has determined to continue to provide these ratings on a discretionary basis. However, Moody&#8217;s has no obligation to continue to provide these ratings, and could cease doing so at any time. 

(c) Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB-, affirmed our short-term rating of A-3, and changed the outlook to Negative from Stable on May 4, 2020. 

(d) DBRS affirmed our senior unsecured debt rating of BBB (Low), affirmed our short-term rating of R-3, and changed the outlook to Negative from Positive on April 21, 2020. 

Rating agencies indicate that they base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, which may include capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, level and quality of earnings, and the current operating, legislative, and regulatory environment. Rating agencies themselves could make or be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices&#8212;particularly in response to legislative and regulatory changes. Potential changes in rating methodology, as well as in the legislative and regulatory environment, and the timing of those changes could impact our ratings, which as noted above could increase our borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. 

A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 

Insurance Financial Strength Ratings 

Substantially all of our Insurance operations have an FSR and an Issuer Credit Rating (ICR) from A.M. Best. The FSR is intended to be an indicator of the ability of the insurance company to meet its senior most obligations to policyholders. Lower ratings generally result in fewer opportunities to write business, as insureds, particularly large commercial insureds, and insurance companies purchasing reinsurance have guidelines requiring high FSR ratings. On September 25, 2020, A.M. Best affirmed the FSR for Ally Insurance Group of A- (excellent), affirmed the ICR of a-, and maintained a Stable outlook. 

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 

Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Guarantees 

Guarantees are defined as contracts or indemnification agreements that contingently require us to make payments to third parties based on changes in an underlying agreement that is related to a guaranteed party. Our guarantees include client securities to a clearing broker, standby letters of credit, and certain contract provisions associated with securitizations, sales, and divestitures. Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our outstanding guarantees to third parties. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Aggregate Contractual Obligations 

The following table provides aggregated information about our outstanding contractual obligations disclosed elsewhere in our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2020 ($ in millions) 

Less than 1 year 1&#8211;3 years 3&#8211;5 years More than 5 years Total Contractually obligated payments due by period Long-term debt Total (a) $ 5,157 &#160; $ 8,780 &#160; $ 3,844 &#160; $ 5,199 &#160; $ 22,980 &#160; Scheduled interest payments for fixed-rate long-term debt 

696 &#160; 977 &#160; 672 &#160; 1,193 &#160; 3,538 &#160; Estimated interest payments for variable-rate long-term debt (b) 

173 &#160; 339 &#160; 332 &#160; 2,352 &#160; 3,196 &#160; Estimated net payments under interest rate swap agreements (b) 

&#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 36 &#160; 36 &#160; Lease commitments (c) 45 &#160; 61 &#160; 37 &#160; 58 &#160; 201 &#160; Purchase obligations 71 &#160; 185 &#160; 30 &#160; 25 &#160; 311 &#160; Bank certificates of deposit (d) (e) 41,836 &#160; 9,399 &#160; 1,988 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 53,223 &#160; Deposit liabilities without a stated maturity (e) (f) 83,826 &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 83,826 &#160; Total contractually obligated payments due by period $ 131,804 &#160; $ 19,741 &#160; $ 6,903 &#160; $ 8,863 &#160; $ 167,311 &#160; Total other commitments by expiration period Lending commitments $ 3,901 &#160; $ 1,490 &#160; $ 2,078 &#160; $ 499 &#160; $ 7,968 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(a) Total long-term debt amount reflects the remaining principal obligation and excludes net original issue discount of $1.1 billion, unamortized debt issuance costs of $79 million, and a favorable hedge basis adjustment of $169 million related to fixed-rate debt previously designated as a hedged item. 

(b) Estimated using a forecasted variable interest model, when available, or the applicable variable interest rate as of the most recent reset date prior to December 31, 2020. For additional information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(c) Excludes a forward-starting lease agreement for a new corporate facility in Charlotte, North Carolina, scheduled to commence in April 2021. The lease agreement will have a total of $290 million in undiscounted future lease payments over the 15-year term of the lease. 

(d) Amounts presented exclude unamortized commissions paid to brokers. 

(e) Deposits exclude estimated interest payments. 

(f) Deposits without a stated maturity are payable on demand and include savings and money market checking, mortgage escrow, dealer, and other deposits; and are classified above as due in less than one year. 

The foregoing table does not include our reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses, which total $129 million at December 31, 2020. While payments due on insurance losses are considered contractual obligations because they related to insurance policies issued by us, the ultimate amount to be paid and the timing of payment for an insurance loss is an estimate subject to significant uncertainty. Furthermore, the majority of the balance is expected to be paid out in less than five years. 

As of December 31, 2020, our Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects a liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $53 million and less than $1 million of accrued interest and penalties. Since the ultimate amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, the estimated income tax obligations with uncertainty have been excluded from the foregoing table. For additional information, refer to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following provides a description of the items summarized in the preceding table of contractual obligations. 

Long-term Debt 

Amounts represent the scheduled maturity of long-term debt at December 31, 2020, assuming that no early redemptions occur. The maturity of secured debt may vary based on the payment activity of the related secured assets. The amounts presented are before the effect of any unamortized discount, debt issuance costs, or fair value adjustment. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our debt obligations. We primarily use interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with our secured and unsecured long-term debt portfolio. These derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. For additional information on derivatives, refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Lease Commitments 

We have obligations under various operating lease arrangements for real property with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Purchase Obligations 

We enter into multiple contractual arrangements for various services. The arrangements represent fixed payment obligations under our most significant contracts and primarily relate to contracts with information technology providers. Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Bank Certificates of Deposit 

Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Lending Commitments 

We have outstanding lending commitments with customers. The amounts presented represent the unused portion of those commitments at December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

Accounting policies are integral to understanding our Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain judgments and assumptions, on the basis of information available at the time of the financial statements, in determining accounting estimates used in the preparation of these statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; critical accounting estimates are described in this section. An accounting estimate is considered critical if the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made. If actual results differ from our judgments and assumptions, then it may have an adverse impact on the results of operations and cash flows. Our management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to these estimates. 

Allowance for Loan Losses 

We maintain an allowance for loan losses (the allowance) to reflect the net amount expected to be collected from our lending portfolios. The allowance is maintained at a level that management considers to be adequate based upon ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations using relevant available information, which includes both internal and external sources, relating to past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. Additions and reductions to the allowance are charged to current period earnings through the provision for credit losses; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowance, net of amounts recovered on previously charged-off accounts. Expected recoveries do not exceed the total of amounts charged-off or expected to be charged-off. The allowance is measured using statistically-estimated models that are designed to correlate customer and collateral quality, as well as certain macroeconomic variables to expected future credit losses. The macroeconomic data used in the models is based on forecasted variables for the next 12 months. Beyond this forecast period, we revert to a historical average for each of the variables on a straight-line basis over 24 months. The allowance reflects management&#8217;s estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual term of our lending portfolio and involves significant judgment, which could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net income. For additional information regarding our portfolio segments and classes, refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The consumer portfolio segments consist of loans that generally share similar risk characteristics within our Automotive Finance operations, Mortgage Finance operations, and consumer unsecured lending operations which is included within Corporate and Other. The allowance model for each consumer portfolio segment is calculated using proprietary statistical models and other risk indicators applied to pools of loans that share similar risk characteristics. Loans that do not share similar risk characteristics are evaluated individually. For additional information regarding the allowance calculation for the consumer portfolio segments, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The commercial portfolio segment is composed of loans which may or may not share similar risk characteristics within our Automotive Finance operations and Corporate Finance operations. Loans that have similar risk characteristics are pooled and evaluated collectively for loan losses using proprietary risk rating models. Loans that do not share similar risk characteristics are evaluated individually. Credit losses for loans evaluated individually within this segment are measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loans&#8217; effective interest rate, or the observable market price or the fair value of collateral, whichever is determined to be the most appropriate. Estimated costs to sell the collateral on an undiscounted basis are included in the measurement if we intend to sell the underlying collateral as opposed to operating it. For additional information regarding the allowance calculation for the commercial portfolio segment, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The determination of the allowance is influenced by numerous assumptions and factors that may materially affect estimates of loss. The critical assumptions underlying the allowance include: (i) segmentation of each portfolio based on common risk characteristics; (ii) the development of reasonable and supportable forecasts of future macroeconomic conditions; and (iii) evaluation by management of borrower, collateral, and geographic information. Management monitors the adequacy of the allowance and makes adjustments as the assumptions in the underlying analyses change to reflect an estimate of expected lifetime loan losses at the reporting date, based on the best information available at that time. 

Valuation of Automotive Operating Lease Assets and Residuals 

We have significant investments in vehicles in our operating lease portfolio. In accounting for operating leases, management must make a determination at the beginning of the operating lease contract of the estimated realizable value (i.e., residual value) of the vehicle at the end of the lease. Residual value represents an estimate of the market value of the vehicle at the end of the lease term. At contract inception, we determine pricing based on the projected residual value of the vehicle. This evaluation is primarily based on a proprietary model, which includes variables such as age, expected mileage, seasonality, segment factors, vehicle type, economic indicators, production cycle, automotive manufacturer incentives, and shifts in used vehicle supply. This internally generated data is compared against third-party, 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

independent data for reasonableness. The customer is obligated to make payments during the term of the lease for the difference between the purchase price and the contract residual value plus rental charges. However, since the customer is not obligated to purchase the vehicle at the end of the contract, we are exposed to a risk of loss to the extent the value of the vehicle is below the residual value estimated at contract inception. Management periodically performs a detailed review of the estimated realizable value of vehicles to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of operating lease assets. 

To account for residual risk, we depreciate automotive operating lease assets to expected realizable value on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The estimated realizable value is initially based on the residual value established at contract inception. Periodically, we review the projected value of the leased vehicle at termination based on current market conditions, and other relevant data points, and adjust depreciation expense as necessary over the remaining term of the lease. Impairment of operating lease assets is assessed upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Triggering events are systemic, observed events impacting the used vehicle market such as shocks to oil and gas prices that may indicate impairment of the operating lease asset. Impairment is determined to exist if the expected undiscounted cash flows generated from the operating lease assets are less than the carrying value of the operating lease assets. If the operating lease assets are impaired, they are written down to their fair value as estimated by discounted cash flows. There were no such impairment charges in 2020, 2019, or 2018. 

Our depreciation methodology for operating lease assets considers management&#8217;s expectation of the value of the vehicles upon lease termination, which is based on numerous assumptions and factors influencing used vehicle values. The critical assumptions underlying the estimated carrying value of automotive operating lease assets include: (i) estimated market value information obtained and used by management in estimating residual values, (ii) proper identification and estimation of business conditions, (iii) our remarketing abilities, and (iv) automotive manufacturer vehicle and marketing programs. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the operating lease residual value. Expected residual values include estimates of payments from automotive manufacturers related to residual support and risk-sharing agreements, if any. To the extent an automotive manufacturer is not able to fully honor its obligation relative to these agreements, our depreciation expense would be negatively impacted. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. Refer to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of valuation methodologies used to measure material assets and liabilities at fair value and details of the valuation models, key inputs to those models, and significant assumptions utilized. We follow the fair value hierarchy set forth in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in order to prioritize the inputs utilized to measure fair value. We review and modify, as necessary, our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis, which can result in reclassifications between hierarchy levels. 

We have numerous internal controls in place to address risks inherent in estimating fair value measurements. Significant fair value measurements are subject to detailed analytics and management review and approval. We have an established risk management policy and model validation program. This model validation program establishes a controlled environment for the development, implementation, and operation of models used to generate fair value measurements and change procedures. Further, this program uses a risk-based approach to determine the frequency at which models are to be independently reviewed and validated. Additionally, a wide array of operational controls governs fair value measurements, including controls over the inputs into and the outputs from the fair value measurement models. For example, we backtest the internal assumptions used within models against actual performance. We also monitor the market for recent trades, market surveys, or other market information that may be used to benchmark model inputs or outputs. Certain valuations will also be benchmarked to market indices when appropriate and available. We have scheduled model or input recalibrations that occur on a periodic basis but will recalibrate earlier if significant variances are observed as part of the backtesting or benchmarking noted above. 

Considerable judgment is used in forming conclusions from market observable data used to estimate our Level 2 fair value measurements and in estimating inputs to our internal valuation models used to estimate our Level 3 fair value measurements. Level 3 inputs such as interest rate movements, prepayment speeds, credit losses, and discount rates are inherently difficult to estimate. Changes to these inputs can have a significant effect on fair value measurements and amounts that could be realized. 

Determination of Provision for Income Taxes 

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management&#8217;s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes predominantly in the United States. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent results of operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal, and foreign pretax operating income. These assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income (loss). 

As of each reporting date, we consider existing evidence, both positive and negative, that could impact our view with regard to future realization of deferred tax assets. Following the sale of our legacy international operations in 2012 and 2013, we continue to hold unexpired foreign tax credits subject to a partial valuation allowance. We continue to believe it is more likely than not that the benefit for certain foreign 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

tax credit carryforwards and state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, we continue to provide a partial valuation allowance on these deferred tax assets relating to these carryforwards and it is reasonably possible that the valuation allowance may change in the next 12 months. 

For additional information regarding our provision for income taxes, refer to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to recently adopted accounting standards. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Statistical Tables 

The accompanying supplemental information should be read in conjunction with the more detailed information, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Net Interest Margin Table 

The following table presents an analysis of net yield on interest-earning assets (or net interest margin) excluding discontinued operations for the periods shown. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 2018 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Average balance (a) Interest income/interest expense Yield/rate Assets Interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents $ 13,985 &#160; $ 28 &#160; 0.20 &#160; % $ 3,837 $ 78 2.02 % $ 4,365 $ 72 1.65 % Investment securities (b) 31,539 &#160; 692 &#160; 2.20 &#160; 31,176 887 2.85 26,217 729 2.78 Loans held-for-sale, net 399 &#160; 17 &#160; 4.33 &#160; 375 17 4.60 287 15 5.23 Finance receivables and loans, net (b) (c) 120,991 &#160; 6,581 &#160; 5.44 &#160; 128,654 7,337 5.70 124,932 6,688 5.35 Investment in operating leases, net (d) 9,264 &#160; 584 &#160; 6.30 &#160; 8,509 489 5.74 8,590 464 5.40 Other earning assets 977 &#160; 44 &#160; 4.43 &#160; 1,181 68 5.68 1,182 59 4.99 Total interest-earning assets 177,155 &#160; 7,946 &#160; 4.49 &#160; 173,732 8,876 5.11 165,573 8,027 4.85 Noninterest-bearing cash and cash equivalents 

473 &#160; 418 493 Other assets 8,021 &#160; 6,864 6,267 Allowance for loan losses (3,149) (1,274) (1,266) Total assets $ 182,500 &#160; $ 179,740 $ 171,067 Liabilities and equity Interest-bearing deposit liabilities (b) $ 129,092 &#160; $ 1,952 &#160; 1.51 &#160; % $ 115,244 $ 2,538 2.20 % $ 99,056 $ 1,735 1.75 % Short-term borrowings 3,721 &#160; 42 &#160; 1.12 &#160; 5,686 135 2.38 7,674 149 1.94 Long-term debt (b) 29,058 &#160; 1,249 &#160; 4.30 &#160; 38,466 1,570 4.08 45,893 1,753 3.82 Total interest-bearing liabilities 161,871 &#160; 3,243 &#160; 2.00 &#160; 159,396 4,243 2.66 152,623 3,637 2.38 Noninterest-bearing deposit liabilities 146 &#160; 141 133 Total funding sources 162,017 &#160; 3,243 &#160; 2.00 &#160; 159,537 4,243 2.66 152,756 3,637 2.38 Other liabilities 6,195 &#160; 6,215 5,222 Total liabilities 168,212 &#160; 165,752 157,978 Total equity 14,288 &#160; 13,988 13,089 Total liabilities and equity $ 182,500 &#160; $ 179,740 $ 171,067 Net financing revenue and other interest income 

$ 4,703 &#160; $ 4,633 $ 4,390 Net interest spread (e) 2.49 &#160; % 2.45 % 2.47 % Net yield on interest-earning assets (f) 2.65 &#160; % 2.67 % 2.65 % ##TABLE_END

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

(b) Includes the effects of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the effects of our hedging activities. 

(c) Nonperforming finance receivables and loans are included in the average balances. For information on our accounting policies regarding nonperforming status, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(d) Yield includes gains on the sale of off-lease vehicles of $127 million, $69 million, and $90 million, for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Excluding these gains on sale, the yield would be 4.93% for both the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, and 4.35% for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

(e) Net interest spread represents the difference between the rate on total interest-earning assets and the rate on total interest-bearing liabilities. 

(f) Net yield on interest-earning assets represents net financing revenue and other interest income as a percentage of total interest-earning assets. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents an analysis of the changes in net financing revenue and other interest income, volume, and rate. 

##TABLE_START 2020 vs. 2019 Increase (decrease) due to (a) 2019 vs. 2018 (Decrease) increase due to (a) 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Volume Yield/rate Total Volume Yield/rate Total Assets Interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents $ 206 &#160; $ (256) $ (50) $ (9) $ 15 $ 6 Investment securities 10 &#160; (205) (195) 138 20 158 Loans held-for-sale, net 1 &#160; (1) &#8212; &#160; 5 (3) 2 Finance receivables and loans, net (437) (319) (756) 199 450 649 Investment in operating leases, net 43 &#160; 52 &#160; 95 &#160; (4) 29 25 Other earning assets (12) (12) (24) &#8212; 9 9 Total interest-earning assets $ (930) $ 849 Liabilities Interest-bearing deposit liabilities $ 305 &#160; $ (891) $ (586) $ 284 $ 519 $ 803 Short-term borrowings (47) (46) (93) (39) 25 (14) Long-term debt (384) 63 &#160; (321) (284) 101 (183) Total interest-bearing liabilities $ (1,000) $ 606 Net financing revenue and other interest income 

$ 70 &#160; $ 243 ##TABLE_END

(a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change in volume and yield/rate. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Outstanding Finance Receivables and Loans 

The following table presents the composition of our on-balance-sheet finance receivables and loans. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Consumer Consumer automotive $ 73,668 &#160; $ 72,390 $ 70,539 $ 68,071 $ 65,793 Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 14,632 &#160; 16,181 15,155 11,657 8,294 Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 

495 &#160; 1,141 1,546 2,093 2,756 Total consumer mortgage 15,127 &#160; 17,322 16,701 13,750 11,050 Consumer other 407 &#160; 212 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Total consumer 89,202 &#160; 89,924 87,240 81,821 76,843 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 19,082 &#160; 28,332 33,672 33,025 35,041 Other 5,242 &#160; 5,014 4,205 3,887 3,248 Commercial real estate 5,008 &#160; 4,961 4,809 4,160 3,812 Total commercial loans 29,332 &#160; 38,307 42,686 41,072 42,101 Total finance receivables and loans $ 118,534 &#160; $ 128,231 $ 129,926 $ 122,893 $ 118,944 Loans held-for-sale $ 406 &#160; $ 158 $ 314 $ 108 $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

Nonperforming Assets 

The following table summarizes the nonperforming assets in our on-balance-sheet portfolio. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Consumer Consumer automotive $ 1,256 &#160; $ 762 $ 664 $ 603 $ 598 Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 67 &#160; 17 9 25 10 Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 

35 &#160; 40 70 92 89 Total consumer mortgage 102 &#160; 57 79 117 99 Consumer other 3 &#160; 2 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Total consumer (a) 1,361 &#160; 821 743 720 697 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 40 &#160; 73 203 27 33 Other 116 &#160; 138 142 44 84 Commercial real estate 5 &#160; 4 4 1 5 Total commercial (b) 161 &#160; 215 349 72 122 Total nonperforming finance receivables and loans 1,522 &#160; 1,036 1,092 792 819 Foreclosed properties 2 &#160; 9 11 10 13 Repossessed assets (c) 186 &#160; 147 136 140 135 Total nonperforming assets $ 1,710 &#160; $ 1,192 $ 1,239 $ 942 $ 967 ##TABLE_END

(a) Interest revenue that would have been accrued on total consumer finance receivables and loans at original contractual rates was $131 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. Interest income recorded for these loans was $42 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. 

(b) Interest revenue that would have been accrued on total commercial finance receivables and loans at original contractual rates was $11 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. Interest income recorded for these loans was $2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. 

(c) Repossessed assets exclude repossessed operating leases of $7 million at December 31, 2020, $6 million at both December 31, 2019, and 2018, $9 million at December 31, 2017, and $8 million at December 31, 2016. 

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Accruing Finance Receivables and Loans Past Due 90 Days or More 

Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for at least 90 days, or when full collection is not expected. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our accounting policies for finance receivables and loans. We had no consumer or commercial on-balance-sheet accruing finance receivables and loans or loans held-for-sale past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest as of December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, and 2016. 

Allowance for Loan Losses 

The following table presents an analysis of the activity in the allowance for loan losses on finance receivables and loans. 

##TABLE_START ($ in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Balance at January 1, $ 1,263 &#160; $ 1,242 $ 1,276 $ 1,144 $ 1,054 Cumulative effect of the adoption of CECL 1,346 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Charge-offs (a) (1,326) (1,490) (1,433) (1,392) (1,142) Recoveries 562 &#160; 514 488 382 341 Net charge-offs (764) (976) (945) (1,010) (801) Provision for credit losses 1,439 &#160; 998 918 1,148 917 Other (b) (1) (1) (7) (6) (26) Balance at December 31, $ 3,283 &#160; $ 1,263 $ 1,242 $ 1,276 $ 1,144 ##TABLE_END

(a) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our charge-off policies. 

(b) Primarily related to the transfer of finance receivables and loans from held-for-investment to held-for-sale. 

Allowance for Loan Losses by Type 

The following table summarizes the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by product type. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 

December 31, ($ in millions) 

Amount % of total Amount % of total Amount % of total Amount % of total Amount % of total Consumer Consumer automotive $ 2,902 &#160; 88.4 &#160; $ 1,075 85.1 $ 1,048 84.3 $ 1,066 83.5 $ 932 81.4 Consumer mortgage Mortgage Finance 21 &#160; 0.6 &#160; 19 1.5 16 1.3 19 1.5 11 1.0 Mortgage &#8212; Legacy 

12 &#160; 0.4 &#160; 27 2.2 37 3.0 60 4.7 80 7.0 Total consumer mortgage 33 &#160; 1.0 &#160; 46 3.7 53 4.3 79 6.2 91 8.0 Consumer other 73 &#160; 2.2 &#160; 9 0.7 &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; Total consumer loans 3,008 &#160; 91.6 &#160; 1,130 89.5 1,101 88.6 1,145 89.7 1,023 89.4 Commercial Commercial and industrial Automotive 42 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 31 2.5 36 2.9 37 2.9 32 2.8 Other 190 &#160; 5.8 &#160; 78 6.1 77 6.2 68 5.4 64 5.6 Commercial real estate 43 &#160; 1.3 &#160; 24 1.9 28 2.3 26 2.0 25 2.2 Total commercial loans 275 &#160; 8.4 &#160; 133 10.5 141 11.4 131 10.3 121 10.6 Total allowance for loan losses 

$ 3,283 &#160; 100.0 &#160; $ 1,263 100.0 $ 1,242 100.0 $ 1,276 100.0 $ 1,144 100.0 ##TABLE_END

Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Deposit Liabilities 

The following table presents the average balances and interest rates paid for types of domestic deposits. 

##TABLE_START 2020 2019 2018 

Year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 

Average balance (a) Average deposit rate Average balance (a) Average deposit rate Average balance (a) Average deposit rate Domestic deposits Noninterest-bearing deposits $ 146 &#160; &#8212; &#160; % $ 141 &#8212; % $ 133 &#8212; % Interest-bearing deposits Savings and money market checking accounts 

83,336 &#160; 0.86 &#160; 60,464 1.93 51,427 1.60 Certificates of deposit 45,756 &#160; 2.70 &#160; 54,779 2.51 47,624 1.91 Other deposits &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 1 4.85 5 6.91 Total domestic deposit liabilities 

$ 129,238 &#160; 1.51 &#160; $ 115,385 2.20 $ 99,189 1.75 ##TABLE_END

(a) Average balances are calculated using an average daily balance methodology. 

The following table presents the amounts of certificates of deposit in denominations of $100 thousand or more and $250 thousand or more, segregated by time remaining until maturity. 

##TABLE_START 

December 31, 2020 ($ in millions) 

Three months or less Over three months through six months Over six months through twelve months Over twelve months Total Certificates of deposit ($100,000 or more) 

$ 6,604 &#160; $ 5,613 &#160; $ 9,028 &#160; $ 4,538 &#160; $ 25,783 &#160; Certificates of deposit ($250,000 or more) 

2,182 &#160; 1,960 &#160; 3,095 &#160; 1,396 &#160; 8,633 &#160; ##TABLE_END

