 Item7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk ##TABLE_END

We manage our assets and liabilities to reduce our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The asset and liability management process has three primary objectives: to evaluate the interest rate risk inherent in certain balance sheet accounts; to determine the appropriate level of risk, given our business strategy, operating environment, capital and liquidity requirements, and performance objectives; and to manage that risk in a manner consistent with guidelines approved by the Boards of Directors of the Company and the Bank. 

Market Risk 

As a financial institution, we are focused on reducing our exposure to interest rate volatility, which represents our primary market risk. Changes in market interest rates represent the greatest challenge to our financial performance, as such changes can have a significant impact on the level of income and expense recorded on a large portion of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and on the market value of all interest-earning assets, other than those possessing a short term to maturity. To reduce our exposure to changing rates, the Board of Directors and management monitor interest rate sensitivity on a regular or as needed basis so that adjustments to the asset and liability mix can be made when deemed appropriate. 

The actual duration of held-for-investment mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities can be significantly impacted by changes in prepayment levels and market interest rates. The level of prepayments may, in turn, be impacted by a variety of factors, including the economy in the region where the underlying mortgages were originated; seasonal factors; demographic variables; and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. However, the factors with the most significant impact on prepayments are market interest rates and the availability of refinancing opportunities. 

We managed our interest rate risk by taking the following actions: (1) Continue to increase the investments portfolio with an overall shorter duration profile; (2) The use of derivatives to manage our interest rate position; (3) Increased the focus on retaining and increasing our branch deposits base. 

Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis 

Interest rate sensitivity is monitored through the use of a model that generates estimates of the change in our Economic Value of Equity (EVE) over a range of interest rate scenarios. EVE is defined as the net present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet contracts. The EVE ratio, under any interest rate scenario, is defined as the EVE in that scenario divided by the market value of assets in the same scenario. The model assumes estimated loan and MBS prepayment rates, current market value spreads, and deposit decay rates and betas. 

Based on the information and assumptions in effect at December 31, 2023, the following table sets forth our EVE, assuming the changes in interest rates noted: 

##TABLE_START Change in Interest Rates (in basis points) Estimated Percentage Change in Economic Value of Equity -200 shock (2.39)% -100 shock (1.31)% +100 shock (0.28)% +200 shock (1.44)% ##TABLE_END &#160; 

The net changes in EVE presented in the preceding table are within the parameters approved by the Boards of Directors of the Company and the Bank. 

Accordingly, while the EVE analysis provides an indication of our interest rate risk exposure at a particular point in time, such measurements are not intended to, and do not, provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in market interest rates on our net interest income, and may very well differ from actual results. 

Interest Rate Risk is also monitored through the use of a model that generates Net Interest Income (NII) simulations over a range of interest rate scenarios. Modeling changes in NII requires that certain assumptions be made which may or may not reflect the manner in which actual yields and costs respond to changes in market interest rates. In this regard, the NII analysis presented below assumes that the composition of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities existing at the beginning of a period remains constant over the period being measured, and also assumes that a particular change in interest rates is reflected uniformly across the yield curve, regardless of the duration to maturity or repricing of specific assets and liabilities. 

Furthermore, the model does not take into account the benefit of any strategic actions we may take to further reduce our exposure to interest rate risk. The assumptions used in the net interest income simulation are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ significantly from those presented in the following table, due to the frequency, timing, and magnitude of changes in interest rates; changes in spreads between maturity and repricing categories; and prepayments, among other factors, coupled with any actions taken to counter the effects of any such changes. 

Based on the information and assumptions in effect at December 31, 2023, the following table reflects the estimated percentage change in future net interest income for the next twelve months, assuming the changes in interest rates noted: 

##TABLE_START Change in Interest Rates (in basis points) (1) 

Estimated Percentage Change in Future Net Interest Income -200 shock (5.81)% -100 shock (3.17)% +100 shock 3.24% +200 shock 6.40% ##TABLE_END

(1) In general, short- and long-term rates are assumed to increase in parallel instantaneously and then remain unchanged. 

The net changes in NII presented in the preceding table are within the parameters approved by the Boards of Directors of the Company and the Bank. 

Future changes in our mix of assets and liabilities may result in greater changes to our EVE, and/or NII simulations. 

In the event that our EVE and net interest income sensitivities were to breach our internal policy limits, we would undertake the following actions to ensure that appropriate remedial measures were put in place: 

&#8226; In formulating appropriate strategies, the ALCO Committee would ascertain the primary causes of the variance from policy tolerances, the expected term of such conditions, and the projected effect on capital and earnings. 

&#8226; Our ALCO Committee would inform the Board of Directors of the variance, and present recommendations to the Board regarding proposed courses of action to restore conditions to within-policy tolerances. 

Where temporary changes in market conditions or volume levels result in significant increases in risk, strategies may involve reducing open positions or employing other balance sheet management activities including the potential use of derivatives to reduce the risk exposure. Where variance from policy tolerances is triggered by more fundamental imbalances in the risk profiles of core loan and deposit products, a remedial strategy may involve restoring balance through natural hedges to the extent possible before employing synthetic hedging techniques. Other strategies might include: 

&#8226; Asset restructuring, involving sales of assets having higher risk profiles, or a gradual restructuring of the asset mix over time to affect the maturity or repricing schedule of assets; 

&#8226; Liability restructuring, whereby product offerings and pricing are altered or wholesale borrowings are employed to affect the maturity structure or repricing of liabilities; 

&#8226; Expansion or shrinkage of the balance sheet to correct imbalances in the repricing or maturity periods between assets and liabilities; and/or 

&#8226; Use or alteration of off-balance sheet positions, including interest rate swaps, caps, floors, options, and forward purchase or sales commitments. 

In connection with our net interest income simulation modeling, we also evaluate the impact of changes in the slope of the yield curve. At December 31, 2023, our analysis indicated that a further inversion of the yield curve would be expected to result in a 2.1 increase in net interest income; conversely, an immediate steepening of the yield curve would be expected to result in a 2.4 per cent decrease in net interest income . Both scenarios are derived from immediate changes to short-term rates. 

##TABLE_START 