 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Please see &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and below for information regarding risk factors that could materially affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, or future results of operations. Other than as set forth below, there have been no other changes with regard to the risk factors disclosed in &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Liquidity Risk 

Failure to maintain an adequate level of liquidity could result in an inability to fulfill our financial obligations, could subject us to material reputational and compliance risk, and could lead to financial failure of the Company. 

Our primary sources of liquidity are the retail and institutional deposits we gather or acquire in connection with acquisitions, and the brokered deposits we accept; borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY and various Wall Street brokerage firms; cash flows generated through the repayment and sale of loans; and cash flows generated through the repayment and sale of securities. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we may have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time to generate additional liquidity. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Deposit outflows can occur for a number of reasons, including clients seeking higher yields, clients with uninsured deposits may seek greater financial security or clients may simply prefer to do business with our competitors, or for other reasons. The withdrawal of more deposits than we anticipate could have an adverse impact on our profitability as this source of funding, if not replaced by similar deposit funding, would need to be replaced with more expensive wholesale funding, the sale of interest-earning assets, other sources of funding, or a combination of them all. In extreme situations, withdrawals could exceed our capacity to fund the withdrawals and lead to financial failure of the Company. As of March 31, 2024, approximately 20 percent of our total deposits of $74.9 billion were not FDIC-insured. 

In addition, large-scale withdrawals of brokered or institutional deposits could require us to pay significantly higher interest rates on our retail deposits or on other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and net income. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY&#8217;s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and therefore could have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. Downgrades of the credit ratings of the Company and the Bank, such as those announced by certain credit rating agencies in February, March and May 2024, could result in an acceleration in deposit outflows and additional collateral needs, They could adversely affect our access to liquidity and capital, and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us or to purchase our securities. This could affect our growth, profitability, and financial condition, including our liquidity. 

Credit Risk 

Our allowance for credit losses might not be sufficient to cover our actual losses, which would adversely impact our financial condition, regulatory capital ratios and results of operations. 

In addition to mitigating credit risk through our underwriting processes, we attempt to recognize such risk through the establishment of an allowance for credit losses. The process of determining whether or not the allowance is sufficient to cover potential credit losses is based on the current expected credit loss model or CECL. CECL may result in greater volatility in the level of the ACL, depending on various assumptions and factors used in determining the ACL principally through mathematical 

modeling. If the judgments and assumptions we make with regard to the allowance are incorrect, our allowance for losses on such loans might not be sufficient, and an additional provision for credit losses might need to be made. 

Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. 

Furthermore, bank regulators have the authority to require us to make provisions for credit losses or otherwise recognize loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our allowance for losses on such loans. Any increase in the loan loss allowance or in loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our concentration in multi-family loans and CRE loans could expose us to increased lending risks and related loan losses. 

At March 31, 2024, $36.9 billion or 44.8 percent of our total loans and leases, held for investment portfolio consisted of multi-family loans and $10.3 billion or 12.5 percent consisted of CRE loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the properties and the sale of such properties securing the loans. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one of these types of loans outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential real estate loan. In addition, if loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 

The CRE loans we make are secured by income-producing properties such as office buildings, retail centers, mixed-use buildings, and multi-tenanted light industrial properties. At March 31, 2024, $3.1 billion, or 30.1 percent of our commercial real estate loan portfolio was secured by office buildings. We may incur future losses on commercial real estate loans due to declines in occupancy rates and rental rates in office buildings, which could occur as a result of less need for office space due to more people working from home or other factors. 

Our New York State multi-family loan portfolio could be adversely impacted by changes in legislation or regulation which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

On June 14, 2019, the New York State legislature passed the New York Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019. This legislation represents the most extensive reform of New York State&#8217;s rent laws in several decades and generally limits a landlord&#8217;s ability to increase rents on rent regulated apartments and makes it more difficult to convert rent regulated apartments to market rate apartments. As a result, the value of the collateral located in New York State securing the Company&#8217;s multi-family loans or the future net operating income of such properties could potentially become impaired which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Economic weakness in the New York City metropolitan region, where the majority of the properties collateralizing our multi- family, CRE, and ADC loans, and the majority of the businesses collateralizing our other C&#38;I loans, are located could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in the New York City metropolitan region, where the majority of the buildings and properties securing the multi-family, CRE, and ADC loans we originate for investment and the businesses of the customers to whom we make our other C&#38;I loans are located. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in this region, including changes in the local real estate market. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism, extreme weather, or other factors beyond our control, could therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because multi-family and CRE loans represent the majority of the loans in our portfolio, a decline in tenant occupancy or rents, due to such factors, or for other reasons, such as new legislation, could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis, which could have a negative impact on our net income. Furthermore, economic or market turmoil could occur in the near or long term. This could negatively affect our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain the level of cash dividends we currently pay to our stockholders. 

Legal and Regulatory Risk 

Inability to fulfill minimum capital requirements could limit our ability to conduct or expand our business, pay a dividend, or result in termination of our FDIC deposit insurance, and thus impact our financial condition, our results of operations, and the market value of our stock. 

We are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation set forth by the FRB and the OCC. Such regulation includes, among other matters, the level of leverage and risk-based capital ratios we are required to maintain. Depending on general economic conditions, changes in our capital position could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and risk profile, and also could limit our ability to grow through acquisitions or otherwise. Compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to engage in operations that require the intensive use of capital and therefore could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current level of business or expand. Furthermore, it is possible that future regulatory changes could result in more stringent capital or liquidity requirements, including increases in the levels of regulatory capital we are required to maintain and changes in the way capital or liquidity is measured for regulatory purposes, either of which could adversely affect our business and our ability to expand. For example, federal banking regulations adopted under Basel III standards require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with higher capital requirements. Any additional requirements to increase our capital ratios or liquidity could necessitate our liquidating certain assets, perhaps on terms that are unfavorable to us or that are contrary to our business plans. In addition, such requirements could also compel us to issue additional securities, thus diluting the value of our common stock. In addition, failure to meet established capital requirements could result in the FRB and/or OCC placing limitations or conditions on our activities and further restricting the commencement of new activities. The failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject us to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities, including limiting our ability to pay dividends; issuing a directive to increase our capital; and terminating our FDIC deposit insurance. 

Our results of operations could be materially affected by the imposition of restrictions on our operations by bank regulators, further changes in bank regulation, or by our ability to comply with certain existing laws, rules, and regulations governing our industry. 

We are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the following entities: (1) the OCC; (2) the FDIC; (3) the FRB-NY; and (4) the CFPB, as well as state licensing restrictions and limitations regarding certain consumer finance products. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank holding company and its banking subsidiaries may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the DIF, the banking system in general, and bank customers, rather than for the benefit of a company&#8217;s stockholders. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including with respect to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank or a bank holding company, the imposition of significant fines, the ability to delay or deny merger or other regulatory applications, the payment of dividends, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank&#8217;s allowance for loan losses, among other matters. Failure to comply (or to ensure that our agents and third-party service providers comply) with laws, regulations, or policies, including our failure to obtain any necessary state or local licenses, could result in enforcement actions or sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Penalties for such violations may also include: revocation of licenses; fines and other monetary penalties; civil and criminal liability; substantially reduced payments by borrowers; modification of the original terms of loans, permanent forgiveness of debt, or inability to, directly or indirectly, collect all or a part of the principal of or interest on loans provided by the Bank. Changes in such regulation and supervision, or changes in regulation or enforcement by such authorities, whether in the form of policy, regulations, legislation, rules, orders, enforcement actions, ratings, or decisions, could have a material impact on the Company, our subsidiary bank and other affiliates, and our operations, including restrictions on the operation of a bank or a bank holding company and changes in FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments. In addition, failure of the Company or the Bank to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital. See &#8220;Regulation and Supervision&#8221; in Part I, Item 1, &#8220;Business&#8221; earlier in this filing for a detailed description of the federal, state, and local regulations to which the Company and the Bank are subject. 

As a Category IV banking organization with over $100 billion in assets, we are subject to stringent regulations, including reporting, capital stress testing, and liquidity risk management. Non-compliance could result in regulatory risks and restrictions on our activities. 

As a result of the Signature transaction, our total assets exceeded $100 billion and therefore we became classified as a Category IV banking organization under the rules issued by the federal banking agencies that tailor the application of enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies and the capital and liquidity rules to large bank holding companies and depository institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act and the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. As a Category IV banking organization we are subject to enhanced liquidity risk management requirements which include reporting, liquidity stress testing, a liquidity buffer and resolution planning, subject to the applicable transition periods. If we 

were to meet or exceed certain other thresholds for asset size, we would become subject to additional requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could expose us to compliance risks, higher penalties, increased expectations, and limitations on our activities. As a Category IV banking organization, we are required to implement and maintain an adequate liquidity risk management and monitoring process to ensure compliance with these requirements, and our failure to ensure compliance may have adverse consequences on our operations, reputation and future profitability. We anticipate incurring significant expenses to develop policies, programs, and systems that comply with the enhanced standards applicable to us. 

Our enterprise risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating the risks to which we are subject, based upon the size, scope, and complexity of the Company. 

As a financial institution, we are subject to a number of risks, including interest rate, credit, liquidity, legal/compliance, market, strategic, operational, and reputational. Our ERM framework is designed to minimize the risks to which we are subject, as well as any losses stemming from such risks. Although we seek to identify, measure, monitor, report, and control our exposure to such risks, and employ a broad and diverse set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques in the process, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or development of risks that are currently unknown and unanticipated. For example, economic and market conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, and increases in the overall complexity of our operations, among other developments, have resulted in the creation of a variety of risks that were previously unknown and unanticipated, highlighting the intrinsic limitations of our risk monitoring and mitigation techniques. As a result, the further development of previously unknown or unanticipated risks may result in our incurring losses in the future that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, an ineffective ERM framework, as well as other risk factors, could result in a material increase in our FDIC insurance premiums. 

Legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and risks can subject us to heightened scrutiny and reputational damage. 

Data privacy and cybersecurity risks have become a subject of heightened legislative and regulatory focus in recent years. Federal bank regulatory agencies have proposed regulations to enhance cyber risk management standards, which would apply to us and our third-party service providers. These regulations focus on areas such as cyber risk governance, management of dependencies, incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. State-level legislation and regulations have also been proposed or adopted, requiring notification to individuals in the event of a security breach of their personal data. Examples include the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and other state-level privacy, data protection, and data security laws and regulations. We collect, maintain, and use non-public personal information of our customers, clients, employees, and others. The sharing, use, disclosure, and protection of this information are governed by federal and state laws. Compliance with these laws is essential to protect the privacy of personal information and avoid potential liability and reputational damage. Failure to comply with privacy laws and regulations may expose us to fines, litigation, or regulatory enforcement actions. It may also require changes to our systems, business practices, or privacy policies, which could adversely impact our operating results. Privacy initiatives have imposed and will continue to impose additional operational burdens on us. These initiatives may limit our ability to pursue desirable business initiatives and increase the risks associated with any future use of personal data. New privacy and data protection initiatives, such as the CCPA, may require changes to policies, procedures, and technology for information security and data segregation. Non-compliance with these initiatives may make us more vulnerable to operational 

failures and subject to monetary penalties, litigation, or regulatory enforcement actions. 

We are subject to various legal or regulatory investigations and proceedings. 

At any given time, we are involved with a number of legal and regulatory examinations as a part of reviews conducted by regulators and other parties, which may involve banking, securities, consumer protection, employment, tort, and numerous other laws and regulations. Proceedings or actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, business improvement orders, consent orders, supervisory agreements, ratings downgrades, restrictions on our business activities, changes in FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments or other results adverse to us, which could materially and negatively affect our business. If such claims and other matters are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject may provide a private right of action that a consumer or class of consumers may pursue to enforce these laws and regulations. We are currently subject to stockholder class and derivative actions which seek significant damages and other relief, and may be subject to similar actions in the future. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a materially adverse effect on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition and results of operations. Claims asserted against us can be highly complicated and slow to develop, making the outcome of such proceedings difficult to predict or estimate early in the process. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we will be exposed to a high level of litigation and regulatory 

scrutiny relating to our business and operations. Although we establish accruals for legal or regulatory proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal or regulatory proceedings where we face a risk of loss. Due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal and regulatory proceedings in question. As a result, our ultimate losses may be significantly higher than the amounts accrued for 

legal loss contingencies. 

Oversight and Operational Risk 

The Company recently experienced turnover in its Board of Directors and executive management team and is embarking upon a new strategic plan, which creates uncertainties and could harm its business. 

The Company has experienced significant changes in its Board of Directors and executive leadership during 2024. On or shortly after March 11, 2024, Thomas Cangemi, James Carpenter, Leslie Dunn, Lawrence Rosano Jr, Ronald Rosenfeld, Lawrence Savarese, David Treadwell and Robert Wann resigned as directors of the Board. Additionally, in February 2024, Toan C. Huynh and Hanif (Wally) Dahya resigned as directors of the Board. Four directors who were serving on the Board as of December 31, 2023 continue to serve on the Board: Alessandro P. DiNello, Marshall J. Lux, Peter Schoels, and Jennifer R. Whip. Additionally, on or shortly after March 11, 2024, five new directors were appointed to the Board: Former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Joseph Otting, Milton Berlinski, Allen Puwalski and Alan Frank. 

The Company has also recently appointed seven new members to its executive management team, including: Craig Gifford, SEVP, Chief Financial Officer; Bao Nguyen, SEVP, General Counsel &#38; Chief of Staff; Scott Shepherd, SEVP, Head of Commercial Real Estate Lending; George F. Buchanan III, EVP, Chief Risk Officer; Colleen McCullum, EVP, Chief Audit Executive; and James Simons, EVP, Special Advisor to the CEO. 

Changes to strategic or operating goals, which can often times occur with the appointment of new Board members and new executives, can create uncertainty, may negatively impact the Company's ability to execute quickly and effectively, and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, executive leadership transition periods are often difficult as the new executives gain detailed knowledge of the Company's operations. Management turnover inherently causes some loss of institutional knowledge, which can negatively affect strategy and execution. If the Company does not integrate new executives and Board members successfully, the Company may be unable to manage and grow its business, and its financial condition and profitability may suffer as a result. 

In addition, the Company&#8217;s future success will depend on the ability of the Board and the executive management team to effectively develop, implement, and execute a strategic plan. There are risks and uncertainties associated with the creation, implementation and execution of any strategic plan, including the investment of time and resources, the possibility that such strategic plan will ultimately be unprofitable or unsuccessful, and the risk of additional liabilities associated with such strategic plan. The Company&#8217;s successful execution of any strategic plan will require market conditions that will allow the Company to achieve its strategic goals. To the extent the Company is unable to successfully develop, implement, and execute a strategic plan, or if it experiences delays in the development, planning and implementation process, the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 

Completing the diversification of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the plan may not be realized. 

The Company is pursuing a plan to diversify its loan portfolio, which contemplates reducing its commercial real estate concentration, and allow other non-strategic assets to be run off or sold. Implementing and completing this plan is expected to take a considerable amount of time and attention of management and staff as they work to identify, negotiate and execute upon opportunities to reposition the loan portfolio, divest certain assets and effect potential transactions. 

It is possible that the process of diversifying the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio could result in substantial disruption of the Company's business and operations, as the Company may face the unexpected loss of key employees that it relies on to assist with the transition or to work on the Company&#8217;s continuing operations, disruption of its ongoing businesses, higher than anticipated costs, adverse impacts to its relationships with its customers and employees, or a failure to achieve the anticipated benefits and/or cost savings. If difficulties with diversifying the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio are encountered, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The process of diversifying the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio will also divert management attention and resources, and could have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s ability to operate efficiently as well as its results of operations and financial condition during the transition period and beyond. 

The process of effecting the run off or sale of non-strategic or other assets of the Company could also result in substantial disruption of the Company's business and operations for similar reasons as stated above. Further, for any sales or divestitures of assets, the Company&#8217;s ability to effect such divestiture or sale will depend upon various factors, such as the Company&#8217;s ability to identify interested counterparties, counterparties&#8217; willingness to negotiate and enter into transactions with the Company, the potential of required regulatory approvals associated with such divestitures, and the prices and other terms upon which any counterparty would be willing to transact with the Company. No assurances can be made that the Company will be able to enter into or complete any sale or divestiture of any assets or that the failure to do so may have a negative impact on the Company&#8217;s business, operations, liquidity and financial condition. 

