RISK FACTORS

The following discussion sets forth what management 
currently believes could be the material risks and uncertainties 
that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including 
those not currently known to Citi or its management, could 
also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations 
and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and 
uncertainties that Citi may face. For additional information 
about risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi, see 
“Executive Summary” and each respective business’ results of 
operations above and “Managing Global Risk” below. The 
following risk factors are categorized to improve the 
readability and usefulness of the risk factor disclosure, and, 
while the headings and risk factors generally align with Citi’s 
risk categorization, in certain instances the risk factors may 
not directly correspond with how Citi categorizes or manages 
its risks.

MARKET-RELATED RISKS
Macroeconomic, Geopolitical and Other Challenges and 
Uncertainties Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on 
Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations.
In addition to the significant macroeconomic challenges posed 
by the pandemic (see the pandemic-related risk factor below), 
Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, 
negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as 
a result of other macroeconomic, geopolitical and other 
challenges, uncertainties and volatility.

For example, the recent action of Russian military forces 

and support personnel in Ukraine has escalated tensions 
between Russia and the U.S., NATO, the EU and the U.K. The 
U.S. has imposed, and is likely to impose material additional, 
financial and economic sanctions and export controls against 
certain Russian organizations and/or individuals, with similar 
actions either implemented or planned by the EU and the U.K. 
and other jurisdictions. During the week of February 21, 2022, 
the U.S., the U.K., and the EU each imposed packages of 
financial and economic sanctions that, in various ways, 
constrain transactions with numerous Russian entities and 
individuals; transactions in Russian sovereign debt; and 
investment, trade, and financing to, from, or in certain regions 
of Ukraine. Citi’s ability to engage in activity with certain 
consumer and institutional businesses in Russia and Ukraine 
or involving certain Russian or Ukrainian businesses and 
customers is dependent in part upon whether such engagement 
is restricted under any current or expected U.S., EU and other 
countries or U.K. sanctions and laws. Sanctions and export 
controls, as well as any actions by Russia, could adversely 
affect Citi’s business activities and customers in and from 
Russia and Ukraine. Moreover, actions by Russia, and any 
further measures taken by the U.S. or its allies, could have 
negative impacts on regional and global financial markets and 
economic conditions. For additional information about these 
and other related risks, see the operational processes and 
systems, cybersecurity and emerging markets risk factors 
below. For additional information about Citi’s exposures in 

Russia, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country 
Risk—Russia” below.

Additionally, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, 
or expected actions, such as changes in interest rate policies 
and any program implemented by a central bank to change the 
size of its balance sheet, could significantly impact interest 
rates, economic growth rates, the volatility of global financial 
markets, foreign exchange rates and global capital flows. 
Further, it remains uncertain to what extent central banks may 
keep interest rates low or whether central banks might raise 
interest rates or reduce the size of their balance sheets, 
particularly as inflationary pressures continue and the U.S. and 
global economies continue to improve. While earlier in the 
pandemic the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and other central 
banks took actions to support the global economy, including 
by further reducing their benchmark interest rates, mismatches 
between supply and demand of goods and services contributed 
to a rise in inflation in 2021, prompting the FRB to announce 
the approaching end of the period of extraordinarily low 
interest rates. 

Interest rates on loans Citi makes are typically based off 
or set at a spread over a benchmark interest rate, and would 
likely decline or rise as benchmark rates decline or rise, 
respectively. While the interest rates at which Citi pays 
depositors are already low and unlikely to decline much 
further, declining or continued low interest rates for loans 
could further compress Citi’s net interest income. Citi’s net 
interest income could also be adversely affected due to a 
flattening of the interest rate yield curve (e.g., a lower spread 
between shorter-term versus longer-term interest rates), as 
Citi, similar to other banks, typically pays interest on deposits 
based on shorter-term interest rates and earns money on loans 
based on longer-term interest rates.

In contrast, an abrupt and sustained increase in interest 
rates could interfere with the global macroeconomic recovery, 
whether due to continued or increased inflationary pressures or 
otherwise. And while Citi estimates its overall net interest 
income would generally increase due to higher interest rates, 
higher rates could adversely affect Citi’s funding costs, levels 
of deposits in its consumer and institutional businesses and 
certain business or product revenues. For additional 
information on Citi’s interest rate risk, see “Managing Global 
Risk—Market Risk—Net Interest Income at Risk” below.

Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, an 

elevated level of inflation resulting in adverse spill-over 
effects; the ability of Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling; 
slowing of the Chinese economy, including negative economic 
impacts associated with such slowdown or any policy actions; 
significant disruptions and volatility in financial markets; 
other geopolitical tensions and conflicts; protracted or 
widespread trade tensions; financial market, other economic 
and political disruption driven by anti-establishment 
movements; natural disasters; other pandemics; and election 
outcomes. For example, Citi’s market-making businesses can 
suffer losses resulting from the widening of credit spreads due 
to unanticipated changes in financial markets. In addition, 
adverse developments or downturns in one or more of the 
world’s larger economies would likely have a significant 
impact on the global economy or the economies of other 
countries because of global financial and economic linkages.

45

These and additional global macroeconomic, geopolitical 

and other challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have 
negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, 
Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, 
including its credit costs, revenues across ICG and GCB and 
AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and 
tangible book value).

STRATEGIC RISKS
Rapidly Evolving Challenges and Uncertainties Related to 
the COVID-19 Pandemic in the U.S. and Globally Will 
Likely Continue to Have Negative Impacts on Citi’s 
Businesses and Results of Operations and Financial 
Condition.
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected all of the countries and 
jurisdictions in which Citi operates, including severely 
impacting global health, financial markets, consumer and 
business spending and economic conditions. The extent of the 
future pandemic impacts remain uncertain and will likely 
evolve by region, country or state, largely depending on the 
duration and severity of the public health consequences, 
including the duration and further spread of the coronavirus as 
well as any variants becoming more prevalent and impactful; 
further production, distribution, acceptance and effectiveness 
of vaccines; availability and efficiency of testing; the public 
response; and government actions. The future impacts to 
global economic conditions may include, among others: 

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

further disruption of global supply chains; 
higher inflation;
higher interest rates;
significant disruption and volatility in financial markets; 
additional closures, reduced activity and failures of many 
businesses, leading to loss of revenues and net losses;
further institution of social distancing and restrictions on 
businesses and the movement of the public in and among 
the U.S. and other countries; and
reduced U.S. and global economic output.

The pandemic has had, and may continue to have, 
negative impacts on Citi’s businesses and overall results of 
operations and financial condition, which could be material. 
The extent of the impact on Citi’s operations and financial 
performance, including its ability to execute its business 
strategies and initiatives, will continue to depend significantly 
on future developments in the U.S. and globally. Such 
developments are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including 
the course of the coronavirus, as well as any weakness or 
slowing in the economic recovery or a further economic 
downturn, whether due to further supply chain disruptions, 
inflation trends, higher interest rates or otherwise.

The pandemic may not be sufficiently contained for an 

extended period of time. A prolonged health crisis could 
reduce economic activity in the U.S. and other countries, 
resulting in additional declines or weakness in employment 
trends and business and consumer confidence. These factors 
could negatively impact global economic activity and markets; 
cause a continued decline in the demand for Citi’s products 
and services and in its revenues; further increase Citi’s credit 
and other costs; and may result in impairment of long-lived 

assets or goodwill. These factors could also cause an increase 
in Citi’s balance sheet, risk-weighted assets and ACL, 
resulting in a decline in regulatory capital ratios or liquidity 
measures, as well as regulatory demands for higher capital 
levels and/or limitations or reductions in capital distributions 
(such as common share repurchases and dividends). Moreover, 
any disruption or failure of Citi’s performance of, or its ability 
to perform, key business functions, as a result of the continued 
spread of COVID-19 or otherwise, could adversely affect 
Citi’s operations.

The impact of the pandemic on Citi’s consumer and 
corporate borrowers will vary by sector or industry, with some 
borrowers experiencing greater stress levels, particularly as 
credit and customer assistance support further winds down, 
which could lead to increased pressure on their results of 
operations and financial condition, increased borrowings or 
credit ratings downgrades, thus likely leading to higher credit 
costs for Citi. These borrowers include, among others, 
businesses that are more directly impacted by the institution of 
social distancing, the movement of the public and store 
closures. In addition, stress levels ultimately experienced by 
Citi’s borrowers may be different from and more intense than 
assumptions made in prior estimates or models used by Citi, 
resulting in an increase in Citi’s ACL or net credit losses, 
particularly as the benefits of fiscal stimulus and government 
support programs diminish.

Ongoing legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. 

and globally to address the economic impact from the 
pandemic could further affect Citi’s businesses, operations and 
financial performance. Citi could also face challenges, 
including legal and reputational, and scrutiny in its efforts to 
provide relief measures. Such efforts have resulted in, and 
may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions, 
and regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such 
actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties and 
fines adverse to Citi. In addition, the different types of 
government actions could vary in scale and duration across 
jurisdictions and regions with varying degrees of 
effectiveness.

Citi has taken measures to maintain the health and safety 

of its colleagues; however, these measures could result in 
additional expenses, and illness of employees could negatively 
affect staffing for a period of time. In addition, Citi’s ability to 
recruit, hire and onboard colleagues in key areas could be 
negatively impacted by pandemic restrictions as well as Citi’s 
COVID-19 vaccination requirement (see the qualified 
colleagues risk factor below).

Further, it is unclear how the macroeconomic or business 

environment or societal norms may be impacted after the 
pandemic. The post-pandemic environment may undergo 
unexpected developments or changes in financial markets, 
fiscal, monetary, tax and regulatory environments and 
consumer customer and corporate client behavior. These 
developments and changes could have an adverse impact on 
Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing 
business and regulatory uncertainties and changes may make 
Citi’s longer-term business, balance sheet and strategic and 
budget planning more difficult or costly. Citi and its 
management and businesses may also experience increased or 
different competitive and other challenges in this environment. 

46

To the extent that it is not able to adapt or compete effectively, 
Citi could experience loss of business and its results of 
operations and financial condition could suffer (see the 
competitive challenges risk factor below).

Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders 
Consistent with Its Capital Planning Efforts and Targets 
Substantially Depends on Regulatory Capital Requirements, 
Including the Results of the CCAR Process and Regulatory 
Stress Tests.
Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders 
consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether 
through its common stock dividend or through a share 
repurchase program, substantially depends, among other 
things, on regulatory capital requirements, including the Stress 
Capital Buffer (SCB), which is based upon the results of the 
CCAR process required by the FRB as well as the supervisory 
stress tests required under the Dodd- Frank Act (as described 
in more detail below). 

Citi’s ability to return capital also depends on its results of 

operations and financial condition, the capital impact related 
to divestitures, forecasts of macroeconomic conditions, its 
implementation and maintenance of an effective capital 
planning process and management framework, and 
effectiveness in planning, managing and calculating its level 
of risk-weighted assets under both the Advanced Approaches 
and the Standardized Approach, Supplementary Leverage 
Ratio (SLR) and global systemically important bank holding 
company (GSIB) surcharge, which has been made more 
challenging due to elevated levels of liquidity in the financial 
system related to the pandemic (see the macroeconomic 
challenges and uncertainties risk factor above).

Changes in regulatory capital rules, requirements or 

interpretations could have a material impact on Citi’s 
regulatory capital, both as a result of changes in Citi’s reported 
regulatory capital and integration into the CCAR process and 
regulatory stress tests. For example, Citi was required to adopt 
the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-
CCR) as of January 1, 2022, which resulted in an approximate 
$51 billion increase in Citi’s risk-weighted assets under the 
Standardized Approach. Citi voluntarily suspended common 
share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2021, in 
anticipation of the adverse impact resulting from the adoption 
of SA-CCR. Citi will be required to adopt SA-CCR for 
purposes of the supervisory stress test during the 2023 cycle 
and SA-CCR may be considered by management during the 
2022 cycle for purposes of management’s own capital 
adequacy assessment. In addition, the U.S. banking agencies 
may potentially consider a number of changes to the U.S. 
regulatory capital framework in the future, including, but not 
limited to, revisions to the U.S. Basel III rules, recalibration of 
the GSIB surcharge and SLR, and enactment of the 
discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer. All of these 
potential changes could negatively impact Citi’s regulatory 
capital position or increase Citi’s regulatory capital 
requirements.

All CCAR firms, including Citi, will continue to be 
subject to a rigorous regulatory evaluation of capital planning 
practices, including, but not limited to, governance, risk 
management and internal controls. Citi’s ability to return 

47

capital may be adversely impacted if such an evaluation of Citi 
resulted in negative findings. In addition, Citi’s ability to 
accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the 
results of the CCAR process, and thus to address any market 
or investor perceptions, may be limited as the FRB’s 
assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the 
FRB’s proprietary stress test models. For additional 
information on limitations on Citi’s ability to return capital to 
common shareholders, as well as the CCAR process, 
supervisory stress test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see 
“Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—
Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” above and the 
risk management risk factor below.

The FRB has stated that it expects leading capital 
adequacy practices to continue to evolve and to likely be 
determined by the FRB each year as a result of its cross-firm 
review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the FRB has 
indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve 
its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of 
the annual stress testing process may continue to be altered, 
including the severity of the stress test scenario, the FRB 
modeling of Citi’s balance sheet, pre-provision net revenue 
(PPNR) and stress losses, and the addition of components 
deemed important by the FRB.

Beginning January 1, 2022, Citi was required to phase 
into regulatory capital at 25% per year the changes in retained 
earnings, deferred tax assets and ACL determined upon the 
January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date, as well as subsequent 
changes in the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 
31, 2021. The FRB has stated that it plans to maintain its 
current framework for calculating allowances on loans in the 
supervisory stress test through the 2023 supervisory stress test 
cycle, while continuing to evaluate appropriate future 
enhancements to this framework. The impacts on Citi’s capital 
adequacy of the FRB’s incorporation of CECL in its 
supervisory stress tests on an ongoing basis, and of other 
potential regulatory changes in the FRB’s stress testing 
methodologies, remain unclear. For additional information 
regarding the CECL methodology, including the transition 
provisions related to the adverse regulatory capital effects 
resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, see 
“Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards—
Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the 
Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology” above and 
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, the FRB has integrated the annual stress 

testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital 
requirements. For Citigroup, the SCB equals the maximum 
decline in Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the 
supervisory severely adverse scenario over a nine-quarter 
CCAR measurement period, plus four quarters of planned 
common stock dividends, subject to a minimum requirement 
of 2.5%. Effective October 1, 2021, Citi’s SCB was 3.0%. The 
SCB is calculated by the FRB using its proprietary data and 
modeling of each firm’s results. Accordingly, Citi’s SCB may 
change annually, or possibly more frequently, based on the 
supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in 
volatility in the calculation of the SCB. Similar to the other 
regulatory capital buffers, a breach of the SCB would result in 
graduated limitations on capital distributions. For additional 

information on the SCB, including its calculation, see “Capital 
Resources—Regulatory Capital Buffers” above.

Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent 
of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the 
FRB’s regulatory capital, stress testing and CCAR regimes, 
these changes could increase the level of capital Citi is 
required or elects to hold, including as part of Citi’s 
management buffer, thus potentially impacting the extent to 
which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders.

Citi, Its Management and Its Businesses Must Continually 
Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing 
Regulatory and Legislative Uncertainties and Changes in the 
U.S. and Globally.
Despite the adoption of final regulations and laws in numerous 
areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several 
years, Citi, its management and its businesses continually face 
ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes, 
both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing 
regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes facing Citi 
are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, 
but are not limited to (i) potential fiscal, monetary, regulatory, 
tax and other changes arising from the U.S. federal 
government and other governments, including as a result of 
the differing priorities of the current U.S. presidential 
administration, changes in regulatory leadership or focus and 
actions of Congress or in response to the pandemic; (ii) 
potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital 
framework and requirements applicable to Citi (see the capital 
return risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital 
Standards Developments” above); and (iii) future legislative 
and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and globally related to 
climate change, including any new disclosure requirements 
(see the climate change risk factor below). When referring to 
“regulatory,” Citi is including both formal regulation and the 
views and expectations of its regulators in their supervisory 
roles.

U.S. and international regulatory and legislative initiatives 

have not always been undertaken or implemented on a 
coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and 
continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, 
timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even 
conflicting requirements, including within a single 
jurisdiction. For example, in May 2019, the European 
Commission adopted, as part of Capital Requirements 
Directive V (CRD V), a new requirement for major banking 
groups headquartered outside the EU (which would include 
Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where 
the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly 
meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) 
established in the EU. While in some respects the requirement 
mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking 
organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, 
the implementation of the EU holding company requirement 
could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s 
resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and 
efficiency in various jurisdictions.

Moreover, ongoing regulatory and legislative 

uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s 
long-term business, balance sheet and strategic budget 

48

planning difficult, subject to change and potentially more 
costly. U.S. and other regulators globally have implemented 
and continue to discuss various changes to certain regulatory 
requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by 
management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and 
business planning. For example, while the Basel III post-crisis 
regulatory reforms and revised market risk framework have 
been finalized at the international level, there remain 
significant uncertainties with respect to the integration of these 
revisions into the U.S. regulatory capital framework. Business 
planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules 
or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, 
or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from 
numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can 
change.

Regulatory and legislative changes have also significantly 

increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the 
implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk 
factor below) and can adversely affect Citi’s businesses, 
results of operations and financial condition.

Citi’s Continued Investment and Other Initiatives as Part of 
Its Transformation and Strategic Refresh May Not Be as 
Successful as It Projects or Expects.
As part of its transformation initiatives, Citi continues to make 
significant investments to improve its infrastructure, risk 
management and controls and further enhance safety and 
soundness (for additional information, see the legal and 
regulatory proceedings risk factor below). Citi also continues 
to execute on its strategic refresh that includes, among other 
things, its exit of certain consumer banking businesses (see 
below) and its investments to deepen client relationships and 
enhance client offerings and capabilities in order to simplify 
the Company and enhance its allocation of resources. 

For example, Citi continues to invest in its technology and 

digital capabilities across the franchise, including digital 
platforms and mobile and cloud-based solutions. In addition, 
Citi has been making other investments across the Company, 
such as in Citi’s wealth management business, commercial 
banking business, treasury and trade solutions, securities 
services and other businesses, including implementing new 
capabilities and partnerships. Citi has also been pursuing 
productivity improvements through various technology and 
digital initiatives, organizational simplification and location 
strategies. Failure to properly invest in and upgrade Citi’s 
technology and processes could result in an inability to be 
sufficiently competitive, serve clients effectively and avoid 
operational errors (for additional information, see the 
operational processes and systems risk factor below). There is 
no guarantee that these or other initiatives Citi may pursue will 
be as productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all.

Furthermore, Citi’s strategic refresh necessitates further 

changes in and exits of certain businesses, which involve 
significant execution complexity, and could result in 
additional losses, charges or other negative financial impacts. 
For example, Citi may not be able to achieve its objectives 
related to its exits of 13 consumer markets in Asia and EMEA 
or exit of the consumer, small business and middle-market 
banking operations in Mexico. These exits may not be as 
productive, effective or timely as Citi expects and may result 

in additional foreign currency translation adjustments (CTA) 
or other losses, charges or other negative financial or strategic 
impacts, which could be material. For additional information 
on CTA losses, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates risk 
factor below.

Citi’s investment and other initiatives may continue to 
evolve as its business strategies, the market environment and 
regulatory expectations change, which could make the 
initiatives more costly and more challenging to implement, 
and limit their effectiveness. Moreover, Citi’s ability to 
achieve expected returns on its investments and costs savings 
depends, in part, on factors that it cannot control, including, 
among others, interest rates; inflation; impacts related to the 
pandemic; customer, client and competitor actions; and 
ongoing regulatory changes.

Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the 
Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, 
Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable 
Income.
At December 31, 2021, Citi’s net DTAs were $24.8 billion, 
net of a valuation allowance of $4.2 billion, of which $9.5 
billion was deducted from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules, primarily relating to net 
operating losses, foreign tax credit and general business credit 
carry-forwards (for additional information, see “Capital 
Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital” above). 

Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2021, $2.8 billion 

related to foreign tax credit (FTC) carry-forwards, net of a 
valuation allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for 
FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive 
component of Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at 
December 31, 2021 expire over the period of 2022–2029. Citi 
must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current-year tax 
return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.

The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, 

including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment 
and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the 
jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax 
planning strategies. Forecasts of future taxable earnings will 
depend upon various factors, including, among others, the 
continued impact of the pandemic and other macroeconomic 
conditions. In addition, any future increase in U.S. corporate 
tax rates could result in an increase in Citi’s DTA, which may 
subject more of Citi’s existing DTA to exclusion from 
regulatory capital while improving Citi’s ability to utilize its 
FTC carry-forwards. 

Citi’s overall ability to realize its DTAs will primarily be 
dependent upon its ability to generate U.S. taxable income in 
the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Although utilization of 
FTCs in any year is generally limited to 21% of foreign source 
taxable income in that year, overall domestic losses (ODL) 
that Citi has incurred in the past allow it to reclassify domestic 
source income as foreign source. Failure to realize any portion 
of the net DTAs would have a corresponding negative impact 
on Citi’s net income and financial returns.

Citi has not been and does not expect to be subject to the 
Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT), which, if applicable to 
Citi in any given year, would have a significantly adverse 
effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital.

49

For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including 

FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant 
Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 9 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax 
Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the 
Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in 
Litigation or Examinations and the Payment of Additional 
Taxes, Penalties or Interest.
Citi is subject to various income-based tax laws of the U.S. 
and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-
U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are 
inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and 
interpretations about the application of these laws, including 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform), to its entities, 
operations and businesses. In addition, Citi is subject to 
litigation or examinations with U.S. and non-U.S. tax 
authorities regarding non-income-based tax matters. Citi’s 
interpretations or application of the tax laws, including with 
respect to Tax Reform, withholding, stamp, service and other 
non-income taxes, could differ from that of the relevant 
governmental taxing authority, which could result in the 
requirement to pay additional taxes, penalties or interest, 
which could be material. For additional information on the 
litigation and examinations involving non-U.S. tax authorities, 
see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co-
Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships, 
Including as a Result of Early Termination, Bankruptcy or 
Liquidation, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results 
of Operations or Financial Condition.
Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its 
branded cards and retail services credit card businesses with 
various retailers and merchants globally, whereby in the 
ordinary course of business Citi issues credit cards to 
customers of the retailers or merchants. The five largest 
relationships across both businesses in North America GCB 
constituted an aggregate of approximately 9% of Citi’s 
revenues in 2021 (for additional information, see “Global 
Consumer Banking—North America GCB” above). Citi’s co-
branding and private label agreements provide for shared 
economics between the parties and generally have a fixed 
term.

Over the last several years, a number of U.S. retailers 

have continued to experience declining sales due to the 
pandemic or otherwise, which has resulted in significant 
numbers of store closures and, in a number of cases, 
bankruptcies, as retailers attempt to cut costs and reorganize. 
In addition, as has been widely reported, competition among 
card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is 
significant, and it has become increasingly difficult in recent 
years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at 
all.

Citi’s co-branding and private label relationships could be 

negatively impacted by, among other things, the general 
economic environment; changes in consumer sentiment, 
spending patterns and credit card usage behaviors; a decline in 
sales and revenues, partner store closures, government 

imposed restrictions, reduced air and business travel, or other 
operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant; early 
termination due to a contractual breach or exercise of other 
early termination right; or other factors, including 
bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations or 
other similar events, whether due to the ongoing impact of the 
pandemic or otherwise (see the pandemic-related risk factor 
above).

While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi 
if any of the above events were to occur—such as by replacing 
the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—these 
events, particularly early termination and bankruptcies or 
liquidations, could negatively impact the results of operations 
or financial condition of branded cards, retail services or Citi 
as a whole, including as a result of loss of revenues, increased 
expenses, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit 
card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other 
losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles 
generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements).

Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to 
Address Any Shortcomings or Deficiencies Identified or 
Guidance Provided by the FRB and FDIC Could Subject Citi 
to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity 
Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or 
Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest 
Assets or Operations.
Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and 
submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly 
resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its 
significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 
the event of future material financial distress or failure. The 
eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, filed their most recent 
resolution plans with the FRB and FDIC on July 1, 2021. For 
additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, 
see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine 

that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although 
not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do 
not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow Citi 
to be resolved in a way that protects systemically important 
functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not 
facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan 
that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be 
subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity 
requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or 
operations. If within two years from the imposition of any 
such requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated 
any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be 
required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such 
restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s 
reputation, market and investor perception, operations and 
strategy.

Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual 
Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able 
to Effectively Compete for, Retain and Motivate Highly 
Qualified Colleagues.

50

Recent employment conditions have made the competition to 
hire and retain qualified employees significantly more 
challenging. Citi’s performance and the performance of its 
individual businesses largely depend on the talents and efforts 
of its diverse and highly qualified colleagues. Specifically, 
Citi’s continued ability to compete in each of its lines of 
business, to manage its businesses effectively and to execute 
its global strategy depends on its ability to attract new 
colleagues and to retain and motivate its existing colleagues. If 
Citi is unable to continue to attract, retain and motivate the 
most highly qualified colleagues, Citi’s performance, 
including its competitive position, the execution of its strategy 
and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.
Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues 
depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its 
control. For example, the competition for talent recently has 
been particularly intense because of economic conditions 
associated with the pandemic. Also, the banking industry 
generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation of 
employee compensation than other industries, including 
deferral and clawback requirements for incentive 
compensation, which can make it unusually challenging for 
Citi to compete in labor markets against businesses that are not 
subject to such regulation. Citi often competes for talent with 
such businesses, including, among others, technology 
companies. Further, Citi’s vaccination requirement for its 
U.S.-based employees could make it more difficult to compete 
for or retain colleagues. Other factors that could impact its 
ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues include, 
among other things, Citi’s presence in a particular market or 
region, the professional opportunities it offers and its 
reputation. For information on Citi’s colleagues and workforce 
management, see “Human Capital Resources and 
Management” below.

Financial Services Companies and Others as well as 
Emerging Technologies Pose Increasingly Competitive 
Challenges to Citi.
Citi operates in an increasingly evolving and competitive 
business environment, which includes both financial and non-
financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online 
banks, financial technology companies and others. These 
companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, size, 
reach, quality and type of products and services offered, price, 
technology and reputation. Certain competitors may be subject 
to different and, in some cases, less stringent legal and 
regulatory requirements, placing Citi at a competitive 
disadvantage. 

Citi competes with financial services companies in the 
U.S. and globally that continue to develop and introduce new 
products and services. In recent years, non-financial services 
firms, such as financial technology companies, have begun to 
offer services traditionally provided by financial institutions, 
such as Citi, and have sought bank charters to provide these 
services. These firms attempt to use technology and mobile 
platforms to enhance the ability of companies and individuals 
to borrow, save and invest money. 

Moreover, emerging technologies have the potential to 
intensify competition and accelerate disruption in the financial 
services industry. For example, there is increasing interest 

from clients and investors in digital assets such as 
cryptocurrencies. Financial services firms and other market 
participants have begun to offer services related to those assets 
such as custody and trading. However, Citi may not be able to 
provide the same or similar services for legal or regulatory 
reasons and such services increase compliance risk. In 
addition, changes in the payments space (e.g., instant and 24x7 
payments) are accelerating, and, as a result, certain of Citi’s 
products and services could become less competitive.

In addition, as discussed above, it is unclear how the 
macroeconomic business environment or societal norms may 
be impacted as a result of the pandemic. Citi may experience 
increased or different competitive and other challenges in a 
post-pandemic environment. Increased competition and 
emerging technologies have required and could require Citi to 
change or adapt its products and services to attract and retain 
customers or clients or to compete more effectively with 
competitors, including new market entrants. Simultaneously, 
as Citi develops new products and services leveraging 
emerging technologies, new risks may emerge that, if not 
designed and governed adequately, may result in control gaps 
and in Citi operating outside of its risk appetite. For example, 
instant and 24x7 payments products could be accompanied by 
challenges to forecasting and managing liquidity, as well as 
increased operational and compliance risks.

To the extent that Citi is not able to compete effectively 

with financial technology companies and other firms, Citi 
could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could 
result in loss of customers and market share, and its 
businesses, results of operations and financial condition could 
suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see 
the co-brand and private label cards and qualified colleagues 
risk factors above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—
Competition” below.

OPERATIONAL RISKS
A Failure or Disruption of Citi’s Operational Processes or 
Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, 
Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and 
Financial Condition.
Citi’s global operations rely heavily on its technology, 
including the accurate, timely and secure processing, 
management, storage and transmission of confidential 
transactions, data and other information as well as the 
monitoring of a substantial amount of data and complex 
transactions in real time. For example, Citi obtains and stores 
an extensive amount of personal and client-specific 
information for its consumer and institutional customers and 
clients, and must accurately record and reflect their extensive 
account transactions. Citi’s operations must also comply with 
complex and evolving laws and regulations in the countries in 
which it operates.

of Citi’s colleagues have worked remotely and customers and 
clients have increased their use of online banking and other 
platforms (for additional information, see the pandemic-
related risk factor above and the cybersecurity risk factor 
below).

Although Citi has continued to upgrade its technology, 

including systems to automate processes and enhance 
efficiencies, operational incidents are unpredictable and can 
arise from numerous sources, not all of which are fully within 
Citi’s control. These include, among others, human error, such 
as manual transaction processing errors; fraud or malice on the 
part of employees or third parties; accidental system or 
technological failure; electrical or telecommunication outages; 
failures of or cyber incidents involving computer servers or 
infrastructure; or other similar losses or damage to Citi’s 
property or assets (see also the climate change risk factor 
below). For example, Citi has experienced and could 
experience further losses associated with manual transaction 
processing errors (for additional information, see “Revlon-
Related Wire Transfer Litigation” in Note 27 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Irrespective of the sophistication of the technology 
utilized by Citi, there will always be some room for human 
error. In view of the large transactions in which Citi engages, 
such errors could result in significant loss. 

Operational incidents can also arise as a result of failures 
by third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures 
by internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or 
other vendors to adequately follow procedures or processes, 
safeguard their systems or prevent system disruptions or cyber 
attacks.

Incidents that impact information security and/or 

technology operations may cause disruptions and/or 
malfunctions within Citi’s businesses (e.g., the temporary loss 
of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile 
banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, 
customers or other third parties. In addition, operational 
incidents could involve the failure or ineffectiveness of 
internal processes or controls. 

Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of 
transactions processed by Citi, certain failures, errors or 
actions may be repeated or compounded before they are 
discovered and rectified, which would further increase the 
consequences and costs. Operational incidents could result in 
financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss 
of confidential and other information or assets, which could 
significantly negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, 
clients, businesses or results of operations and financial 
condition. Cyber-related and other operational incidents can 
also result in legal and regulatory proceedings, fines and other 
costs (see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor 
below).

With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and 

For information on Citi’s management of operational risk, 

see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk” below.

the increasing use of the internet, mobile devices and cloud 
technologies to conduct financial transactions, large global 
financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue 
to be, subject to an ever-increasing risk of operational loss, 
failure or disruption, including as a result of cyber or 
information security incidents. These risks have been 
exacerbated during the pandemic, when a substantial portion 

51

Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks 
Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Susceptible to an 
Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving, Sophisticated 
Cybersecurity Activities That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, 
Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer 
Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs 
to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial 
Losses.
Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to 
ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or 
destruction of data (including confidential client information), 
account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses 
or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar 
events. These threats can arise from external parties, including 
cyber criminals, cyber terrorists, hacktivists and nation-state 
actors, as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly 
engage in or enable malicious cyber activities.

Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as 
retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do 
business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, 
particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s 
security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources 
certain functions, such as processing customer credit card 
transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites 
and developing software for new products and services. These 
relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer 
information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi 
websites, which could lead to compromise or the potential to 
introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security 
breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because 
financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected 
with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including 
as a result of derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi 
has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties. 
While many of Citi’s agreements with third parties include 
indemnification provisions, Citi may not be able to recover 
sufficiently, or at all, under the provisions to adequately offset 
any losses Citi may incur from third-party cyber incidents.
Citi has been subject to attempted and sometimes 
successful cyber attacks from external sources over the last 
several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which 
attempt to interrupt service to clients and customers, (ii) 
hacking and malicious software installations, intended to gain 
unauthorized access to information systems or to disrupt those 
systems, (iii) data breaches due to unauthorized access to 
customer account data and (iv) malicious software attacks on 
client systems, in an attempt to gain unauthorized access to 
Citi systems or client data under the guise of normal client 
transactions. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services 
were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its 
systems before they became significant, they still resulted in 
limited losses in some instances as well as increases in 
expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future 
cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber 
incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more 
frequently and on a more significant scale.

Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to 

implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its 
systems and networks with measures such as intrusion 
detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical 

52

business applications, there is no guarantee that these 
measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. 
Because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change 
frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched 
or even later, Citi may be unable to implement effective 
preventive measures or proactively address these methods 
until they are discovered. In addition, given the evolving 
nature of cyber threat actors and the frequency and 
sophistication of the cyber activities they carry out, the 
determination of the severity and potential impact of a cyber 
incident may not become apparent for a substantial period of 
time following discovery of the incident. Also, while Citi 
engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting 
from outsourcing, such as performing security control 
assessments of third-party vendors and limiting third-party 
access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job 
functions, these actions cannot prevent all third-party-related 
cyber attacks or data breaches.

Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, 

confidential or proprietary customer or client information, 
damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, 
customer dissatisfaction and additional costs to Citi, including 
expenses such as repairing systems, replacing customer 
payment cards, credit monitoring or adding new personnel or 
protection technologies. Regulatory penalties, loss of 
revenues, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, 
including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and 
customers and disruption to Citi’s operational systems could 
also result from cyber incidents (for additional information on 
the potential impact of operational disruptions, see the 
operational processes and systems risk factor above). 
Moreover, the increasing risk of cyber incidents has resulted in 
increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ 
cybersecurity protection services and calls for additional laws 
and regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ 
personal data.

While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject 

to policy terms and conditions including significant self- 
insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such 
insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and 
may not take into account reputational harm, the cost of which 
could be immeasurable.

For additional information about Citi’s management of 

cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational 
Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below.

Changes to or the Application of Incorrect Assumptions, 
Judgments or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements 
Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses or Impacts in 
the Future.
U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions, 
judgments and estimates in preparing its financial statements, 
including, among other items, the estimate of the ACL; 
reserves related to litigation, regulatory and tax matters 
exposures; valuation of DTAs; the fair values of certain assets 
and liabilities; and the assessment of goodwill or other assets 
for impairment. If Citi’s assumptions, judgments or estimates 
underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from 
actual or subsequent events, Citi could experience unexpected 

losses or other adverse impacts, some of which could be 
significant.

For example, the CECL methodology requires that Citi 
provide reserves for a current estimate of lifetime expected 
credit losses for its loan portfolios and other financial assets, 
as applicable, at the time those assets are originated or 
acquired. This estimate is adjusted each period for changes in 
expected lifetime credit losses. Citi’s ACL estimate depends 
upon its CECL models and assumptions, forecasted 
macroeconomic conditions, including, among other things, 
U.S. unemployment rate and U.S. Real GDP, and the credit 
indicators, composition and other characteristics of Citi’s loan 
and other applicable financial assets. These model 
assumptions and forecasted macroeconomic conditions will 
change over time, whether due to the pandemic or otherwise, 
resulting in greater variability in Citi’s ACL compared to its 
provision for loan losses under the previous GAAP 
methodology, and, thus, impact its results of operations and 
financial condition, as well as regulatory capital due to the 
CECL phase-in beginning January 1, 2022.

Moreover, Citi has incurred losses related to its foreign 

operations that are reported in the CTA components of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). In 
accordance with U.S. GAAP, a sale, substantial liquidation or 
any other deconsolidation event of any foreign operations, 
such as those related to Citi’s legacy or exit businesses, would 
result in reclassification of any foreign CTA component of 
AOCI related to that foreign operation, including related 
hedges and taxes, into Citi’s earnings. For example, Citi 
incurred a pretax loss of approximately $680 million ($580 
million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2021 related to the sale 
of Citi’s Australia consumer banking business in Asia GCB, 
primarily reflecting the impact of a CTA loss. For additional 
information on Citi’s accounting policy for foreign currency 
translation and its foreign CTA components of AOCI, see 
Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 
additional information on the key areas for which assumptions 
and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, 
including those related to Citi’s ACL, see “Significant 
Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and 
Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards 
or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How 
Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.
Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards 
that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or 
interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, 
including those areas where Citi is required to make 
assumptions or estimates. Changes to financial accounting or 
reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or 
required by the FASB or other regulators, could present 
operational challenges and could also require Citi to change 
certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in 
preparing its financial statements, which could negatively 
impact how it records and reports its financial condition and 
results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular 
businesses. For additional information on Citi’s accounting 

53

policies and changes in accounting, including the expected 
impacts on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition, 
see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

If Citi’s Risk Management Processes, Strategies or Models 
Are Deficient or Ineffective, Citi May Incur Significant 
Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could 
Be Negatively Impacted.
Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management 
and mitigation processes and strategies, including use of 
models in enacting processes and strategies as well as in 
analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in 
conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part 
of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across the 
Company. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and 
manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is 
made even more challenging within a global financial 
institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse 
and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in 
which Citi operates as well as that losses can occur 
unintentionally from untimely, inaccurate or incomplete 
processes.

In addition, in October 2020, Citigroup and Citibank 

entered into consent orders with the FRB and OCC that 
require Citigroup and Citibank to make improvements in 
various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, 
compliance, data quality management and governance and 
internal controls (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” 
above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor 
below).

Citi’s risk management processes, strategies and models 

are inherently limited because they involve techniques, 
including the use of historical data in many circumstances, 
assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every 
economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi 
operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of 
such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses, and its 
regulatory capital and capital ratios could be negatively 
impacted, if Citi’s risk management processes, including its 
ability to manage and aggregate data in a timely and accurate 
manner, strategies or models are deficient or ineffective. Such 
deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also result in inaccurate 
financial, regulatory or risk reporting.

Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, 
including its credit, market and operational risk models, 
currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and 
approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or 
enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. 
Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing 
reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided 
by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital 
framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could 
continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk- 
weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s 
capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital 
requirements.

CREDIT RISKS
Credit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the 
Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.
Credit risk primarily arises from Citi’s lending and other 
businesses in both ICG and GCB. Citi has credit exposures to 
consumer, corporate and public sector borrowers and other 
counterparties in the U.S. and various countries and 
jurisdictions globally, including end-of-period consumer loans 
of $271 billion and end-of-period corporate loans of $397 
billion at year-end 2021.

A default by a borrower or other counterparty, or a 
decline in the credit quality or value of any underlying 
collateral, exposes Citi to credit risk. Despite Citi’s target 
client strategy, various macroeconomic, geopolitical and other 
factors, among other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and 
credit costs, particularly for certain sectors, industries or 
countries (for additional information, see the pandemic-
related, co-branding and private label credit card and 
macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factors 
above and the emerging markets risk factor below). For 
example, a weakening of economic conditions, including 
higher unemployment levels, can adversely affect borrowers’ 
ability to repay their obligations. In addition, weakening 
economic conditions may result in Citi being unable to 
liquidate its collateral, as well as disputes with counterparties 
regarding the valuation of collateral Citi holds and Citi being 
unable to realize the fair value of such collateral.

While Citi provides reserves for expected losses for its 
credit exposures, as applicable, such reserves are subject to 
judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from 
actual future events. Under the CECL accounting standard, the 
ACL reflects expected losses, rather than incurred losses, 
which has resulted in and could lead to additional volatility in 
the allowance and the provision for credit losses as forecasts 
of economic conditions change. In addition, Citi’s future 
allowance may be affected by seasonality of its cards portfolio 
balances based on historical evidence showing that (i) credit 
card balances typically decrease during the first and second 
quarters, as borrowers use tax refunds to pay down balances; 
and (ii) balances increase during the third and fourth quarters 
each year as payments are no longer impacted by tax refunds 
and the holiday season approaches. However, these seasonal 
trends could be affected in 2022 due to the impacts of the 
pandemic, government stimulus and expiration of consumer 
and small business relief programs. For additional 
information, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates and 
changes to financial accounting and reporting standards risk 
factors above. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see 
“Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” 
below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. For additional information on Citi’s credit and 
country risk, see each respective business’s results of 
operations above and “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk” 
and “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk” 
below and Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.

Concentrations of risk to clients or counterparties engaged 

in the same or related industries or doing business in a 
particular geography, especially credit and market risks, can 
also increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of year-end 

54

2021, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was 
with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily 
results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. 
government and its agencies (for additional information, 
including concentrations of credit risk to other public sector 
entities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). In addition, Citi routinely executes a high volume 
of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange 
transactions with non-U.S. sovereigns and with counterparties 
in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance 
companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and 
other financial institutions. Moreover, Citi has indemnification 
obligations in connection with various transactions that expose 
it to concentrations of risk, including credit risk from hedging 
or reinsurance arrangements related to those obligations (for 
additional information about these exposures, see Note 26 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements). A rapid deterioration 
of a large borrower or other counterparty or within a sector or 
country in which Citi has large exposures or indemnifications 
or unexpected market dislocations could cause Citi to incur 
significant losses.

LIQUIDITY RISKS
The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding 
Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of 
Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in 
Citi’s Credit Spreads.
As a large, global financial institution, adequate liquidity and 
sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s 
liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and 
negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as 
general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental 
fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative 
investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness, unexpected 
increases in cash or collateral requirements and the inability to 
monetize available liquidity resources, whether due to the 
pandemic or otherwise. Citi competes with other banks and 
financial institutions for both institutional and consumer 
deposits, which represent Citi’s most stable and lowest cost 
source of long-term funding. The competition for deposits has 
continued to increase in recent years, including, among others, 
as a result of online banks and digital banking. Furthermore, 
although Citi has had robust deposit growth since the onset of 
the pandemic, it remains unclear how “sticky” (likely to 
remain at Citi) those deposits may be, particularly in a less 
monetarily accommodative environment.

Moreover, Citi’s costs to obtain and access secured 
funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related 
to its credit spreads and changes in interest and currency 
exchange rates. Changes in credit spreads are driven by both 
external market factors and factors specific to Citi, such as 
negative views by investors of the financial services industry 
or Citi’s financial prospects, and can be highly volatile. For 
additional information on Citi’s primary sources of funding, 
see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired and its 
cost of funding could increase if other market participants are 
seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market 
appetite declines, as is likely to occur in a liquidity stress event 
or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could 

also cause a temporary or lengthier dislocation of underwriting 
and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing 
organizations, central banks, clients and financial institutions 
with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require 
additional collateral based on their perceptions or the market 
conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and 
cost of funding.

In addition, as a holding company, Citi relies on interest, 

dividends, distributions and other payments from its 
subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and 
other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. 
subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other 
liquidity, regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability 
to provide such payments, including any local regulatory 
stress test requirements. Citi’s broker-dealer and bank 
subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or 
transact with affiliates, as well as restrictions on their ability to 
use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts 
to fund their businesses. Limitations on the payments that Citi 
receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. A 
bank holding company is required by law to act as a source of 
financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a 
result, the FRB may require Citi to commit resources to its 
subsidiary banks even if doing so is not otherwise in the 
interests of Citi or its shareholders or creditors, reducing the 
amount of funds available to meet its obligations. In addition, 
in the event of a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization, 
Citi’s right to participate in a distribution of such subsidiary’s 
assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s 
creditors.

The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit 
Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and a Ratings 
Downgrade Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s 
Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity 
and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives 
Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral 
Requirements.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P 
Global Ratings, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its 
subsidiaries. Their ratings of Citi and its more significant 
subsidiaries’ long-term/ senior debt and short-term/
commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including 
standalone financial strength, as well as factors that are not 
entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as 
the agencies’ proprietary rating methodologies and 
assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services 
industry and markets generally.

Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their 

current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade could 
negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets 
and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, 
and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings 
downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s 
funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity and the 
impact from derivative triggers, which could require Citi to 
meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, 
a ratings downgrade could have a negative impact on other 
funding sources such as secured financing and other margined 
transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, and 

55

on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of 
Citi’s counterparties and clients that may contain minimum 
ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. 
Some entities could have ratings limitations on their 
permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be 
aware.

Furthermore, a credit ratings downgrade could have 

impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not 
possible to quantify. Certain of Citi’s corporate customers and 
trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate 
their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of 
certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to 
ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty 
behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but 
also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For 
additional information on the potential impact of a reduction 
in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global 
Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

COMPLIANCE RISKS
Ongoing Interpretation and Implementation of Regulatory 
and Legislative Requirements and Changes and Heightened 
Regulatory Scrutiny and Expectations in the U.S. and 
Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance, Regulatory and 
Other Risks and Costs.
Citi is continually required to interpret and implement 
extensive and frequently changing regulatory and legislative 
requirements in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which it 
does business, resulting in substantial compliance, regulatory 
and other risks and costs. In addition, there are heightened 
regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally 
for large financial institutions, as well as their employees and 
agents, with respect to governance, infrastructure, data and 
risk management practices and controls. These requirements 
and expectations also include, among other things, those 
related to customer and client protection, market practices, 
anti-money laundering and sanctions. A failure to comply with 
these requirements and expectations or resolve any identified 
deficiencies could result in increased regulatory oversight and 
restrictions, enforcement proceedings, penalties and fines (for 
additional information, see the legal and regulatory 
proceedings risk factor below). 

Over the past several years, Citi has been required to 
implement a significant number of regulatory and legislative 
changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these 
changes continue. The changes themselves may be complex 
and subject to interpretation, and will require continued 
investments in Citi’s global operations and technology 
solutions. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory 
or legislative requirement is occurring simultaneously with 
changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges 
or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact 
new rules. Moreover, in some cases, there have been entirely 
new regulatory or legislative requirements or regimes, 
resulting in large volumes of regulation and potential 
uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations for compliance.
Examples of regulatory or legislative changes that have 
resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) 
various laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data 
movement and/or collection and use of customer information, 

including data localization and protection and privacy laws, 
which also can conflict with or increase compliance 
complexity with respect to other laws, including anti-money 
laundering laws; (ii) the FRB’s “total loss absorbing 
capacity” (TLAC) requirements; and (iii) the U.S. banking 
agencies’ regulatory capital rules and requirements, which 
have continued to evolve (for additional information, see the 
capital return risk factor and “Capital Resources” above). In 
addition, the U.S. banking agencies have prioritized issues of 
social, economic and racial justice, and are in the process of 
considering ways in which these issues can be mitigated, 
including through rulemaking, supervision and other means.
Increased and ongoing compliance and regulatory 
requirements, uncertainties, scrutiny and expectations have 
resulted in higher compliance costs for Citi, in part due to an 
increase in risk, regulatory and compliance staff over the last 
several years. Extensive and changing compliance 
requirements can also result in increased reputational and legal 
risks for Citi, as failure to comply with regulations and 
requirements, or failure to comply with regulatory 
expectations, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory 
proceedings, penalties and fines.

Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings, Examinations, Investigations, Consent Orders 
and Related Compliance Efforts and Other Inquiries That 
Could Result in Significant Monetary Penalties, Supervisory 
or Enforcement Orders, Business Restrictions, Limitations 
on Dividends, Changes to Directors and/or Officers and 
Collateral Consequences Arising from Such Outcomes.
At any given time, Citi is a party to a significant number of 
legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous 
governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations, 
consent orders and related compliance efforts, and other 
inquiries. Citi can also be subject to enforcement proceedings 
not only because of violations of laws and regulations, but also 
due to failures, as determined by its regulators, to have 
adequate policies and procedures, or to remedy deficiencies on 
a timely basis.

The October 2020 FRB and OCC consent orders require 

Citigroup and Citibank to implement targeted action plans and 
quarterly progress reports detailing the results and status of 
improvements relating principally to various aspects of 
enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality 
management and governance and internal controls. These 
improvements will result in continued significant investments 
by Citi during 2022 and beyond, as an essential part of Citi’s 
broader transformation efforts to enhance its infrastructure, 
governance, processes and risk and controls. 

Although there are no restrictions on Citi’s ability to serve 

its clients, the OCC consent order requires Citibank to obtain 
prior approval of any significant new acquisition, including 
any portfolio or business acquisition, excluding ordinary 
course transactions. Moreover, the OCC consent order 
provides that the OCC has the right to assess future civil 
money penalties or take other supervisory and/or enforcement 
actions, including where the OCC determines Citibank has not 
made sufficient and sustainable progress to address the 
required improvements. Such actions by the OCC could 
include imposing business restrictions, including possible 

56

limitations on the declaration or payment of dividends and 
changes in directors and/or senior executive officers. More 
generally, the OCC and/or the FRB could take additional 
enforcement or other actions if the regulatory agency believes 
that Citi has not met regulatory expectations regarding 
compliance with the consent orders. For additional 
information regarding the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent 
Order Compliance” above.

The global judicial, regulatory and political environment 
has generally been challenging for large financial institutions. 
The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and 
enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global 
scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or 
issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping 
investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple 
federal and state agencies and authorities in the U.S. or by 
multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different 
jurisdictions, as well as multiple civil litigation claims in 
multiple jurisdictions.

U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly 
focused on “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the risks 
associated with behavior by employees and agents, including 
third parties, that could harm clients, customers, employees or 
the integrity of the markets, such as improperly creating, 
selling, marketing or managing products and services or 
improper incentive compensation programs with respect 
thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or 
failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In 
addition to the greater focus on conduct risk, the general 
heightened scrutiny and expectations from regulators could 
lead to investigations and other inquiries, as well as 
remediation requirements, more regulatory or other 
enforcement proceedings, civil litigation and higher 
compliance and other risks and costs.

Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and 
detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially 
harm clients, customers, employees or the integrity of the 
markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or 
prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall 
culture of financial services firms, including Citi.

In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes 
that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, 
such focus could also lead to additional regulatory 
proceedings. Furthermore, the severity of the remedies sought 
in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has 
remained elevated. U.S. and certain non-U.S. governmental 
entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or 
have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions 
and individual employees, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. 
have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or 
deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and 
individuals and other criminal sanctions for those institutions 
and individuals. These types of actions by U.S. and 
international governmental entities may, in the future, have 
significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, 
including loss of customers and business, and the inability to 
offer certain products or services and/or operate certain 
businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to 
similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, 
substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial 

costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters 
or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could 
materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business 
practices, financial condition or results of operations, require 
material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational 
harm.

Further, many large claims—both private civil and 
regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to 
develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The 
outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate 
until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes 
accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to 
accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, 
these accruals involve significant judgment and may be 
subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss 
ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be 
substantially higher than the amounts accrued (see the 
incorrect assumptions or estimates risk factor above). In 
addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and 
may not be approved.

OTHER RISKS
Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to 
Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and 
Regulatory Risks and Costs.
During 2021, emerging markets revenues accounted for 
approximately 35% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally 
defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia 
(other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), and central 
and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa in EMEA).
Although Citi continues to pursue its target client 
strategy, Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to 
various risks, such as limitations or unavailability of hedges on 
foreign investments; foreign currency volatility, including 
devaluations, sovereign volatility, election outcomes, 
regulatory changes and political events; foreign exchange 
controls, including inability to access indirect foreign 
exchange mechanisms; macroeconomic volatility and 
disruptions, including with respect to commodity prices; 
limitations on foreign investment; sociopolitical instability 
(including from hyperinflation); fraud; nationalization or loss 
of licenses; business restrictions; sanctions or asset freezes; 
potential criminal charges; closure of branches or subsidiaries; 
and confiscation of assets, whether related to geopolitical 
conflicts or otherwise; and these risks can be exacerbated in 
the event of a deterioration in relationships between the U.S. 
and an emerging market country. For example, Citi operates in 
several countries that have, or have had in the past, strict 
capital and currency controls, such as Argentina, that limit its 
ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or 
transfer funds outside of those countries. Among other things, 
Citi faces a risk of devaluation on its unhedged Argentine 
peso-denominated assets, which continue to increase (for 
further information on this and other risks, see “Managing 
Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—Argentina” 
below).

Moreover, if the economic situation in an emerging 
markets country in which Citi operates were to deteriorate 
below a certain level, U.S. regulators may impose mandatory 
loan loss or other reserve requirements on Citi, which would 

57

increase its credit costs and decrease its earnings (for further 
information, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—
Country Risk—Argentina” below). 

In addition, political turmoil and instability have occurred 

in various regions and emerging market countries across the 
globe which have required, and may continue to require, 
management time and attention and other resources (such as 
monitoring the impact of sanctions on certain emerging 
markets economies as well as impacting Citi’s businesses and 
results of operations in affected countries).

Climate Change Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Citi operates in countries, states and regions in which many of 
its businesses, and the activities of many of its customers and 
clients, are exposed to the adverse impacts of climate change, 
as well as uncertainties related to the transition to a low-
carbon economy. Climate change presents both immediate and 
long-term risks to Citi and its customers and clients, with the 
risks expected to increase over time.

Climate risks can arise from both physical risks (those 
risks related to the physical effects of climate change) and 
transition risks (risks related to regulatory, compliance, 
technological, stakeholder and legal changes from a transition 
to a low-carbon economy). The physical and transition risks 
can manifest themselves differently across Citi’s risk 
categories in the short, medium and long terms. 

The physical risk from climate change could result from 
increased frequency and/or severity of adverse weather events. 
For example, adverse weather events could damage or destroy 
Citi’s or its counterparties’ properties and other assets and 
disrupt operations, making it more difficult for counterparties 
to repay their obligations, whether due to reduced profitability, 
asset devaluations or otherwise. These events could also 
increase the volatility in financial markets affecting Citi’s 
trading businesses and increase its counterparty exposures and 
other financial risks, which may result in lower revenues and 
higher cost of credit. 

Transition risks may arise from changes in regulations or 

market preferences toward a low-carbon economy, which in 
turn could have negative impacts on asset values, results of 
operations or the reputations of Citi and its customers and 
clients. For example, Citi’s corporate credit exposures include 
oil and gas, power and other industries that may experience 
reduced demand for carbon-intensive products due to the 
transition to a low-carbon economy. Moreover, U.S. and non-
U.S. banking regulators and others are increasingly focusing 
on the issue of climate risk at financial institutions, both 
directly and with respect to their clients. As an example, on 
December 16, 2021, the OCC requested feedback on draft 
principles designed to support the identification and 
management of climate-related financial risks at institutions 
with more than $100 billion in total consolidated assets. 

Even as regulators begin to mandate additional disclosure 

of climate-related information by companies across sectors, 
there may continue to be a lack of information for more robust 
climate-related risk analyses. Third party exposures to climate-
related risks and other data generally are limited in availability 
and variable in quality. Modeling capabilities to analyze 
climate-related risks and interconnections are improving but 

remain incomplete. Legislative or regulatory uncertainties and 
changes regarding climate-related risk management and 
disclosures are likely to result in higher regulatory, 
compliance, credit, reputational and other risks and costs (for 
additional information, see the ongoing regulatory and 
legislative uncertainties and changes risk factor above). In 
addition, Citi could face increased regulatory, reputational and 
legal scrutiny as a result of its climate risk, sustainability and 
other ESG related commitments.

For information on Citi’s climate and other sustainability 
initiatives, see “Sustainability and Other ESG Matters” below. 
For additional information on Citi’s management of climate 
risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Climate 
Risk” below.

The Transition Away from and Discontinuance of the 
London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and Any Other 
Interest Rate Benchmark Could Have Adverse Consequences 
for Market Participants, Including Citi.
For decades, LIBOR and other rates or indices deemed to be 
benchmarks have been widely used across financial products 
and markets globally. These benchmarks have been the subject 
of ongoing national and international regulatory scrutiny and 
reform, resulting in regulators generally expecting or requiring 
banks, including Citi, to cease entering into new contracts that 
reference USD LIBOR as a benchmark by December 31, 
2021. The LIBOR administrator ceased publication of non-
USD LIBOR and one-week and two-month USD LIBOR on a 
representative basis on December 31, 2021, with plans to 
cease publication of all other USD LIBOR tenors on June 30, 
2023. As a result, Citi ceased entering into new contracts 
referencing USD LIBOR as of January 1, 2022, other than for 
limited purposes as permitted by regulatory guidance. 
LIBOR and other benchmarks have been used in a 
substantial number of Citi’s outstanding securities and 
products, including, among others, derivatives, corporate 
loans, commercial and residential mortgages, credit cards, 
securitized products and other structured securities. Despite 
ongoing actions to prepare for the transition away from 
LIBOR (see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—LIBOR 
Transition Risk” below), market participants, including Citi, 
may not be adequately prepared for uncertainties associated 
with these benchmarks’ discontinuance or, as necessary, be 
able to successfully modify their outstanding contracts or 
products that reference these benchmarks. For example, the 
transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR or any 
other benchmark rate presents various uncertainties and 
operational, legal, reputational or compliance, financial and 
other risks and challenges to holders of these contracts and 
products, as well as financial markets and institutions, 
including Citi. These include, among others, the pricing, 
liquidity, observability, value of, return on and market for 
financial instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR or 
any other benchmark rate.

While Citi has adopted alternative reference rates for new 

contracts to replace these outgoing benchmarks, in some 
instances, it is possible that the characteristics of these new 
rates may not be sufficiently similar to, or produce the 
economic equivalent of, the benchmark rates that they are 
intended to replace. Alternative reference rates, such as the 

58

Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), are calculated 
using components different from those used in the calculation 
of LIBOR and may fluctuate differently than, and not be 
representative of, LIBOR. In order to compensate for these 
differences, certain of Citi’s financial instruments and 
commercial agreements allow for a benchmark replacement 
adjustment. However, there can be no assurance that any 
benchmark replacement adjustment will be sufficient to 
produce the economic equivalent of LIBOR, either at the 
benchmark replacement date or over the life of such 
instruments and agreements. 

Further, investors, counterparties and other market 
participants may not consider the new alternative rates to be a 
suitable substitute or successor for all of the purposes for 
which these benchmarks have historically been used 
(including, without limitation, as a representation of the 
unsecured short-term funding costs of banks), which may, in 
turn, reduce their market acceptance. Any failure of the 
alternative rates to gain broad market acceptance could 
adversely affect market demand for Citi’s products or 
securities linked to such alternative rates and thus market 
prices of such instruments. As part of its transition, Citi is 
relying or has relied on guidance provided by the accounting 
standard setters related to the transition away from LIBOR. In 
the event that such guidance is insufficient or otherwise unable 
to be implemented as intended, LIBOR transition could
disrupt Citi’s hedge accounting relationships and/or lead
to increased costs in connection with determining whether 
contract amendments result in a modification or an 
extinguishment from an accounting perspective. Changes in 
observability of the alternative reference rates could impact 
the fair value hierarchy classification of financial instruments 
and contracts. 

Moreover, the LIBOR transition presents challenges 

related to contractual mechanics of existing financial 
instruments and contracts that reference such benchmarks that 
mature after discontinuance of the relevant benchmark. 
Certain of these legacy instruments and contracts do not 
provide for fallbacks to alternative reference rates, which 
makes it unclear what the applicable future replacement 
benchmark rates and associated payments might be after the 
current benchmark’s cessation. Citi may not be able to amend 
certain instruments and contracts due to an inability to obtain 
sufficient levels of consent from counterparties or security 
holders. Although this will depend on the precise contractual 
terms of the instrument, such consent requirements are often 
conditions of securities, such as floating rate notes. 

Even if the instruments and contracts provide for a 
transition to an alternative reference rate, the new rate may, 
particularly in times of financial stress, significantly differ 
from the prior rates. As a result, Citi may need to consider 
proactively addressing any contractual uncertainties or rate 
differences in such instruments and contracts, which would 
likely be both time consuming and costly, and may not 
ultimately be successful. While statutory solutions have been 
enacted in certain jurisdictions to address these contractual 
concerns (for example, the State of New York and the EU), 
the availability and effectiveness of these statutory 
mechanisms to cover all impacted financial instruments and 
products to which Citi is a party is uncertain.

In addition, the transition away from and discontinuance 
of LIBOR and other benchmark rates have subjected financial 
institutions, including Citi, to heightened scrutiny from 
regulators. Failure to successfully transition away from 
LIBOR and other benchmark rates could result in adverse 
regulatory actions, disputes, including potential litigation 
involving holders of outstanding products and contracts that 
reference LIBOR, and other benchmark rates and reputational 
harm to Citi. Citi may also need to further invest in and 
develop internal systems and infrastructure to transition to 
alternative benchmark rates to manage its businesses and 
support its clients.

59

SUSTAINABILITY AND OTHER ESG 
MATTERS

Introduction
Citi has progressively developed its understanding of 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues for more 
than 20 years and has a demonstrated record of ESG progress, 
including participating in the creation and adoption of  ESG-
related principles and standards. This section summarizes 
some of Citi’s key ESG initiatives, including its Sustainable 
Progress Strategy and net zero and Action for Racial Equity 
commitments. 

In January 2022, Citi published its 2021 Task Force on 

Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report to 
provide its stakeholders with information on Citi’s continued 
progress to address climate risk and to fulfill its commitment 
to publish an initial net zero plan within one year of 
announcing the net zero commitment. This represents Citi’s 
fourth TCFD Report.

For information regarding Citi’s management of climate 

risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Climate 
Risk” below. 

ESG and Climate-Related Governance

ESG Governance
Citi’s Board of Directors (Board) provides oversight of Citi’s 
management activities to ensure responsible business practices 
(for additional information, see “Managing Global Risk—Risk 
Governance” below). For example, the Nomination, 
Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board 
oversees many of Citi’s ESG activities, including reviewing 
Citi’s policies and programs for environmental and social 
sustainability, climate change, human rights, diversity and 
other ESG issues, as well as advising on engagement with 
external stakeholders.

The Risk Management Committee of the Board provides 

oversight of Citi’s Independent Risk Management function 
and reviews Citi’s risk policies and frameworks, including 
receiving climate risk-related updates. 

In 2021, Citi formed a Global ESG Council consisting of 

senior members of its management in order to provide 
enhanced oversight of Citi’s ESG goals and activities. In 
addition, a number of teams and senior managers contribute to 
the oversight of different areas such as sustainability; 
community investing; talent and diversity; ethics and business 
practices; and remuneration. 

Climate Change Governance
Citi’s oversight of climate risk has continued to evolve with its 
expanding climate commitments. In 2021, Citi established its 
ESG Council, expanded its Climate Risk team and enhanced 
its climate risk and net zero-related governance through 
creation of a Net Zero Task Force. The Task Force, led by 
Citi’s Chief Sustainability Officer and including leaders from 
various business units, was established to support the 
development and launch of Citi’s net zero plan.

Key ESG Initiatives

Sustainable Progress Strategy
Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy is summarized in its 
Environmental and Social Policy Framework. The three pillars 
of the strategy each have climate-related elements and serve as 
the foundation for Citi’s climate commitments. 

•

•

•

The first pillar, “Low-Carbon Transition,” focuses on 
financing and facilitating low-carbon solutions and 
supporting Citi’s clients in their decarbonization and 
transition strategies. 
The second pillar, “Climate Risk,” focuses on Citi’s 
efforts to measure, manage and reduce the climate risk 
and impact of its client portfolio. Areas of activity 
include, portfolio analysis and stakeholder engagement as 
well as enhancing TCFD implementation and disclosure. 
The third pillar, “Sustainable Operations,” focuses on 
Citi’s efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of its 
facilities and strengthen its sustainability culture. This 
includes minimizing the impact of its global operations 
through operational footprint goals and further integrates 
sustainable practices across all countries in which Citi 
operates.

Net Zero Emissions by 2050
In March 2021, Citi announced its commitment to achieving 
net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with its 
financing by 2050, and net zero GHG emissions for its 
operations by 2030; both are significant targets given the size 
and breadth of Citi’s lending portfolios and businesses. Citi 
made this commitment as part of its ongoing work to reduce 
its climate impact and help address the challenges that climate 
change poses to the global economy and broader society. 
Citi’s net zero commitment demonstrates how identifying, 
assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 
remains a top business priority for Citi.

While many financial institutions, including Citi, face 
increasing public pressure to divest from carbon-intensive 
sectors, Citi believes it has an important role to play in 
advising and financing the transition to net zero, and it plans to 
work closely with clients in this effort. Citi recognizes that 
large-scale, rapid divestment could result in an abrupt and 
disorderly transition to a low-carbon economy, creating both 
economic and social upheaval on a global scale. Citi believes 
that an orderly, responsible and equitable transition, which 
accounts for the immediate economic needs of communities, 
workers, environmental justice and broader economic 
development concerns, is essential for the retention of political 
and social support to move to a low-carbon economy.

Citi’s 2021 TCFD Report discusses its initial 2050 net 
zero plan, including 2030 emissions targets for its Energy and 
Power loan portfolios that were developed in line with the Net 
Zero Banking Alliance Guidelines for Climate Target Setting 
for Banks. Citi’s net zero plan incorporates a twofold 
approach: (i) assessment of climate-related factors affecting its 
clients, and (ii) engagement to understand their transition 
opportunities.

60

Citi’s net zero approach includes the following areas of 

activity:

•

•

•

•

•

Client Transition Assessment, Advisory and Finance: 
Seek to understand clients’ GHG emissions and work 
with them to develop their transition plans and advise on 
capacity building
Clean Tech Finance: Support clients and expedite the 
commercialization and adoption of climate technology 
globally through transition and environmental finance as 
well as public-private partnerships
Public Policy Engagement: Support enabling public 
policy and regulation in the U.S. and other countries, 
including through trade associations and other industry 
groups
Risk Management: Assess climate risk exposure across 
Citi’s lending portfolios and review client carbon 
reduction progress, with ongoing review and refining of 
Citi’s ESRM Policy as needed
Portfolio Management: Active portfolio management to 
align with net zero targets, including considerations of 
transition measures taken by clients

The 2050 net zero commitment includes the following 
framework, delineating the key areas required to achieve its 
commitment:

•

•

•

•

•

Calculate Emissions: Calculate baseline financed 
emissions for each carbon-intensive sector
Transition Pathway: Identify the appropriate climate 
scenario transition pathway
Target Setting: Establish emissions reduction targets for 
2030 and beyond
Implementation Strategy: Engage with and assess clients 
to determine transition opportunities
External Engagement: Solicit feedback from clients, 
investors and other stakeholders, as the work continues to 
evolve and the parties collectively define net zero for the 
banking sector

In 2021, Citi continued to expand its participation in the 

financial industry’s net zero leadership initiatives. Citi is a 
member of key industry initiatives that enhance its 
understanding of climate-related issues, improve its access to 
data and promote efficient communication and coordination 
across various climate efforts. These initiatives include the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, the Net Zero 
Banking Alliance and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net 
Zero.

Action for Racial Equity
Effectively responding to the needs of communities of color in 
the U.S. represents a strategic imperative for the private sector. 
A wide range of data and studies have found that many major 
gaps in economic opportunity, education, income, housing and 
wealth run along racial lines, particularly between Black and 
white households. These gaps have not only had implications 
for Black Americans and other people of color but the broader 
economy as well. 

Accordingly, in September 2020, Citi and the Citi 
Foundation announced Action for Racial Equity to help 
provide greater access to banking and credit in communities of 
color, increase investment in Black-owned businesses, expand 
affordable housing and homeownership among Black 
Americans and advance anti-racist practices within Citi and 
across the financial services industry. As part of Action for 
Racial Equity, Citi and the Citi Foundation have invested more 
than $1 billion in strategic initiatives to help close the racial 
wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U.S. Action 
for Racial Equity builds on Citi’s longstanding focus on 
advancing financial inclusion and economic opportunity for 
communities of color in the U.S. and accelerates its efforts in a 
time of increased calls for racial equity and shifting population 
demographics in a changing economy. 

In line with Citi’s continued commitment to expand access to  
banking products and services that can help advance economic 
progress—especially for underbanked and unbanked 
communities—on February 24, 2022, Citi announced plans to 
eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees and overdraft 
protection fees by mid 2022. In addition to eliminating these 
fees, Citi will continue to offer a robust suite of free overdraft 
protection services for its consumers. See Note 5 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for details of Citi’s 
Commissions and fees revenues.

Additional Information
For additional information on Citi’s environmental and social 
policies and priorities, see Citi’s website at 
www.citigroup.com. Click on “About Us” and then 
“Environmental, Social and Governance.” For information on 
Citi’s ESG and Sustainability (including climate change) 
governance, see Citi’s 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement 
available at www.citigroup.com. Click on “Investors” and then 
“Annual Reports & Proxy Statements.” 

The 2021 TCFD Report and any other ESG-related 
reports and information included elsewhere on Citi’s investor 
relations website are not incorporated by reference into, and 
do not form any part of this 2021 Annual Report on Form 
10-K.

61

