MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Third Quarter of 2022—Results Demonstrated Continued 
Progress Toward Achieving Priorities
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, 
during the third quarter of 2022:

•

•

•

•

•

•

Citi’s revenues increased 6% versus the prior-year period, 
primarily driven by a gain on sale of Citi’s Philippines 
consumer business versus a loss on sale of Citi’s Australia 
consumer business in the prior-year period. Excluding 
Asia Consumer divestiture-related impacts in both the 
current and prior-year periods (see “Third Quarter of 2022 
Results Summary” below), revenues decreased 1%, as 
higher net interest income was more than offset by lower 
non-interest revenues.
Citi’s expenses increased 8% versus the prior-year period, 
driven by continued investments in Citi’s transformation, 
including risk, controls, data and finance programs (with 
approximately 25% of these investments related to 
technology); business-led investments and volume-related 
expenses; other risk and control investments; and 
inflation, partially offset by productivity savings and the 
impact of foreign exchange translation.
Citi’s cost of credit was $1.4 billion, reflecting a net build 
in the allowance for credit losses (ACL) for loans and 
unfunded commitments of $0.4 billion, primarily due to 
consumer loan growth and a deterioration in 
macroeconomic forecasts primarily impacting the 
corporate portfolio, compared to a net ACL release of 
$1.2 billion in the prior-year period.
Citi returned $1.0 billion to common shareholders in the 
form of dividends.
Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio 
increased to 12.3% as of September 30, 2022, compared 
to 11.7% as of September 30, 2021 (for additional 
information, see “Capital Resources” below). Citi’s 
required regulatory CET1 Capital ratio is 11.5% as of 
October 1, 2022 and will be 12% as of January 1, 2023, 
both under the Standardized Approach. Due to the 
increases in regulatory capital requirements, as well as 
macroeconomic uncertainty, Citi has continued to pause 
common share repurchases as it continues to build capital. 
Citi continued to make progress on its consumer banking 
business divestitures in the current quarter, including 
completing the sale of its Philippines consumer business, 
which resulted in a regulatory capital benefit of 
approximately $0.7 billion, and working toward closing 
the other five previously signed sale transactions and the 
wind-downs of Korea and Russia (for information on 
Citi’s wind-down in Russia, see “Update Regarding Citi’s 
Operations in Russia” below). As previously announced, 
Citi completed the sales of its Thailand and Malaysia 
consumer businesses on November 1, 2022, which 
together are expected to result in a regulatory capital 
benefit of approximately $1 billion. 

Third Quarter of 2022 Results Summary

Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $3.5 billion, or $1.63 per 
share, compared to net income of $4.6 billion, or $2.15 per 
share in the prior-year period. The decrease in net income was 
primarily driven by higher cost of credit resulting from loan 
growth in Personal Banking and Wealth Management 
(PBWM) and higher operating expenses, partially offset by the 
higher revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 20.0% in 
the current quarter versus 20.4% in the prior-year period (for 
additional information, see “Income Taxes” below). Earnings 
per share (EPS) decreased 24%, reflecting the decrease in net 
income, partially offset by a 4% decline in average diluted 
shares outstanding.

Results for the current quarter included Legacy 
Franchises Asia Consumer divestiture-related impacts of 
approximately $520 million in earnings before taxes 
(approximately $256 million after-tax), primarily driven by the 
Philippines and other Asia consumer exits, which primarily 
consisted of (i) an approximate $616 million Philippines gain 
on sale recorded in Other revenue and (ii) an approximate 
$107 million of aggregate divestiture-related costs, which, 
collectively, had a $0.13 positive impact on EPS. Excluding 
these divestiture-related impacts, EPS was $1.50 in the current 
quarter. Third quarter of 2021 results included Asia Consumer 
divestiture-related impacts of $(680) million (approximately 
$(580) million after-tax) within Legacy Franchises, primarily 
driven by a loss on sale of the Australia consumer business. 
(As used throughout this Form 10-Q, Citi’s results of 
operations and financial condition excluding the impact of the 
Philippines gain on sale and other Asia Consumer divestiture-
related impacts are non-GAAP financial measures.) 

Citigroup revenues of $18.5 billion increased 6% versus 

the prior-year period. Excluding the gain on sale of the 
Philippines consumer business in the quarter of approximately 
$0.6 billion and the loss on sale of the Australia consumer 
business in the prior-year period of approximately $0.7 billion, 
revenues were down 1%, as the impact of higher interest rates 
across businesses and strong loan growth in PBWM were more 
than offset by declines in Investment banking and Markets in 
Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and Asia investment product 
revenues in Global Wealth Management (Global Wealth).

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were $646 billion, down 
3% versus the prior-year period, largely driven by the impact 
of foreign exchange translation and lower balances in Legacy 
Franchises. The decline in Legacy Franchises primarily 
reflected the reclassification of loans to Other assets to reflect 
held-for-sale (HFS) accounting, as a result of the signing of 
sale agreements for consumer franchises in Asia and EMEA, 
as well as the impact of the Korea wind-down. 

Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits were $1.3 trillion, 

down 3% versus the prior-year period, largely driven by 
declines in Legacy Franchises and the impact of foreign 

3

exchange translation, partially offset by the issuance of 
institutional certificates of deposit, reflected in Corporate/
Other, as Citigroup continued to diversify its funding profile.

Expenses
Citigroup’s operating expenses of $12.7 billion increased 8% 
versus the prior-year period, largely driven by continued 
investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments 
and volume-related expenses, other risk and control 
investments and inflation, partially offset by productivity 
savings and the benefit of foreign exchange translation. As 
discussed above, reported expenses included approximately 
$107 million of divestiture-related costs. Excluding these 
divestiture-related costs, expenses increased 7% versus the 
prior-year period, largely driven by the following:

•

•

•

•

Approximately 2% was driven by transformation 
investments, with about two-thirds related to the risk, 
controls, data and finance programs (approximately 25% 
of the program investments were related to technology). 
Approximately 1% was driven by business-led 
investments as Citi continues to hire commercial and 
investment bankers as well as client advisers in wealth, 
and continues to invest in the client experience as well as 
front-office platforms and onboarding. 
Approximately 1% was driven by higher volume-related 
expenses across both PBWM and ICG.
Approximately 3% was driven by other risk and control 
investments and inflation, partially offset by productivity 
savings and the impact of foreign exchange translation.

As previously disclosed, Citi expects to continue to incur 

higher expenses during the remainder of 2022, compared to 
the prior-year period, reflecting ongoing transformation-
related, business-led and other risk and control investments 
and inflation.

Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and 
claims was a cost of $1.4 billion, compared to a benefit of $0.2 
billion in the prior-year period. The higher cost of credit was 
driven by the net build in the allowance for credit losses 
(ACL) for loans and unfunded commitments of $0.4 billion, 
compared to a net ACL release of $1.2 billion in the prior-year 
period, partially offset by lower net credit losses. The net ACL 
build was primarily due to cards loan growth in PBWM and a 
deterioration in macroeconomic forecasts primarily impacting 
the corporate portfolio. For additional information on Citi’s 
ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant 
Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below.
Net credit losses of $0.9 billion decreased 8% versus the 
prior-year period. Consumer net credit losses decreased 4% to 
$881 million, primarily driven by Legacy Franchises (down 
44% to $158 million), partially offset by an increase in 
PBWM. The lower net credit losses in Legacy Franchises 
primarily reflected improved delinquencies and the 
reclassification of loans to reflect HFS accounting as a result 
of the signing of sale agreements for consumer franchises in 
Asia and EMEA. The increase in net credit losses in PBWM 
was driven by Retail services (up 32% to $315 million), 

4

reflecting ongoing normalization from historically low levels, 
partially offset by lower net credit losses in Branded cards 
(down 3% to $348 million). Corporate net credit losses 
decreased to $6 million from $39 million in the prior-year 
period. 

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and 

corporate credit costs, see each respective business’s results of 
operations and “Credit Risk” below.

Capital
Citigroup’s CET1 Capital ratio was 12.3% as of September 
30, 2022, compared to 11.7% as of September 30, 2021, based 
on the Basel III Standardized Approach for determining risk-
weighted assets (RWA). The increase was primarily driven by 
net income, the impacts related to the closing of the Australia 
and Philippines consumer business sales, and business actions, 
including a reduction in RWA, partially offset by interest rate 
impacts on Citigroup’s investment portfolio and the return of 
capital to common shareholders. The increase in Citi’s CET1 
Capital ratio was also partially offset by the impact of 
adopting the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit 
Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022. 

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of 
September 30, 2022 was 5.7%, compared to 5.8% as of 
September 30, 2021. The decrease was driven by lower Tier 1 
Capital, partially offset by a decrease in Total Leverage 
Exposure. For additional information on Citi’s capital ratios 
and related components, see “Capital Resources” below.

Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $2.2 billion decreased 30% versus the 
prior-year period, largely driven by lower revenues, higher 
expenses and modestly higher cost of credit. ICG operating 
expenses of $6.5 billion increased 10%, driven by continued 
investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments 
and volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity 
savings and foreign exchange translation.

ICG revenues of $9.5 billion decreased 5% (including 
losses on loan hedges) versus the prior-year period, as strong 
revenue growth in Services was more than offset by lower 
revenues across Markets and Banking. Results included losses 
on loan hedges of $56 million, compared to $46 million in the 
prior-year period.

Services revenues of $4.2 billion increased 33% versus 

the prior-year period. Treasury and trade solutions (TTS) 
revenues of $3.2 billion increased 40%, driven by 61% growth 
in net interest income and 8% growth in non-interest revenue. 
The strong performance in TTS was driven by business 
actions, including balance sheet optimization, deepening of 
relationships with existing clients and an increase in new 
clients across segments, as well as the benefit of higher 
interest rates. Securities services revenues of $968 million 
increased 15%, as net interest income increased 73%, driven 
by higher interest rates across currencies, partially offset by a 
6% decrease in non-interest revenue due to the impact of 
lower market valuations.

Markets revenues of $4.1 billion were down 7% versus 
the prior-year period, largely driven by lower client activity 
levels in Equity markets and spread products and business 
actions, including a reduction in RWA. Fixed income markets 

revenues of $3.1 billion increased 1%, as strength in rates and 
currencies was largely offset by continued headwinds in 
spread products. Equity markets revenues of $1.0 billion were 
down 25%, largely reflecting reduced client activity in equity 
derivatives relative to an unusually strong quarter in the prior-
year period.

Banking revenues of $1.2 billion decreased 50% versus 
the prior-year period, including the losses on loan hedges in 
the current quarter and the prior-year period. Excluding the 
losses on loan hedges, Banking revenues of $1.3 billion 
decreased 49%, driven by lower revenues in both Investment 
banking and Corporate lending. Investment banking revenues 
of $631 million decreased 64%, as heightened macroeconomic 
uncertainty and market volatility continued to impact client 
activity. Excluding losses on loan hedges, Corporate lending 
revenues decreased 11%, driven by lower volumes and higher 
hedging costs. For additional information on the results of 
operations of ICG for the third quarter of 2022, see 
“Institutional Clients Group” below.

Personal Banking and Wealth Management
PBWM net income of $792 million decreased 58% versus the 
prior-year period, largely driven by a net ACL release in the 
prior-year period, versus a net ACL build in the current 
quarter. PBWM operating expenses of $4.1 billion increased 
13%, primarily driven by continued investments in Citi’s 
transformation, other risk and control initiatives, business-led 
investments and volume-related expenses, partially offset by 
productivity savings.

PBWM revenues of $6.2 billion increased 6% versus the 

prior-year period, as net interest income growth, driven by 
strong loan growth across Branded cards and Retail services 
and higher interest rates, was partially offset by a decline in 
non-interest revenue, driven by lower investment fee revenues 
in Global Wealth and higher partner payments in Retail 
services.

U.S. Personal Banking revenues of $4.3 billion increased 
10% versus the prior-year period. Branded cards revenues of 
$2.3 billion increased 10%, driven by the higher net interest 
income. In Branded cards, new account acquisitions increased 
10%, card spend volumes increased 14% and average loans 
increased 12%. Retail services revenues of $1.4 billion 
increased 12%, driven by the higher net interest income, 
partially offset by the higher partner payments. Retail banking 
revenues of $642 million increased 2%, primarily driven by 
the higher interest rates and modest deposit growth.

Global Wealth revenues of $1.9 billion decreased 2% 
versus the prior-year period, as investment fee headwinds, 
particularly in Asia, more than offset net interest income 
growth from higher interest rates. For additional information 
on the results of operations of PBWM for the third quarter of 
2022, see “Personal Banking and Wealth Management” 
below.

Legacy Franchises
Legacy Franchises net income was $316 million, compared to 
a net loss of $200 million in the prior-year period, primarily 
reflecting the Philippines gain on sale in the quarter and the 
Australia loss on sale in the prior-year period. Legacy 
Franchises expenses of $1.8 billion increased 6%, driven by 
divestiture-related costs.

Legacy Franchises revenues of $2.6 billion increased 
66% versus the prior-year period, primarily driven by the 
Philippines gain on sale versus the Australia loss on sale in the 
prior-year period, as well as the impacts of the Korea wind-
down and the loss of revenues from the exits of the Australia 
and Philippines consumer businesses. For additional 
information on the results of operations of Legacy Franchises 
for the third quarter of 2022, see “Legacy Franchises” below.

Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net income was $209 million, compared to a 
net loss of $143 million in the prior-year period, largely 
reflecting higher revenues and lower expenses. Corporate/
Other operating expenses of $286 million decreased 35%. 

Corporate/Other revenues of $299 million increased from 

$68 million in the prior-year period, largely driven by higher 
net revenue from the investment portfolio due to higher 
interest rates, partially offset by mark-to-market losses, 
primarily related to retained interchange litigation risk 
associated with shares of Visa B common stock that Citi 
previously sold. For additional information on the results of 
operations of Corporate/Other for the third quarter of 2022, 
see “Corporate/Other” below.

Update Regarding Citi’s Operations in Russia
As part of Citi’s previously announced intent to reduce its 
operations in and exposure to Russia, Citi disclosed its 
decision to wind down its Russia consumer and local 
commercial banking businesses, including the pursuit of 
portfolio sales. On October 28, 2022, Citi entered into an 
agreement to sell a consumer loan portfolio, including a 
referral agreement to transfer a portfolio of credit card loans. 
Additionally, Citi disclosed that it will be ending nearly all of 
the institutional banking services it offers in Russia by the end 
of the first quarter of 2023. Going forward, Citi’s only 
operations in Russia will be those necessary to fulfill its 
remaining legal and regulatory obligations. For additional 
information about Citi’s operations and exposure in Russia, 
see “Institutional Clients Group,” “Legacy Franchises” and 
“Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country Risk—
Russia” below.

Macroeconomic and Other Risks and Uncertainties
Various geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges and 
uncertainties continue to adversely impact economic 
conditions in the U.S. and globally. The U.S. and other 
countries have continued to experience significantly elevated 
levels of inflation, resulting in central banks implementing a 
series of interest rate increases, with additional increases 
expected in the near term. In addition to the humanitarian 
crisis, the war in Ukraine has caused supply shocks in energy 
and food markets. Disruptions in global supply chains have 
continued and the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. 

5

An economic rebound in China faces constraints given the 
potential for future pandemic-related lockdowns, the amount 
of leverage in its economy and stress in the property sector. 
All of these factors have caused declines in financial markets, 
negatively impacted global economic growth rates, 
contributed to sharply lower consumer confidence and further 
increased the risk of recession in Europe, the U.S. and other 
countries. These and other factors could adversely affect Citi’s 
customers, clients, businesses, funding costs and results during 
the remainder of 2022.

For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks 

that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of 
operations, capital and other financial condition during the 
remainder of 2022, see each respective business’s results of 
operations, “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country 
Risk—Russia” and “Forward-Looking Statements” below and 
“Risk Factors” and “Managing Global Risk” in Citi’s 2021 
Form 10-K.

CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE

As previously disclosed, in 2021, Citi submitted its plans to 
address the consent orders to both the Federal Reserve Board 
and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). Citi 
continues to work constructively with the regulators, and will 
continue to reflect their feedback by submitting updates to its 
project plans and on execution progress for the consent orders. 
For additional information about the consent orders, see 
“Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” and “Risk Factors—
Compliance Risks” in Citi’s 2021 Form 10-K.

6

