MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Second Quarter of 2022—Strong Results and Continued 
Progress Toward Achieving Priorities
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, 
during the second quarter of 2022:

•

•

•

•

•

Citi’s revenues increased 11% versus the prior-year 
period, reflecting growth in net interest income—
primarily driven by benefits from higher interest rates and 
strong volumes in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and 
Personal Banking and Wealth Management (PBWM), and 
growth in non-interest revenue—driven by Fixed income 
markets and Services in ICG, partially offset by lower 
non-interest revenue in ICG’s Investment banking 
business and PBWM. 
Citi’s expenses increased 8%, driven by continued 
investments in its transformation, including enhancing its 
risk and control environment and modernizing its data and 
technology infrastructure; and business-led investments, 
including hiring front office employees and enhancing 
product capabilities and platforms that improve the digital 
client experience and add scalability.
Citi returned a total of $1.3 billion to common 
shareholders in the form of dividends and repurchases. 
Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio 
increased to 11.9% as of June 30, 2022, compared to 
11.8% as of June 30, 2021. As previously disclosed, on 
October 1, 2022, Citi’s effective minimum CET1 Capital 
ratio will increase to 11.5% from 10.5% under the 
Standardized Approach due to the increase in the Stress 
Capital Buffer (SCB) requirement to 4.0% from 3.0%. In 
addition, on January 1, 2023, Citi’s effective minimum 
CET1 Capital requirement will increase to 12% from 
11.5% under the Standardized Approach, as the GSIB 
surcharge increases to 3.5% from 3.0% (for additional 
information, see “Capital Resources” below). Due to the 
increases, Citi announced it is pausing common share 
repurchases as it continues to build capital.
Citi continued to make progress on its divestitures in the 
current quarter, including completing the sale of its 
Australia consumer business, which resulted in a 
regulatory capital benefit of approximately $1.4 billion, 
and making progress on closing the other eight previously 
signed consumer business transactions and the wind-down 
of the Korea consumer business. As previously 
announced, Citi also completed the sale of its Philippines 
consumer business on August 1, 2022, resulting in a 
regulatory capital benefit of approximately $700 million. 

Various geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges and 

uncertainties continue to adversely impact economic 
conditions in the U.S. and globally. The U.S. and other 
countries have experienced significantly elevated levels of 
inflation, resulting in central banks implementing a series of 
interest rates increases, with additional increases expected in 

3

the near term. In addition to the humanitarian crisis, the war in 
Ukraine has caused supply shocks in energy and food markets. 
Disruptions in global supply chains have continued and the 
COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. An economic 
rebound in China faces constraints given the potential for 
future pandemic-related lockdowns, the amount of leverage in 
its economy and stress in the property sector. All of these 
factors have caused a decline in financial markets, negatively 
impacted economic growth rates, contributed to sharply lower 
consumer confidence and increased the overall risk of 
recession in Europe, the U.S. and other countries. These and 
other factors could adversely affect Citi’s customers, clients, 
businesses, funding costs and results during the remainder of 
2022. 

For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks 

that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of 
operations, capital and other financial condition during the 
remainder of 2022, see each respective business’s results of 
operations, “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks—Country 
Risk—Russia” and “Forward-Looking Statements” below and 
“Risk Factors” and “Managing Global Risk” in Citi’s 2021 
Form 10-K.

Second Quarter of 2022 Results Summary

Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $4.5 billion, or $2.19 per 
share, compared to net income of $6.2 billion, or $2.85 per 
share in the prior-year period. The decrease in net income was 
largely driven by higher cost of credit, as well as higher 
expenses, partially offset by the increase in revenues. 
Citigroup’s reported effective tax rate was 19.8%, compared to 
the second quarter of 2021 effective tax rate of 15.7%. The 
lower effective tax rate in the prior-year period reflected a 
$450 million valuation allowance release related to foreign tax 
credit carry-forwards, compared to a significantly lower 
release in the current quarter. These releases were due to 
revised projections of future income (for additional 
information, see “Income Taxes” below). Earnings per share 
decreased 23%, reflecting the decrease in net income, partially 
offset by a 6% decline in average diluted shares outstanding. 
Citigroup revenues of $19.6 billion increased 11%, 
reflecting increased interest rates and volumes in ICG and 
PBWM, primarily from higher client activity in Markets in 
ICG and continued momentum in Services non-interest 
revenue, partially offset by a slowdown in Investment banking 
activity as well as investment fee headwinds in Global Wealth 
Management (Global Wealth) in PBWM.

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were $657 billion, down 
3% from the prior-year period, as growth in ICG and PBWM 
(up 2% and 4%, respectively) was more than offset by lower 
loans in Legacy Franchises. The decline in Legacy Franchises 
primarily reflected the reclassification of loans to Other assets 
to reflect held-for-sale (HFS) accounting as a result of the 
signing of sale agreements for consumer franchises in Asia 
and EMEA. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 1% 

 
to $1.3 trillion, largely driven by growth in Treasury and trade 
solutions (TTS) in ICG and Global Wealth.

Expenses
Citigroup’s operating expenses of $12.4 billion increased 8%, 
driven by continued investments in its transformation, higher 
business-led investments and volume-related expenses, 
partially offset by productivity savings. As previously 
announced, Citi expects to continue to incur higher expenses 
during the remainder of 2022, compared to the prior-year 
period, reflecting ongoing transformation-related and 
business-led investments.

Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and 
claims was a cost of $1.3 billion, compared to a benefit of $1.1 
billion in the prior-year period. The higher cost of credit was 
driven by an allowance for credit losses (ACL) build of 
approximately $400 million (compared to a net release of $2.4 
billion in the prior-year period), partially offset by lower net 
credit losses.

The net ACL build primarily related to increased 
macroeconomic uncertainty, partially offset by a release 
related to a reduction in Russia-related risk in ICG in the 
quarter. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see 
“Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—
Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below.

Net credit losses of $0.9 billion decreased 36%. 

Consumer net credit losses decreased 33% to $827 million, 
largely reflecting improved delinquencies in Legacy 
Franchises and certain PBWM businesses. Specifically, the 
decline reflected lower net credit losses in Legacy Franchises 
(down 66%), primarily reflecting improved delinquencies and 
the reclassification of loans to reflect HFS accounting as a 
result of the signing of sales agreements for consumer 
franchises in Asia and EMEA. The decline was also driven by 
lower net credit losses in both Branded cards (down 30% to 
$329 million) and Retail services (down 11% to $290 million) 
in PBWM, driven by continued strong credit performance 
across portfolios. Corporate net credit losses decreased 70% to 
$23 million, driven by improvements in portfolio credit 
quality.

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and 

corporate credit costs, see each respective business’s results of 
operations and “Credit Risk” below.

Capital
Citigroup’s CET1 Capital ratio was 11.9% as of June 30, 
2022, compared to 11.8% as of June 30, 2021, based on the 
Basel III Standardized Approach for determining risk-
weighted assets. The increase was driven primarily by net 
income, a decrease in risk-weighted assets and the impact 
related to the closing of the Australia consumer banking sale, 
partially offset by interest rate-related adverse net movements 
in the Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) 
component of equity, and the return of capital to common 
shareholders. The increase in Citi’s CET1 Capital ratio was 
also partially offset by the impact of adopting the Standardized 
Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 

4

1, 2022. For additional information on SA-CCR, see “Capital 
Resources” in Citi’s First Quarter of 2022 Form 10-Q.

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of June 30, 
2022 was 5.6%, compared to 5.8% as of June 30, 2021. The 
decrease was driven by the increase in Total Leverage 
Exposure and the decrease in Tier 1 Capital. For additional 
information on Citi’s capital ratios and related components, 
see “Capital Resources” below.

Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $4.0 billion increased 16%, driven by 
higher revenues, partially offset by higher expenses and higher 
cost of credit. ICG operating expenses of $6.4 billion 
increased 10%, driven by continued investments in Citi’s 
transformation, higher business-led investments and volume-
related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings.

ICG revenues of $11.4 billion increased 20% (including 
gains (losses) on loan hedges), driven by growth in Services 
and Markets revenues, partially offset by a decrease in 
Investment banking revenues. Results included a gain on loan 
hedges of $0.5 billion, compared with a loss on loan hedges of 
$37 million in the prior-year period.

Services revenues of $4.0 billion increased 28%. TTS 
revenues of $3.0 billion increased 33%, driven by 42% growth 
in net interest income, as well as 17% growth in non-interest 
revenue, reflecting strength with both mid-size and large 
corporate clients. Securities services revenues of $994 million 
increased 16%, as net interest income grew 41%, driven by 
higher interest rates across currencies, and non-interest 
revenue grew 8%, reflecting elevated levels of corporate 
settlement activity in Issuer services.

Markets revenues of $5.3 billion were up 25%, driven by 

elevated volatility leading to higher client activity. Fixed 
income markets revenues of $4.1 billion increased 31%, 
primarily reflecting strong client engagement in the rates, 
currencies and commodities businesses. Equity markets 
revenues of $1.2 billion were up 8%, driven by strong equity 
derivatives performance, partially offset by less client activity 
in cash, and a net decrease in prime balances, as lower asset 
valuations more than offset new client balances.

Banking revenues of $2.1 billion decreased 4%. 

Excluding the gains (losses) on loan hedges, Banking revenues 
of $1.6 billion decreased 28%. Investment banking revenues 
of $805 million declined 46%, as heightened geopolitical 
uncertainty and the overall macroeconomic backdrop reduced 
capital markets activity and M&A. The decline in Investment 
banking revenues was partially offset by higher revenues in 
Corporate lending. For additional information on the results of 
operations of ICG for the second quarter of 2022, see 
“Institutional Clients Group” below.

Personal Banking and Wealth Management
PBWM net income of $553 million decreased 69%, largely 
driven by higher cost of credit and higher expenses, partially 
offset by higher revenues. PBWM operating expenses of $4.0 
billion increased 12%, driven by continued investments in 
Citi’s transformation, higher business-led investments and 
volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity 
savings.

Corporate/Other revenues of $255 million increased 12%, 

largely driven by higher net revenues from the investment 
portfolio, reflecting higher interest rates. For additional 
information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other 
for the second quarter of 2022, see “Corporate/Other” below.

PBWM revenues of $6.0 billion increased 6%, as net 
interest income growth was partially offset by a decline in 
non-interest revenue, largely driven by higher partner 
payments in Retail services.

U.S. Personal Banking revenues of $4.1 billion increased 

9%. Branded cards revenues of $2.2 billion increased 10%, 
driven by higher interest income on higher loan balances. New 
accounts and card spend volume each increased 18%, while 
average loans increased 11%. Retail services revenues of $1.3 
billion increased 7%, driven by higher interest income on 
higher loan balances, partially offset by the higher partner 
payments. Retail banking revenues of $656 million increased 
6%, largely driven by higher deposit spreads and volumes.

Global Wealth revenues of $1.9 billion were largely 
unchanged, as investment fee headwinds, particularly in Asia, 
were offset by an increase in revenues driven by growth in 
average deposits and average loans. For additional information 
on the results of operations of PBWM for the second quarter of 
2022, see “Personal Banking and Wealth Management” 
below.

Legacy Franchises
Legacy Franchises net loss was $17 million, compared to net 
income of $494 million in the prior-year period, reflecting 
lower revenues, higher expenses and higher cost of credit. 
Legacy Franchises expenses increased 1%, driven by 
impairment of long-lived assets related to the Russia consumer 
banking business (see “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks
—Country Risk—Russia” below) and higher marketing 
expenses in Mexico Consumer/SBMM, partially offset by 
lower expenses related to the Asia Consumer exit markets. 
Legacy Franchises revenues of $1.9 billion decreased 

15%, largely driven by the impacts of the Korea wind-down 
and the closing of the Australia consumer banking sale, as 
well as lower investment activity in Asia Consumer. The 
decline in revenues was also driven by a portion of the release 
of a currency translation adjustment (CTA) loss (net of 
hedges) from AOCI related to the substantial liquidation of a 
legacy U.K. consumer operation (for additional information, 
see Note 2). In addition, another portion of the CTA loss 
release was reported in discontinued operations in Corporate/
Other. For additional information on the results of operations 
of Legacy Franchises for the second quarter of 2022, see 
“Legacy Franchises” below. 

Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net income was $50 million, compared to net 
income of $473 million in the prior-year period, largely 
reflecting lower tax benefits related to certain non-U.S. 
operations and a portion of the release of a CTA loss (net of 
hedges) from AOCI related to the substantial liquidation of a 
legacy U.K. consumer operation, recorded in discontinued 
operations. As discussed above, the other portion of the CTA 
loss was recorded in revenues in Legacy Franchises. The 
decline in net income was partially offset by lower expenses 
and modestly higher revenues. Corporate/Other expenses of 
$160 million decreased 48%, driven by certain settlements and 
the benefit of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for 
reporting purposes (FX translation). 

5

