MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

First Quarter of 2022—Results Demonstrated Continued 
Progress Across the Franchise
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, 
during the first quarter of 2022:

•  Citi’s revenues declined 2% versus the prior-year period, 
as higher net interest income—driven by Services, in 
Institutional Clients Group (ICG), and Personal Banking 
and Wealth Management (PBWM)—was more than offset 
by lower non-interest revenue across businesses. 

•  Citi continued to invest in its risk and control 

environment, modernize its systems and technology 
infrastructure and make business-led investments, which 
include attracting front office talent, developing integrated 
solutions and enhancing product capabilities that improve 
the digital client experience and add scalability.
•  Citi had a modest allowance for credit losses (ACL) 

release in the quarter that included a build of 
approximately $1.9 billion related to Citi’s exposures in 
Russia and the impact of the war in Ukraine on the 
broader macroeconomic environment (for additional 
information, see “Cost of Credit” below).

•  Citi had solid year-over-year loan and deposit growth 

across ICG and PBWM, reflecting continued engagement 
across both corporate clients and consumers. 

•  Citi repurchased approximately 50 million common 

shares and returned approximately $4 billion of capital to 
common shareholders in the form of repurchases and 
dividends. 

•  Citi continued to make progress with its refresh strategy, 
including entering into sale agreements for an additional 
seven consumer banking franchises in Asia and EMEA, 
for a total of 9 of 14 exit markets signed and announced, 
with a clear wind-down path for Korea.

Various geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges 
related to, among other things, the war in Ukraine, disruptions 
of global supply chains, inflationary pressures and higher 
interest rates will continue to create uncertainties around 
economic conditions in the U.S. and globally, and 
consequently for Citi’s businesses and future results. For a 
discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks that will or could 
impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial 
condition during the remainder of 2022, see each respective 
business’s results of operations, “Managing Global Risk—
Other Risks—Country Risk—Russia” and “Forward-Looking 
Statements” below and “Risk Factors” and “Managing Global 
Risk” in Citi’s 2021 Form 10-K.

First Quarter of 2022 Results Summary

Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $4.3 billion, or $2.02 per 
share, compared to net income of $7.9 billion, or $3.62 per 
share in the prior-year period. The decrease in net income was 

3

driven by higher cost of credit, higher expenses and lower 
revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 18% versus 23% 
in the prior-year period, reflecting the resolution of certain tax 
audit items. Earnings per share decreased 44%, reflecting the 
decrease in net income, partially offset by a 6% decline in 
shares outstanding.

Citigroup revenues of $19.2 billion decreased 2%, as 
higher net interest income driven by ICG and PBWM was 
more than offset by lower non-interest revenue across 
businesses.

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were $660 billion, down 
1% from the prior-year period, as growth in ICG and PBWM 
(up 6% and 4%, respectively) was more than offset by lower 
loans in Legacy Franchises, primarily reflecting the 
reclassification of loans to Other assets to reflect held-for-sale 
accounting as a result of the signing of sale agreements for 
consumer franchises in Asia and EMEA. Citigroup’s end-of-
period deposits increased 3% to $1.3 trillion, driven by 
increases in both PBWM and ICG. 

Expenses 
Citigroup operating expenses of $13.2 billion increased 15%. 
Citigroup’s expenses included Asia Consumer divestiture-
related costs largely related to a goodwill write-down of 
approximately $535 million (approximately $489 million 
after-tax) due to the re-segmentation and timing of 
divestitures. These Asia Consumer divestiture-related costs 
were recorded in Legacy Franchises. Excluding the Asia 
Consumer divestiture-related costs, operating expenses 
increased 10%, driven by continued investments in Citi’s 
transformation, business-led investments and volume-related 
expenses, partially offset by productivity savings (as used 
throughout this Form 10-Q, Citi’s results of operations and 
financial condition excluding the impact of the Asia Consumer 
divestiture-related costs are non-GAAP financial measures).

Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and 
claims was a cost of $0.8 billion, compared to a benefit of $2.1 
billion in the prior-year period. The higher cost of credit was 
driven by a lower ACL release ($0.1 billion versus $3.9 billion 
in the prior-year period), partially offset by lower net credit 
losses. 

The net ACL release included a $1.9 billion ACL build, 

consisting of approximately $1 billion related to Citi’s 
exposures in Russia and approximately $900 million related to 
the impact of the war in Ukraine on the broader global 
macroeconomic environment. This build was more than offset 
by an ACL release related to a COVID-19 uncertainty reserve, 
primarily in U.S. Personal Banking. For additional information 
on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and 
Significant Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses 
(ACL)” below. 

Net credit losses of $0.9 billion decreased 50%. 

Consumer net credit losses of $841 million decreased 46%, 
primarily reflecting improved delinquencies in both the 

Branded cards and Retail services portfolios in U.S. Personal 
Banking. Corporate net credit losses decreased 83% to $31 
million, from $185 million in the prior-year period, driven by 
improvements in portfolio credit quality.

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and 

corporate credit costs, see each respective business’s results of 
operations and “Credit Risk” below.

Capital
Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio was 
11.4% as of March 31, 2022, based on the Basel III 
Standardized Approach for determining risk-weighted assets, 
compared to 11.6% as of March 31, 2021, based on the Basel 
III Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted 
assets. The decrease primarily reflected the return of capital to 
shareholders and the adverse net movements in the 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) component 
of equity, partially offset by net income. Additionally, the 
change in Citi’s CET1 Capital ratio reflected a change in Citi’s 
binding constraint from the Advanced Approaches to the 
Standardized Approach, inclusive of the impact of adopting 
the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-
CCR) on January 1, 2022. For additional information on SA-
CCR, see “Capital Resources” below. 

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of March 

31, 2022 was 5.6%, compared to 6.9% as of March 31, 2021. 
The decrease was primarily driven by an increase in Total 
Leverage Exposure, reflecting the expiration of temporary 
relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board. For additional 
information on Citi’s capital ratios and related components, 
see “Capital Resources” below. 

Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $2.6 billion decreased 51%, primarily 
driven by higher expenses, higher cost of credit and slightly 
lower revenues. ICG operating expenses increased 13% to 
$6.7 billion, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s 
transformation, business-led investments and volume-related 
expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. 

ICG revenues of $11.2 billion decreased 2%, largely 
driven by Banking, partially offset by an increase in Services 
revenue. 

Services revenues of $3.4 billion increased 15%, 

primarily from TTS revenues of $2.6 billion, which increased 
18%, driven by net interest income on higher deposit balances 
and spreads as well as strong fee growth. Securities services 
revenues of $858 million increased 6%, as net interest income 
grew 17%, driven by higher interest rates across currencies, 
and fee revenues grew 2%, due to higher assets under custody. 
Markets revenues of $5.8 billion were down 2%, versus a 

very strong quarter in the prior-year period. In the current 
quarter, activity levels benefited from client repositioning and 
strong risk management, driven by the Federal Reserve’s 
interest rate increases and overall geopolitical and 
macroeconomic uncertainty. Fixed income markets revenues 
of $4.3 billion decreased 1%, as strong client engagement in 
FX, commodities and rates was offset by less activity in 
spread products. Equity markets revenues of $1.5 billion were 
down 4%, compared to a very strong quarter in the prior-year 

4

period, reflecting strong equity derivatives performance and 
growth in prime finance balances.

Banking revenues of $1.9 billion decreased 23%, 
including the gain (loss) on loan hedges. Excluding the gain 
(loss) on loan hedges, Banking revenues decreased 32% 
versus the prior-year period, as heightened geopolitical 
uncertainty and the overall macroeconomic backdrop reduced 
activity in debt and equity capital markets. Investment banking 
revenues decreased 43% due to lower capital markets activity, 
partially offset by growth in advisory. Corporate lending 
revenues of $689 million decreased 6% (excluding gain (loss) 
on loan hedges), primarily driven by lower average loans. For 
additional information on the results of operations of ICG for 
the first quarter of 2022, see “Institutional Clients Group” 
below.

Personal Banking and Wealth Management
PBWM net income of $1.9 billion decreased 23%, largely 
driven by lower revenues, higher expenses and a lower net 
ACL release. PBWM operating expenses of $3.9 billion 
increased 14%, driven by transformation and business-led 
investments, and higher volume-driven expenses, partially 
offset by productivity savings.

PBWM revenues of $5.9 billion decreased 1%, as higher 

net interest income was more than offset by lower non-interest 
revenue.

U.S. Personal Banking revenues of $4.0 billion decreased 

1%, with lower revenues across Branded cards and Retail 
banking. Branded cards revenues of $2.1 billion decreased 
1%, due to higher payment rates and higher acquisition and 
rewards costs, reflecting increases in new accounts and 
customer engagement. Retail services revenues of $1.3 billion 
were largely unchanged, as higher net interest income was 
offset by higher partner payments, driven by lower net credit 
losses. Retail banking revenues of $595 million decreased 6%, 
largely driven by lower mortgage originations.

Global Wealth Management revenues of $1.9 billion 

decreased 1%, primarily due to lower client activity in 
investments, particularly in Asia.

For additional information on the results of operations of 

PBWM for the first quarter of 2022, see “Personal Banking 
and Wealth Management” below.

Legacy Franchises
Legacy Franchises net loss was $383 million, compared to net 
income of $323 million in the prior-year period, reflecting 
lower revenues, higher expenses and higher cost of credit. 
Operating expenses of $2.3 billion increased 31%, reflecting 
the Asia Consumer divestiture-related costs.

Legacy Franchises revenues of $1.9 billion decreased 
14%, largely resulting from the Korea wind-down, as well as 
muted investment activity in Asia. For additional information 
on the results of operations of Legacy Franchises for the first 
quarter of 2022, see “Legacy Franchises” below.

Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net income was $189 million, compared to a 
net loss of $194 million in the prior-year period, largely driven 
by higher revenues and lower expenses. Operating expenses of 

$260 million decreased 15%, largely due to lower consulting 
costs.

Corporate/Other revenues of $190 million increased 

significantly, largely driven by higher revenue from the 
investment portfolio. For additional information on the results 
of operations of Corporate/Other for the first quarter of 2022, 
see “Corporate/Other” below.

5

