Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2022_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tesla Countersues JPMorgan in Fight Over Warrant Value .................................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last ..................................................................................... 6
          Outlook 2022 (A Special Report) --- The Pros Are Now Following The 'Dumb Money': After amateur day traders
          upended markets, it seems the... ............................................................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
          Pay on Wall Street Will Surge After Year of Record Profit ..................................................................................... 10
          Tech Shares Skid, but Dow Sets High ................................................................................................................... 12
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TeslaCountersuesJPMorganinFightOverWarrantValue                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Tesla Countersues JPMorgan in Fight Over Warrant Value                  
          By David Benoit                                                         
          498 words                                                               
          25 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Tesla Inc. countersued JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Monday, intensifying a dispute over the payout for a bond
          sale the bank helped arrange in 2014.                                   
          JPMorgan started the fight with a lawsuit in November, claiming it was owed around $162 million more for a
          set of warrants it had acquired as part of the bond sale. Tesla on Monday said the bank wasn't entitled to the
          billions of dollars in stock it got last year from those warrants.      
          The dispute is lifting the curtain on a testy relationship between the nation's biggest bank and the world's
          most valuable auto maker.                                               
          JPMorgan has been spurned by Tesla on business dealings and executives at the companies have clashed,
          including chief executives Jamie Dimon and Elon Musk, The Wall Street Journal has reported.
          Tesla claimed that the feud is what is really behind JPMorgan's suit. It alleged the bank's actions amounted to
          "bad faith and avarice."                                                
                                                                                  
          "JPM pressed its exorbitant demand as an act of retaliation against Tesla both for it having passed over JPM
          in major business deals and out of senior JPM executives' animus toward Mr. Musk," Tesla alleged.
          Mr. Musk said he would write a one-star review on Yelp if the bank didn't withdraw the suit.
          JPMorgan said Monday that "there is no merit to their claim. This comes down to fulfilling contractual
          obligations."                                                           
                                                                                  
          The dispute centers on one of Mr. Musk's more turbulent episodes, when he toyed with taking Tesla private in
          2018. He was later forced to relinquish his title as chairman in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission over his tweets about it.                                    
          In 2014, JPMorgan acquired warrants from Tesla as part of a convertible bond sale it worked on for the auto
          maker with other banks.                                                 
          The warrants allowed the banks to acquire stock in Tesla at a set price when they expired in June and July
          2021.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan has claimed Mr. Musk affected the value of the warrants when he tweeted in 2018 that he had the
          funding to take Tesla private. The bank used his tweets as justification to lower the strike price of the
          warrants, allowing it to get more profit if Tesla's stock kept rising.  
          Last summer, Tesla paid up based on the original price but refused to accept JPMorgan's change. The bank
          got what amounted to billions of dollars in stock, Tesla said Monday.   
          Tesla on Monday said JPMorgan had no right to make the change and demand more money, in part because
          it said the bank didn't really believe Mr. Musk would take Tesla private. It said Mr. Musk's tweets didn't impact
          the value and that none of the other banks made the change.             
          Tesla said the bank broke the contract and instead should have canceled the warrants and returned them.
          The suit is seeking unspecified damages and fees from the bank.         
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220125ei1p0000f                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers'BonusesAreFat,butBossesWarnItWon'tLast                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bankers' Bonuses Are Fat, but Bosses Warn It Won't Last                 
          By Liz Hoffman and David Benoit                                         
          925 words                                                               
          21 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Higher bonuses handed out this week across Wall Street came with a warning: Don't get used to it.
          After a blockbuster year, the five biggest investment banks paid out $142 billion in compensation for 2021,
          $18 billion more than in 2020. Pay, which on Wall Street is usually tightly tethered to how much money firms
          bring in, rose twice as fast as revenue.                                
          At JPMorgan Chase & Co., compensation for investment bankers and traders rose 13%, about three times as
          much as the extra revenue they produced. On Thursday, JPMorgan said it is paying Chief Executive Jamie
          Dimon $34.5 million for a record-breaking 2021, $3 million more than he made in the previous two years. The
          JPMorgan board had also awarded Mr. Dimon a $50 million special bonus earlier in 2021.
          Citigroup Inc.'s revenue declined slightly from 2020, yet the bank paid out $3 billion more to its employees
          than it did a year earlier.                                             
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. gave about half a billion dollars in special stock bonuses to its roughly 400
          partners, people familiar with the matter said.                         
                                                                                  
          But in meetings across Wall Street with their bosses, bankers said they were warned this week not to expect
          the same in 2022. U.S. stocks are off to a rocky start. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates
          several times this year, which will likely damp investor enthusiasm for high-yield bonds, shares of Silicon
          Valley startups and other big moneymakers for banks. A looming antitrust crackdown in Washington could
          slow a merger boom that last year generated a record $13.5 billion in fees for the top three U.S. banks.
          Goldman executives chose to give partners a special bonus -- rather than simply boost their standard stock
          awards -- to gift-wrap it as a one-time event and keep their expectations in check going forward, the people
          said.                                                                   
          "To the extent the environment in 2022 shifts, that compensation model is highly variable," Goldman's chief
          financial officer told analysts Tuesday, signaling to shareholders that the company's generosity was a one-off.
          Even the pomp of bonus day was missing this year. With banks' offices still sparsely populated due to the
          pandemic, there was less collective witness to the jubilant strut, or despondent shuffle, of employees freshly
          informed of their haul. And with New York still muted due to the Omicron variant, there was less of the
          celebratory spending that typically marks the occasion.                 
          A year ago, banks were similarly sitting on higher profits. But they were stingier with pay, waiting to gauge the
          economy's recovery and mindful of the optics of rewarding white-collar workers who had decamped to
          vacation homes while scores of people lost their jobs, or their lives, to the pandemic.
          This time, firms are under pressure to share the wealth. Bankers have watched their pay plateau while their
          former colleagues and recent college graduates find fortunes in bitcoin, SPACs and meme stocks.
          "It's wild how hot the labor market is," said Alan Johnson, a consultant who helps financial firms design their
          pay programs. "You've got crypto, you've got tech," he said, plus the ever-present "siren song of private
          equity," which pays far more than banks do.                             
                                                                                  
          Michael Bucella, who left his Goldman job in 2017 for BlockTower Capital, a crypto investment firm, said
          former colleagues are reaching out in large numbers. "'It's like, 'I'm in Miami, let's get dinner, and by the way
          here are three job offers I'm considering,'" he said. Crypto "offers compensation and a level of excitement that
          the banks just can't."                                                  
          The banks are trying.                                                   
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Compensation as a percentage of revenue at the five biggest companies ticked up to 35% from 33%, where it
          had been for two years. That means their bankers, traders, engineers and portfolio managers took home an
          extra $9 billion that might otherwise have gone back to shareholders or been invested in new loans or
          technology upgrades. Jefferies Financial Group LLC gave its most-junior employees a choice of gifts
          including a Peloton bike.                                               
          The shares given to partners at Goldman, which produced a record $59 billion in revenue in 2021, vest more
          quickly than the company's basic stock awards, people familiar with the matter said. That makes the shares
          more valuable and more competitive with the equity doled out by technology firms and some boutique
          banks, which is available quickly and with few restrictions on selling. 
          The payouts come after a go-go year that generated record revenue for banks but widespread burnout
          among their workers. Mr. Johnson said he counseled his clients not to expect outpourings of gratitude. "No
          matter how much you pay them, people believe that with all the stress they've gone through, they deserved
          more," he said.                                                         
          At JPMorgan, the bonus pool for investment bankers was about a third higher than in 2020, a person familiar
          with the matter said. Stock traders got higher payouts after a record year for that business, and bonuses for
          fixed-income traders, where revenue fell from a 2020 peak, were also on the whole higher.
          JPMorgan also gave its younger staff a raise this week for the second time in seven months, lifting base
          salaries to match rivals. First-year bankers will now make $110,000 a year, up from $85,000 at the start of
          2021, according to a person familiar with the matter.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020220121ei1l00020                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Outlook2022(ASpecialReport)---TheProsAreNowFollowingThe'DumbMoney':Afteramateurdaytradersupendedmarkets,itseemsthe...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Outlook 2022 (A Special Report) --- The Pros Are Now Following The 'Dumb Money': After amateur
          day traders upended markets, it seems the retail revolution is here to stay
          By Caitlin McCabe                                                       
          898 words                                                               
          18 January 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Last year, amateur investors took financial markets by storm. This year, Wall Street professionals are
          watching them closely.                                                  
          Fund managers who might have once derided small-time day traders as "dumb money" are scouring
          social-media posts for clues about where the herd might veer next. Some 85% of hedge funds and 42% of
          asset managers are now tracking retail-trading message boards, according to a survey by Bloomberg
          Intelligence.                                                           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. in September introduced a new data product that includes information on which
          securities individual investors are likely buying and selling, as well as which sectors and stocks are being
          talked about on social media. About 50 clients, including some of the largest asset and quant managers, are
          testing the product, the bank says. JPMorgan equity traders are also using it to help manage their own risk.
          "The flow from retail is not something you can ignore if you are a professional investor," says Chris Berthe,
          JPMorgan's global co-head of cash equities trading. "It's a whole new investor class that has emerged, and
          it's an investor class that's actually getting themes right."           
          The shift illustrates just how much the rookies have changed the investing landscape. A year ago, market
          observers were questioning if the retail revolution would continue. Now many are asking what it will look like
          this year.                                                              
          After shying away from active investing for much of the past decade, millions of Americans, hunkered down at
          home because of Covid-19, became day traders in 2020. Enticed by volatile markets and phone apps that
          made it free to trade stocks, they flocked to social media for investing ideas. That year, they piled into stocks
          like Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (and ultimately were rewarded when the car-rental company exited
          bankruptcy). It is estimated that more than 10 million individual investors opened new brokerage accounts in
          2020, according to Devin Ryan, director of financial-technology research at JMP Securities.
          Last year the trends from 2020 accelerated. JMP Securities estimates that a further 15 million Americans
          signed up for brokerage accounts in 2021. Social-media forums became increasingly used for trading. Some
          individual investors used their growing numbers to send stocks including GameStop Corp. and AMC
          Entertainment Holdings Inc. flying.                                     
          JPMorgan estimates that individual investors accounted for more than a third of daily trading activity several
          times over the past 18 months, reaching nearly 40% of shares traded on peak days.
          To be sure, many of the newbies lost money. Many amateur investors bought into buzzy shares near the top
          of rallies, only to watch the prices rapidly plummet.                   
          Individual traders in 2021 purchased a net $292 billion of U.S. stocks and exchange-traded funds, according
          to Vanda Research's VandaTrack platform, which tracks and sells data on the purchases of U.S. equities by
          individual investors. That is more than seven times the amount in 2019. Individual investors so far appear
          poised to continue similar levels of buying activity in 2022.           
          Analysts expect a bumpier road ahead for U.S. stocks this year, and some money managers believe that any
          prolonged volatility could wash individual investors out of the market. Many say that today's activity resembles
          the late 1990s, when individual investors piled into trading only to flee when the dot-com bubble burst.
          So far, individual investors have shown a strong stomach. Last year, the group's eight largest buying days by
          dollar volume occurred when the S&P 500 sank 1.3% or more, VandaTrack data show.
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          By some accounts, newbie investors have altered some professional investors' trading strategies. Meme
          stocks like GameStop had high levels of short interest before they caught the attention of Reddit traders. That
          means other investors -- usually professionals -- were betting those stocks would fall. When shorting a stock,
          an investor borrows shares of a company and sells them, hoping to buy them back later at a lower price.
          When the amateurs sent GameStop and other stocks soaring, the short sellers were sometimes forced to buy
          back shares, often at much higher prices.                               
          These days, investors are avoiding taking big chances with short-selling plays, according to an analysis by
          Ihor Dusaniwsky. He is head of predictive analytics at S3 Partners, a technology and data analytics firm
          that tracks activity by short sellers.                                  
          Just seven stocks in the U.S. market had short interest of 40% or more at the end of 2021, according to his
          analysis of stocks where at least $10 million of shares had been sold short. That was down from 40 stocks at
          the beginning of January 2020 and 19 stocks in January 2021.            
          Last year, S3 started offering new tools that tell clients which stocks have crowded levels of short interest and
          which could leave them vulnerable to sudden losses if individual investors pile in.
                                                                                  
          "In the back of every hedge fund's mind is, 'I don't want to