 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Summary of Risk Factors 

The following is a summary of some of the material risks and uncertainties that could have an adverse effect on our business. 

&#8226; Credit Risk 

&#9702; We have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. 

&#9702; Should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

&#9702; We are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan clients and counterparties. 

&#9702; Various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase or to be inadequate. 

&#9702; Declining asset prices could adversely affect us. 

&#9702; Geopolitical destabilization could adversely impact our loan portfolios. 

&#8226; Compliance Risk 

&#9702; We are subject to extensive government regulation, supervision, and tax legislation. 

&#9702; We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy and cybersecurity, which could limit our ability to pursue business initiatives, increase the cost of doing business and subject us to compliance risks and potential liability. 

&#9702; Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. 

&#8226; Operational Risk 

&#9702; We are subject to a variety of operational risks. 

&#9702; We and third parties on which we rely (including their downstream service providers) may experience a cyberattack, technology failure, information system or security breach or interruption. 

&#9702; We rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. 

&#9702; We are, and may in the future be, subject to claims, litigation, investigations, and governmental proceedings, which could result in significant financial liability and/or reputational harm. 

&#9702; Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. 

&#9702; Our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by severe weather and natural disasters exacerbated by climate change. 

&#9702; Societal and governmental responses to climate change could adversely affect Key&#8217;s business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on Key&#8217;s customers. 

&#9702; The increased use of remote work infrastructure has expanded potential attack vectors and resulted in increased operational risks. 

&#8226; Liquidity Risk 

&#9702; Capital and liquidity requirements imposed by banking regulations require banks and BHCs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets. 

&#9702; Federal agencies&#8217; actions to ensure stability of the U.S. financial system may have disruptive effects on us. 

&#9702; We rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. 

&#9702; We are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. 

&#9702; Our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. 

&#8226; Market Risk 

&#9702; A worsening of the U.S. economy and volatile or recessionary conditions in the U.S. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. 

&#9702; We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. 

&#9702; Our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and in certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. 

&#9702; The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. 

&#9702; Depressed market values for our common stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down all or some portion of our goodwill. 

Table of contents 

&#8226; Reputation Risk 

&#9702; Damage to our reputation could significantly impact our business and major stakeholders. 

&#9702; Key is subject to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks that could adversely affect our reputation, the trading price of our common stock and/or our business and results of operations. 

&#8226; Strategic Risk 

&#9702; We may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. 

&#9702; We operate in a highly competitive industry. 

&#9702; Maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive products and services. 

&#9702; We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. 

&#9702; Acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. 

&#8226; Model Risk 

&#9702; We rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management, capital planning, and treasury functions. 

As a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. Described below are the material risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Disclosures of risks should not be interpreted to imply that the risks have not already materialized. 

Our ERM program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. Our ERM program identifies Key&#8217;s major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. These risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. 

I. Credit Risk 

We have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. 

As of December 31, 2023, approximately 69% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These types of loans are typically larger than single family residential real estate loans and other types of consumer loans and have a different risk profile. The deterioration of a larger loan or a group of loans in this category could cause an increase in criticized and nonperforming loans, which could result in lower earnings from these loans, additional provision for loan and lease losses, and ultimately an increase in loan losses. 

Should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Recent Federal Reserve monetary policy, including shrinkage of its balance sheet and incremental increases in target interest rates early in 2023 followed by a sustained period of relatively high target interest rates throughout 

the latter part of 2023, continue to impact the commercial and residential real estate markets. Capitalization rates 

are rising, and property value appreciation has slowed or is now declining. In many markets within Key&#8217;s footprint, 

property values have begun to decrease. Industrial and retail properties continue to remain stable, but multifamily, 

office, hospitality, and single family detached properties are beginning to show signs of deterioration. Development 

and construction continue, but at muted levels, and deliveries of additional units into the market have been supported. Oversupply of multifamily housing is a concern in certain urban and gateway markets. However, our 

exposures in those markets are limited (for example, approximately 5% of our multifamily portfolio is located in New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco; we also have no exposure to rent controlled properties in New York City). The most severely impacted commercial real estate segments have been in office. Key&#8217;s non-owner occupied office exposures are 5% of our total commercial real estate exposure. Substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could negatively impact our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate but in the comparatively better performing multifamily space over the cycle. A correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans or to refinance the loans at maturity. A 

Table of contents 

relatively small portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. New construction and value-add or rehabilitation construction projects may not be fully leased at loan origination. These properties typically require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. If property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, performance under existing leases could deteriorate and the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower&#8217;s ability to cover debt service payments. 

We are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan clients and counterparties. 

Many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk, including the risk of default of our counterparties, which include other financial institutions, or clients. Our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we rely on information furnished by or on 

behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. We also rely 

on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. The inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. In addition, given the Dodd-Frank legislative mandate to centrally clear eligible derivative contracts, we rely on central clearing counterparties to remain open and operationally viable at all times. A financial institution or other counterparty failure, such as the bank failures in early 2023, or a cybersecurity breach could result in the failure of or disruption to a counterparty or client, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase or to be inadequate. 

We maintain an ALLL (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance at December 31, 2023 represents management&#8217;s estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual life of our existing loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the ALLL inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and current trends and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions, all of which may undergo frequent and material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the softening of certain macroeconomic variables that we are more susceptible to, such as GDP, unemployment, SOFR and other interest rates, the producer price index, and real estate values, along with updated information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the ALLL. Further, the multitude and totality of factors impacting our estimates and the subjectivity of components of its calculation may cause the ALLL to be an inadequate representation of the actual losses incurred over the life of our loan portfolio. Both an increase in the ALLL and actual losses exceeding our current estimates will reduce our net income and could impact our capital positions and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Declining asset prices could adversely affect us. 

During periods of economic stress, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experience may reach, and have in the past reached, extreme levels. Market disruption may severely stress or even lead to the failure of financial institutions, which can cause further credit market constriction and further liquidation of assets, driving asset prices down even more. Asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of collateral and certain of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. 

The most recent recession, resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, did not have significant lasting 

impact on collateral value. However, there are still risks to economic stability that could reverse recent stable trends in asset prices. 

These risks include: 

&#8226; A correction in equity or housing markets; 

&#8226; Supply chain issues such as closed factories and disrupted port activity, as well as the impact of the Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Hamas war on global transportation and the availability of materials; 

&#8226; Labor-supply constraints, leading to slowing job growth and boosting wages along with inflation (wage-price spiral); and 

Table of contents 

&#8226; Negative GDP growth, as a result of, in part, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s monetary policy efforts to arrest inflationary pressures within the broader economy. 

Geopolitical destabilization could adversely impact our loan portfolios. 

While we have minimal direct foreign company exposure in our loan portfolios, there are correlated and contingent risks posed by geopolitical destabilization within our loan portfolio. For example, conflicts across the world, including the Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Hamas war, have proven to have a material impact on certain domestic commodity prices, impacting our borrowers' input costs and disrupting supply chains both domestically and abroad. These factors increase potential defaults in our loan portfolio and could ultimately increase loan losses. 

II. Compliance Risk 

We are subject to extensive government regulation, supervision, and tax legislation. 

As a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision, and tax 

legislation. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors&#8217; funds, the DIF, consumers, taxpayers, 

and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. These regulations increase our costs and 

affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. 

KeyBank and KeyCorp remain covered institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s heightened prudential standards 

and regulations, including its provisions designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. Like similarly situated 

institutions, Key undergoes routine scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and is subject to 

enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to consumer banking-related 

practices, including fair and responsible banking, fair lending, unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, and the 

Community Reinvestment Act, as well as compliance with AML, BSA and Office of Foreign Assets Control efforts. 

Changes to existing statutes and regulations, and taxes (including industry-specific taxes and surcharges), or their 

interpretation or implementation, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Interpretation of consumer 

banking-related regulations may evolve as the industry and the regulators seek to increase access to banking products and services by consumers. For example, the CFPB has launched an initiative to reduce the amounts and 

types of fees financial institutions may charge, including the issuance of proposed rules that would significantly reduce the permissible amount of credit card late fees and NSF fees on transactions that are declined instantaneously or near-instantaneously and the issuance of an advisory opinion prohibiting large financial institutions (including Key) from imposing unreasonable obstacles on customers, such as charging excessive fees, for basic information about their own accounts. Such changes may subject us to additional costs, adversely impact our income, and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply and may also impact consumer behavior, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. In addition, changes to laws and regulations may impact our customers by requiring them to adjust their operations or practices or impair their ability to pay fees or outstanding loans or afford new products, which could negatively impact demand for our products and services. 

Certain federal regulations have been in existence for decades without modification to account for modern banking 

practices, such as digital delivery of products and services, which can create challenges in execution and in the 

examination process. Emerging technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, could limit KeyBank&#8217;s ability to track the 

movement of funds. KeyBank&#8217;s ability to comply with BSA/AML and other regulations is dependent on its ability to 

improve detection and reporting capabilities and reduce variation in control processes and oversight accountability. 

Additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, fines, or restitution, 

to issue cease and desist or removal orders, and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and 

affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices 

determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. 

Failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, 

penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputational damage, or restrictions on our business. Moreover, different 

government administrations may have different regulatory priorities, which may impact the level of regulation of 

financial institutions and the enforcement environment. 

Table of contents 

For more information, see &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report. 

We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy and cybersecurity, which could limit our ability to pursue business initiatives, increase the cost of doing business and subject us to compliance risks and potential liability. 

We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal 

information of our customers, employees, job applicants, and other individuals. Complying with laws and regulations applicable to our collection, use, transfer, and storage of personal information can increase operating costs, impact 

the development and marketing of new products or services, and reduce operational efficiency. Any mishandling or 

misuse of personal information by Key or our vendors could expose us to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties, or 

other sanctions. 

At the federal level, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, as amended, which requires financial 

institutions to, among other things, periodically disclose their privacy policies and practices relating to sharing personal information and, in some cases, enables customers to opt out of the sharing of certain non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties. We are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including with respect to privacy and cybersecurity. A number of states have also recently enacted consumer privacy laws that impose compliance obligations with respect to personal information or issued guidance regarding the same, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (known as the &#8220;CCPA&#8221;), and the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulations. In addition, there has been a significant increase in privacy-related litigation in recent years with respect to how organizations collect information and technical data from their public facing websites, and federal and state courts have been creating new legal frameworks around consumer and website privacy, which also creates new risks on businesses. As new privacy-related laws and regulations, and judicially-created frameworks, are implemented in jurisdictions in which KeyBank operates, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for noncompliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. Compliance with these laws and regulations has required and may continue to require us to change our policies, procedures, and technology for information security and segregation of data, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to operational failures, and subject us to monetary penalties for breach of such laws and regulations. As a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon Key of significant regulations. 

Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. 

The FASB periodically changes the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of Key&#8217;s 

financial statements. Additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how Key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. 

III. Operational Risk 

We are subject to a variety of operational risks. 

In addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of 

loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes, internal controls, systems, and external events. Operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees or others outside of Key, clerical and recordkeeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats from cyber activity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. Fraudulent activity has escalated, become more sophisticated, and is ever evolving as there are more options to access financial services. Operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. We are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, 

Table of contents 

such as certain loan processing functions. For example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors&#8217; systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. Resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs (including remediation costs), harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions, or foregone business opportunities. 

We rely on our employees to design, manage, and operate our systems and controls to assure that we properly enter into, record and manage processes, transactions and other relationships with customers, vendors, suppliers, 

and other parties with whom we do business. We also depend on employees and the systems and controls for which they are responsible to assure that we identify and mitigate the risks that are inherent in our relationships and 

activities. These concerns are increased when we change processes or procedures, introduce new products or services, or implement new technologies, as we may fail to adequately identify or manage operational risks resulting from such changes. These concerns may be further exacerbated by employee turnover or labor shortages. As a result of our necessary reliance on employees to perform these tasks and manage resulting risks, we are thus subject to human vulnerabilities. These range from innocent human error to misconduct or malfeasance, potentially 

leading to operational breakdowns or other failures. Our controls may not be adequate to prevent problems resulting from human involvement in our business, including risks associated with the design, operation and monitoring of automated systems. We may also fail to adequately develop a culture of risk management among our employees. 

We and third parties on which we rely (including their downstream service providers) may experience a cyberattack, technology failure, information system or security breach or interruption. 

We rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties), and the internet to conduct our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of 

daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory, and internal standards and specifications. In addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of personal 

and confidential information, such as the personal information of our employees, customers, and clients. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings, expand our internal usage of web/cloud-based products and applications, and maintain and develop new 

relationships with third-party providers, including their downstream service providers. In addition, our ability to extend protections to customers&#8217; information to individual customer devices is limited, especially if the customers 

willingly provide third parties access to their devices or information. 

In the event of a failure, interruption, or breach of our information systems, or that of a third party that provides services to us or our customers, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. For example, we may experience operational disruptions or interruptions as a result of a cyber incident, including disruption caused by 

protective containment measures taken by us, such as taking certain first- or third-party systems off-line for a prolonged period. Such a failure, interruption, or breach could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, or reputational harm. U.S. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including Key, have had third parties on which they rely experience such breaches. In addition, several financial institutions, including Key, have experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disrupt, disable, or degrade services, or sabotage systems or data. Other attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential, proprietary, or personal information or intellectual property, to extort money through the use of &#8220;ransomware&#8221; or other extortion tactics, or to alter or destroy data or systems, often through various attack vectors and methods, including the introduction of computer viruses or malicious code (commonly referred to as &#8220;malware&#8221;), phishing, cyberattacks, account takeovers, credential stuffing, and other means. To the extent that we use third parties to provide services to our clients, we cannot control all of the risks at these third parties or third parties&#8217; downstream service providers. Hardware, software, or applications developed by Key or received from third parties may contain exploitable vulnerabilities, bugs, or defects in design, maintenance or manufacture or other issues that could unpredictably compromise information and cybersecurity. We depend on third party service providers and their downstream service providers to implement adequate controls and safeguards to protect against and report cyber incidents. If such parties fail to deter, detect, or report cyber incidents in a timely manner, we may suffer from financial and other harm, including to our information, operations, performance, employees, and reputation. In addition, should an adverse event affecting another company&#8217;s systems occur, we may not have indemnification or other protection from the other company sufficient to fully compensate us or otherwise protect us or our clients from the consequences. To date, our losses and costs related to these breaches have not been material, but other similar events in the future could have a material impact on our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. 

Table of contents 

In addition, our customers routinely use Key-issued credit and debit cards to pay for transactions conducted with 

businesses in person and over the internet. If the business&#8217;s systems that process or store debit or credit card information experience a security breach, our card holders may experience fraud on their card accounts. We may 

suffer losses associated with such fraudulent transactions, as well as for other costs, such as replacing impacted 

cards. Key also provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we 

have with payment networks such as Mastercard. Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data breach. 

We also face risks related to the increasing interdependence and interconnectivity of financial entities and technology systems. A technology failure, cyberattack or other security breach that significantly compromises the 

systems of one or more financial parties or service providers in the financial system could have a material impact on 

counterparties or market participants, including us. Any third-party technology failure, cyberattack, or security breach could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service clients, or otherwise operate our business 

and could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, or reputational harm. Additionally, the increasing use of third-party financial data aggregators and emerging technologies, including the use of automation, 

artificial intelligence and robotics, introduces new information security risks and exposure for us and for our third party service providers; such technologies could also result in increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks. 

Such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources/malicious actors, including, but not limited to, 

persons who constitute an insider threat, who are involved with organized crime, or who may be linked to terrorist 

organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our 

data or that of our customers or clients through social engineering, phishing, mobile phone malware and SIM card 

swapping, and other methods. Our security systems, and those of the third-party service providers on which we rely, 

may not be able to protect our information systems or data from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. We are also subject to the risk that a malicious actor or our employees may 

intercept and/or transmit or otherwise misuse unauthorized personal, confidential, or proprietary information or intellectual property. An interception, misuse, or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information or 

intellectual property being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation 

costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. 

We have incurred and will continue to incur significant expense in an effort to improve the reliability and resilience of 

our systems and their security against internal and external threats. Nonetheless, we cannot guarantee our measures will be effective or sufficient to prevent a cyber incident, and there remains the risk that one or more adverse events might occur. If one does occur, it could go undetected and persist for an extended period of time and/or we may be unable to remediate the event or its consequences timely or adequately. While we do maintain cyber information security and business interruption insurance, losses from a major interruption may exceed our coverage and there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies, that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. 

We rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. 

Third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. Additionally, some of our third parties outsource 

aspects of their operations to downstream service providers. These parties are subject to similar risks as Key 

relating to cybersecurity and breakdowns or failures of their own systems, internal processes and controls, or 

employees. One or more of these third parties or their downstream service providers may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. Certain of these third parties may have limited 

indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with 

such third party&#8217;s ability to serve us. Any unanticipated interruption, delay, or degradation in the performance and 

delivery of our services could negatively impact our customer relationships. Additionally, some of our outsourcing 

arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. 

If a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such 

third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to identify or develop alternative sources for 

these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, contract with, 

evaluate, engage with, and manage their third parties, including such third parties&#8217; use of subcontractors, affects the 

Table of contents 

circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and their subcontractors and the cost of 

managing such relationships. 

We are, and may in the future be, subject to claims, litigation, investigations, and governmental proceedings, which could result in significant financial liability and/or reputational harm. 

We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, claims or legal actions taken against us by customers, vendors, shareholders, or other parties. Further, KeyCorp and certain of its directors and officers are currently named, and have in the past been named and may be named in the future, as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to our business and activities. We maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. At any given time, we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. Resolution of a legal action can often take years. Whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. 

We are also involved, from time to time, in other information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations, and 

proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, 

including, among other things, accounting, compliance, and operational matters, which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief which, if significant, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Enforcement authorities may also seek admissions of wrongdoing and, in some cases, criminal pleas as part of the resolutions of matters and any such resolution of a matter involving Key could lead to increased exposure to private litigation, could adversely affect Key&#8217;s reputation, and could result in limitations on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. Further, enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and CRA ratings, which may in turn restrict or limit our activities. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of investigations and proceedings in the financial services industry. A violation of law or regulation by another financial institution may give rise to an inquiry or investigation by regulators or other authorities of the same or similar practices by Key. For example, on February 9, 2024, affiliates of Key entered into a settlement agreement with the SEC&#8217;s Division of Enforcement to resolve an investigation of the affiliates&#8217; compliance with records preservation requirements related to business communications sent over off-channel electronic messaging platforms. The settlement resulted in payment of a $10 million penalty to the SEC along with other prospective relief. The SEC has conducted similar investigations of other financial institutions as part of a widely publicized industry sweep that has included publicly announced settlements with multiple firms. The outcome of regulatory matters as well as the timing of ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict, and the uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties. 

Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. 

We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, compliance monitoring 

activities, and corporate governance policies and procedures. We also maintain an ERM program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze our risks. Additionally, our internal audit function provides an independent assessment and testing of Key&#8217;s internal controls, policies, and procedures. Any system of controls 

and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed, operated, and tested, is based in part on certain 

assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. 

The systems may not work as intended or be circumvented by employees, third parties, or others outside of Key. 

Additionally, instruments, systems, and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of 

market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational, and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective 

than anticipated. As a result, we may not be able to effectively or fully mitigate our risk exposures in particular 

market environments or against particular types of risk. 

Our operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by severe weather and natural disasters exacerbated by climate change. 

Natural disasters, including wildfires, tornadoes, severe storms, and hurricanes, have seemingly become more 

frequent and severe due to climate change. The timing and effects of these natural disasters are difficult to accurately predict, and the potential impact of such disasters on our operations, employees, and customers could 

Table of contents 

have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. Given our broad regional focus, we are exposed to a wide range of weather-related risk across different geographical areas. Severe 

weather events can directly affect our operations by interrupting systems, damaging facilities, disrupting our supply 

chain, and hindering our ability to conduct business as usual. Additionally, these events can indirectly impact us by 

damaging or destroying customer businesses, impairing their ability to repay loans, or causing damage to properties pledged as collateral for loans made by Key. Although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, such measures could be costly, and any disaster could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as usual. In addition, the insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from any business interruption resulting from a natural disaster or other severe weather events, and recurring extreme weather events could reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance. Our failure to comply with evolving regulatory requirements related to natural disaster risk management may also result in legal and financial consequences. 

Societal and governmental responses to climate change could adversely affect Key&#8217;s business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on Key&#8217;s customers. 

Concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and may continue to lead to governmental efforts 

around the world to mitigate those impacts. New and/or more stringent regulatory requirements could materially 

affect our results by requiring us to take costly measures to comply with any new laws or regulations related to 

climate change that may be adopted by federal, state, and local governments. Consumers and businesses also may change their own behavior as a result of these concerns. Key and its customers will need to respond to new laws and regulations, as well as consumer and business preferences resulting from climate change concerns. Key and its customers may face cost increases, asset value reductions, operating process changes, and the like. In addition, the multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations regarding climate change that have been or may be adopted by various jurisdictions could increase our cost of doing business and make compliance with such laws and regulations more difficult. The impact on Key&#8217;s customers will likely vary depending on their specific attributes, including reliance on or role in carbon intensive activities. Changes to regulations or market shifts to low-carbon products could impact the credit worthiness or the value of assets securing loans of some of our customers, which may require us to adjust our lending portfolios and business strategies. Key&#8217;s efforts to take these risks into account in making lending and other decisions, including by increasing business relationships with climate-friendly companies, may not be effective in protecting Key from the negative impact of new laws and regulations or changes in consumer or business behavior. 

The increased use of remote work infrastructure has expanded potential attack vectors and resulted in increased operational risks. 

The increase in remote work over the past several years has resulted in an expanded potential attack surface and 

heightened operational risks and may negatively impact our ability, and the ability of our third-party service providers (including their downstream service providers), to perform services efficiently, securely, and without interruptions. In 

addition to some of our workforce working remotely periodically or on a full-time basis, our third-party service providers (including their downstream service providers) may utilize personnel who work remotely. Increased levels 

of remote access create additional cybersecurity risk and opportunities for cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilities. 

For example, cybercriminals have become increasingly sophisticated in their attempts to compromise business emails, including by targeting employees through an increase of phishing attempts and fraudulent calls, including 

through the use of artificial intelligence. These fraudulent activities have resulted in increased fraud losses to us and 

the financial services industry generally. In addition to enhanced cybersecurity risk, employees and other personnel 

performing services for us who work remotely may experience disruptions to their home internet or phone connections, decreased efficiency due to delayed network speeds or other interruptions, and/or delays in the 

dissemination and exchange of information, any of which could negatively impact our operations. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruption related to remote work, which disruptions could adversely 

impact our business, and could result in legal liability, regulatory penalties, litigation expenses, remediation costs, or 

reputational harm. 

IV. Liquidity Risk 

Capital and liquidity requirements imposed by banking regulations require banks and BHCs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets. 

Evolving capital standards resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and the Regulatory Capital Rules adopted by our 

Table of contents 

regulators have had and will continue to have a significant impact on banks and BHCs, including Key. For a detailed 

explanation of the capital and liquidity rules that apply to us, see the section titled &#8220;Regulatory capital requirements&#8221; 

under the heading &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report. 

Regulatory capital standards require Key to maintain significant amounts of high-quality capital (e.g., common equity) and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. They could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. 

In addition, regulatory liquidity standards require us to hold high-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our 

future mix of investment alternatives, and may impact future business relationships with certain customers. 

Additionally, support of liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which 

tend to have a higher cost than that of traditional core deposits. 

Further, the Federal Reserve has detailed the processes that BHCs should maintain to ensure they hold adequate 

capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital 

activities. These processes, the severity and other characteristics of which may evolve from year-to-year, are used 

by the Federal Reserve to, among other things, evaluate our management of capital and the adequacy of our 

regulatory capital and to determine the stress capital buffer that we must maintain above our minimum regulatory 

capital requirements. The results of these processes are difficult to predict due to, among other things, the Federal 

Reserve&#8217;s use of proprietary stress models that differ from our internal models and may result in the Federal 

Reserve imposing capital requirements in excess of our expectations which could require us, as applicable, to 

revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel, or alter 

our planned capital actions. The results may also lead to limits on Key&#8217;s ability to make distributions, including 

paying out dividends or buying back shares. 

In addition, certain regulatory rule changes related to tailoring outlined in the EGRRCPA were finalized in 2019. While marginal relief from certain capital and liquidity standards has been afforded to Key (such as relief from LCR 

disclosure requirements), overall capital and liquidity management practices and expectations will remain unchanged for the foreseeable future. Moreover, Key has not experienced significant changes to its overall liquidity 

and capital levels or composition as a result of these final rules. 

On July 27, 2023, the Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC issued a proposal to implement the Basel Committee&#8217;s 

&#8220;Basel III&#8221; regulatory capital framework and substantially revise the capital requirements applicable to large banking 

organizations (those with $100 billion or more in total assets such as Key) and to banking organizations with 

significant trading activity. For more information on the proposal, see the section titled &#8220;Regulatory capital requirements&#8221; under the heading &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report. If implemented as proposed, the proposed rule would significantly increase capital requirements applicable to Key and many activities in which 

Key engages. 

Federal agencies&#8217; actions to ensure stability of the U.S. financial system may have disruptive effects on us. 

The federal government, in recent years, has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. For example, in March 2020, the Federal Reserve initiated a round of emergency interest rate cuts designed to mitigate some of the economic effects resulting from the pandemic and subsequently began raising interest rates in March 2022 in an effort to combat inflation. These initiatives have impacted financial markets and our business and caused increased market and interest rate volatility, higher debt yields, an inverted slope to the yield curve, and unanticipated changes to quality spread premiums that may not follow historical relationships or patterns. 

In early 2023, a series of bank failures, including SVB and Signature, lead the U.S. Treasury Secretary, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve to invoke the systemic risk exception to the least-cost resolution requirement under the FDIA to guarantee uninsured deposits of the failed banks. The systemic bank exception can only be invoked for financial market risks that pose a threat to financial stability. As discussed under the section entitled &#8220;FDIA, Resolution Authority and Financial Stability&#8221; in &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on IDIs to recover the loss to the DIF resulting from the use of the systemic risk exception to protect the uninsured depositors of SVB and Signature. The impact of the special assessment to Key is 

approximately $190 million, which was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2023 and impacted noninterest expense for that quarter. In addition, rating agencies reacted to the volatility caused by the bank failures by issuing updated 

Table of contents 

ratings and assessments for numerous U.S. banks, including Key, as discussed below under &#8220;Our credit ratings affect our liquidity position.&#8221; 

Following these immediate responses, regulators have issued a number of NPRs and proposed guidance and promised to adopt further measures designed to strengthen capital and liquidity standards and restore confidence in 

the banking system applicable to Key including those discussed in &#8220;Regulatory capital requirements&#8221; under the heading &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report. These final and proposed rules, if implemented, and 

any related proposal that may be put forward, including regarding liquidity, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Capital and long-term debt requirements require us to divert 

resources from otherwise profitable lending and investment opportunities to ensure compliance, which may be dilutive to shareholders or limit Key&#8217;s ability to buy back shares or issue dividends. 

Further as market conditions evolve and respond to the influence of these government agency initiatives, or lack thereof, the slope of the yield curve will shift and influence our loan and deposit rates and value of investments. The 

actions of federal agencies are not fully predictable which contributes to market volatility and changes to the slope 

of the yield curve. 

We rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. 

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. With the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. Dividends 

by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. Federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends 

that KeyBank (KeyCorp&#8217;s largest subsidiary) can pay. For further information on the regulatory restrictions on the 

payment of dividends by KeyBank, see &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; in Item 1 of this report. 

In the event KeyBank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay 

dividends on our common or preferred stock. Such a situation could result in Key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary&#8217;s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary&#8217;s creditors. 

We are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. 

Market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. 

Although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance 

sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including a reduced level of wholesale funding sources), a 

substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on 

us. If the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of 

time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. These alternatives 

may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, 

borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. These alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, 

which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. 

Our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. 

The rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities issued by KeyCorp and KeyBank. The ratings of our long-term 

debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. Some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting 

the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could impact our ability to maintain our current credit ratings. For instance, in 2023, rating agencies reacted 

to the volatility in the banking industry by issuing updated ratings and assessments for numerous U.S. banks, including Key. Among the rating agencies, Moody's, Standard &#38; Poor's, and Fitch Ratings, Inc. each downgraded 

KeyCorp's and KeyBank's long-term debt ratings. The rationales for the downgrades, which are documented in the 

Table of contents 

agencies&#8217; respective credit opinions and analyses, included a challenging environment for the entire banking industry along with other company-specific factors. We may be unable to maintain our current ratings and our ratings may be downgraded again in the future. The impact of the recent downgrades to KeyCorp's or KeyBank's 

credit ratings, or further downgrades, could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase 

our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and 

counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. If future reductions placed on KeyCorp&#8217;s 

or KeyBank's credit ratings result in below-investment grade ratings, it could also create obligations or liabilities 

under the terms of existing arrangements that could increase our costs under such arrangements. 

V. Market Risk 

A worsening of the U.S. economy and volatile or recessionary conditions in the U.S. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. 

A worsening of economic and market conditions or downside shocks could result in adverse effects on Key and others in the financial services industry. Recent and persistent interest rate increases and a slowing economy have presented a challenge for the industry, including Key, and affected business and financial performance. 

In particular, we face the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the United States or internationally: 

&#8226; A loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the debt and equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of Key&#8217;s common shares, decreasing the credit or liquidity available to Key, or leading to an increase in depositors withdrawing funds; 

&#8226; A decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; 

&#8226; A decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for Key&#8217;s products and services; 

&#8226; A decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to Key&#8217;s borrowers or a decrease in the quality of Key&#8217;s loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing Key&#8217;s net income; 

&#8226; A decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; 

&#8226; An increase in competition or consolidation in the financial services industry; 

&#8226; Increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; 

&#8226; A decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the United States or other issuers whose securities we hold; and 

&#8226; An increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like Key. 

In the event of severely adverse business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets 

in which we conduct business, there can be no assurance that the federal government and the Federal Reserve 

would intervene or make adjustments to fiscal or monetary policy that would cause business and economic conditions to improve. A worsening of business and economic conditions or market volatility related thereto could 

have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

In addition, volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which has recently led to increased costs for businesses and consumers and caused the Federal Reserve to initiate a series of interest rate 

increases, may enhance or contribute to some of the risks of our business by adversely affecting the creditworthiness of our borrowers, increasing our costs, or resulting in lower values for our investment securities and other fixed-rate assets. To the extent that the Federal Reserve&#8217;s policies around managing inflation do not mitigate the volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, or to the extent conditions otherwise worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. 

Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between 

interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on 

interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors 

that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, 

consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products, and policies of various governmental and regulatory 

Table of contents 

agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Our ability to anticipate changes in these factors or to hedge the 

related on-and off-balance sheet exposures, and the cost of any such hedging activity, can significantly influence 

the success of our asset-and-liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest income and 

net interest margin. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the 

Federal Reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest 

we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our 

financial assets and liabilities. When the Federal Reserve raises or reduces interest rates, the behavior of national 

money market rate indices, the correlation of consumer deposit rates to financial market interest rates, and the 

setting of benchmark rates may not follow historical relationships, which could influence net interest income and net 

interest margin. In addition, our ability to change deposit rates in response to changes in interest rates and other 

market and related factors is limited by client relationship considerations. 

Moreover, if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we 

receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. Conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. 

The impact of interest rates on our investment portfolio and consolidated financial results, including AOCI, can also 

affect our ability to maintain our capital ratios within our target ranges as well as the amount and timing of our future share repurchases and dividends. For additional information about the effects on interest rates on our business, refer to the information included under the caption &#8220;Risk Management &#8212; Market risk management&#8221; in Item 7 of this report. 

Our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and in certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. 

We have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are 

located &#8212; Washington; Oregon/Alaska; Rocky Mountains; Indiana/Northwest Ohio/Michigan; Central/Southwest 

Ohio; East Ohio/Western Pennsylvania; Atlantic; Western New York; Eastern New York; and New England &#8212; and 

additional exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. Economic growth in the various regions 

where we operate has been uneven, and the health of the overall U.S. economy may differ from the economy of any 

particular geographic region. Adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, 

natural disasters, impact of public health crises, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of 

borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these 

regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. 

Additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the commercial real estate, 

healthcare, finance, and utilities market segments. The profitability of some of these market segments depends 

upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our 

control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. 

An economic downturn or recession in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any 

significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct 

significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our 

customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. 

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. 

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial 

soundness of other financial institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the 

financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and 

dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, insurance companies, and other 

institutional clients. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or 

other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services 

institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to, and may further lead to, market-wide liquidity 

problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other financial institutions. This phenomenon was evident 

following the bank failures in early 2023, as financial institutions, like us, were impacted by concerns regarding the 

soundness or creditworthiness of other financial institutions. Those events caused substantial and cascading 

Table of contents 

disruption within the financial markets and adversely impacted the market price and volatility of our common stock. 

In addition, many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of 

a counterparty or client. Our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is 

liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our loan or derivatives exposure. There can be no 

assurance that any such losses would not adversely and materially affect our results of operations. 

Depressed market values for our common stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down all or some portion of our goodwill. 

As of December 31, 2023, the book value of our goodwill was $2.8 billion. Goodwill is periodically tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the fair value is greater than the carrying amount, then the reporting unit&#8217;s goodwill is deemed not to be impaired. The fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit&#8217;s expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. A significant decline in a reporting unit&#8217;s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to be below its carrying amount, resulting in goodwill impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common stock, or on our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly reduce our earnings. See the &#8220;Critical Accounting Policies&#8221; section of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report for additional information. 

VI. Reputation Risk 

Damage to our reputation could significantly impact our business and major stakeholders. 

Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. Damage to our reputation could also adversely impact our credit ratings and access to capital markets. 

Significant harm to our reputation can arise from various sources, including inappropriate behavior or misconduct of 

employees, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, inadequate or ineffective risk 

management practices, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, corporate governance and regulatory compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, failure to meet external commitments and goals, including financial and ESG-related commitments, the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors, and actions taken by shareholder activists and community organizations. Additionally, actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry as well as legislative or regulatory actions that target or negatively impact the industry may also have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. 

Negative coverage about Key published in traditional media or on social media websites, whether or not factually correct, may affect our reputation and our business prospects and impact our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, thereby increasing the potential for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, false, misleading, or other negative information that could damage our reputation. Negative public opinion can also adversely affect our ability to attract 

and maintain customer relationships and could subject us to litigation and regulatory action. 

We are also subject to the risk that disruptions to how our customers access our banking services, such as disruptions to our technology platforms (e.g., online banking websites or mobile applications) or other impacts to our branches, could harm our reputation with customers. In particular, a cybersecurity event impacting Key or our customers&#8217; data or personal information could negatively impact our reputation and customer confidence in Key and our data security procedures. 

We could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests is complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations, and interests with and among our clients. The actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses, and could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. 

Table of contents 

Key is subject to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks that could adversely affect our reputation, the trading price of our common stock and/or our business and results of operations. 

Views about ESG-related issues are diverse, dynamic, and rapidly changing. Financial services companies, including Key, face increasing criticism from social and environmental activists who target companies, including Key, 

for engaging in business with clients engaged in industries such activists perceive to be harmful to communities or 

the environment. Such criticism directed at Key could generate dissatisfaction among our stakeholders. Additionally, 

however we respond to such criticism, we face the risk that current or potential clients may decline to do business 

with us or current or potential employees refuse to work with us. This can be true regardless of whether we are perceived by some as not having done enough to address activist concerns or by others as having inappropriately 

yielded to activist pressures. Conversely, certain states have taken, and may in the future take, actions or proposed 

measures to limit the state&#8217;s ability to do business with financial institutions or other businesses identified as discriminating against certain industries or practices based on environmental or social criteria. We could be inherently exposed to reputational, financial, and legal risk, and our ability to retain and attract customers and employees may be negatively impacted as a result of these contrasting arguments in how a financial institution 

should address these issues. 

Companies are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to 

their ESG practices and disclosures. We may face criticism or a loss of confidence, with accompanying reputational 

risk, from our perceived action or inaction to deliver on our ESG-related commitments. Investors and other stakeholders, including U.S. institutional investors, are increasingly considering how corporations are incorporating 

ESG matters, including climate change, into their business strategy when analyzing the expected risk and return of 

potential investments. The specific ESG factors considered, as well as the approach to incorporating the factors into 

a broader investment process, vary by investor and can shift over time. These shifts in investing priorities may result 

in adverse effects on the trading price of KeyCorp&#8217;s common stock if investors determine that Key has not made sufficient progress on ESG matters or is not aligned with the investors&#8217; ESG-related priorities. In addition, collecting, measuring, and reporting ESG information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming, is subject to evolving reporting standards, and can present numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal and other risks, any of which could have a material impact on Key, including on Key&#8217;s reputation. Further, inadequate processes to collect and review this information prior to disclosure could result in potential liability related to such information. 

VII. Strategic Risk 

We may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. 

Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including, among others, our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. Our strategic priorities include growing profitability; acquiring and expanding targeted client relationships; effectively managing risk and rewards; maintaining financial strength; and engaging, retaining, and inspiring our diverse and high-performing workforce. The success of these initiatives can be subject to changes in the macroeconomic environment that are beyond our control. In addition, our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities, or to do so in the expected timeframe, may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 

We operate in a highly competitive industry. 

We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. Our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks, including large technology companies, to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. We expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intense as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, customer preference, and technological changes. 

Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by 

Table of contents 

our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and an effective compliance program and keeping our assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a highly competent employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. Increased competition in the financial services industry, or our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 

Strategic risk may also be realized due to events or issues that materialize in other risk factor areas. For example, significant deficiencies in end-to-end operational execution and/or product delivery or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in unmet client expectations or harm and impact our competitive standing in the industry. 

Maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive products and services. 

The continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings 

to ensure they remain competitive. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, 

as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. New technologies 

have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring 

funds directly without the assistance of banks. New products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. The process of eliminating banks 

as intermediaries, known as &#8220;disintermediation,&#8221; could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer loans and deposits and related income generated from those products. 

The increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. We may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base, or offering products and services at prices equal to or lower than the prices offered by our competitors. These risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. 

We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. 

Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop a talented and diverse workforce. Competition for talent in our business is strong and requires us to make investments to provide compensation and benefits at market levels. Rising wages, as well as inflation, may cause us to increase these investments. Such investments cause compensation and benefits to represent our greatest expense. 

Additionally, we increasingly compete for talent outside of the core financial services industry. Non-financial institutions may be subject to different pay and hiring expectations than us, which may make it more difficult for us 

to attract qualified teammates. For example, we are required to deliver a substantial portion of the variable compensation of certain teammates in the form of awards tied to our financial performance. The decline in our share 

price we experienced in 2023 could impact our ability to retain those individuals. Similarly, our pay practices are subject to scrutiny by our regulators who may identify deficiencies in the structure of, or issue additional guidance 

on our compensation practices, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive pay to 

these individuals or that place us at a disadvantage to non-financial service industry competitors. 

Finally, while remote work opportunities allow us to hire outside of our traditional footprint, it also increases competition. These factors individually, or collectively, may constrain our ability to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, which could impact our ability to serve our customers and clients. 

Acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. 

Acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company; diversion of our management&#8217;s time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting 

Table of contents 

systems, and technology platforms; increased regulatory scrutiny; and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. As a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions may involve the payment 

of a premium over book and market values. Therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per 

common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. 

VIII. Model Risk 

We rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management, capital planning, and treasury functions. 

We use quantitative models to help provide value input into the management of certain aspects of our business and 

to assist with certain business decisions, including, but not limited to, estimating CECL, measuring the fair value of 

financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates 

and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital 

planning purposes (including during the capital stress testing process). Models are simplified representations of 

real-world relationships. Thus, our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses, 

correlations, and available data. These assumptions provide only reasonable, not absolute, estimates, particularly in 

times of market distress when historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. Additionally, as 

businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. Models can also 

produce inadequate estimates due to errors in computer code, use of unsuitable data during development or input 

into the model during model use, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model&#8217;s design. 

If our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, 

capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. Furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and 

govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may 

realize losses or other lapses. 

We have an enterprise-wide model risk management program designed to accurately identify, measure, report, 

monitor, and manage model risk. The management of model risk includes independent validation and model 

governance, establishing and monitoring model control standards and model risk metrics, and completeness and 

accuracy of the inventory of models. 

Banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their 

businesses. The failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in 

an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. 

Table of contents 

