```
Americans are missing out on billions of dollars in interest by keeping their savings at the biggest U.S. banks.
The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates to their highest level since early 2008, just before a near failure
of the financial system plunged the American economy into recession. Yet the biggest commercial banks are
still paying peanuts to savers.                                         
In theory, savers could have earned $42 billion more in interest in the third quarter if they moved their money
out of the five largest U.S. banks by deposits to the five highest-yield savings accounts -- none of which are
offered by the big banks -- according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of S&P Global Market Intelligence
data.                                                                   
The reality is complicated. The five banks collectively made far less than $42 billion in profit in the third
quarter. And if savers were to move their money en masse, banks offering high-yield accounts could lower
their rates.                                                            
The five banks -- Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., U.S. Bancorp and Wells
Fargo & Co. -- paid an average of 0.4% interest on consumer deposits in savings and money-market
accounts during the quarter, according to S&P Global. The five highest-yielding savings accounts paid an
average of 2.14% during the same period, according to data from Bankrate.com.
The five banks collectively hold about half of all the money kept at U.S. commercial banks in savings and
money-market accounts tracked by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. That share has held steady despite
the availability of higher rates elsewhere.                             
The $42 billion gap in the third quarter was the largest amount since record-keeping began but will likely be
dwarfed in the fourth quarter because top high-yield savings accounts have raised their interest rates to more
than 3.5%.                                                              
Since the start of 2019, Americans have lost out on at least $291 billion in interest by keeping their savings in
the five biggest banks. That total balloons to $603 billion when going back to 2014, when the FDIC started
tracking consumer deposits in money-market and other savings accounts.  
And U.S. savers have likely missed out on much more than $600 billion because the average rate the five
biggest banks have paid over the past eight years, 0.24%, includes higher-yielding money-market accounts
and some business accounts. Traditional savings accounts paid an average rate of 0.02% at the five largest
banks during that period. The FDIC doesn't separate traditional savings and money-market deposits in its
record-keeping.                                                         
Why haven't savers moved more of their money? Opening a new bank account is time consuming, said Gary
Zimmerman, chief executive of MaxMyInterest, a company that specializes in moving customers' deposits
between the nation's highest-yielding savings accounts. Some customers aren't aware of how much money
they could make by switching, he said, and others just don't care.      
"People don't think critically about financial decisions," Mr. Zimmerman said.
Big banks also serve a lot of depositors with small accounts who may not see the value in making the switch.
A depositor with $1,000 in a typical big-bank savings account would have earned just $20 more for the year
by switching to one of the top high-yield savings accounts.             
People also are willing to pay for convenience and simplicity, said Nathan Stovall, a principal analyst for
financial sector data at S&P Global Market Intelligence.                
Banks refer to customers who shop around for higher savings rates as "hot money," Mr. Stovall said. They
have invested billions of dollars into developing user-friendly technology and consumer-banking services,
but that is still a fraction of what they would have to pay in interest were they to raise rates instead.
"If you can retain customers without having to pay for them, that's the name of the game," Mr. Stovall said.
"You want to attract as many low-cost, stable customers as possible."   
Alicia Gillum has been with Bank of America for 26 years and said she has no interest in searching for a new
bank, even though her savings of more than $100,000 is earning almost no interest.
Her loyalty has earned her Platinum Honors Tier status, which affords her a 0.04% interest rate on her
savings instead of the 0.01% rate the bank pays to customers of its basic savings accounts.
Ms. Gillum, a 45-year-old who works in sales at a healthcare company in Phoenix, said she also gets no-fee
banking services, discounts on mortgage origination fees and reduced interest rates on auto and home-equity
loans. Savings is "on the back burner," she said.                       
"I don't have any kids, I'm not married, and everything is in line," Ms. Gillum said. "I don't think I need to
change anything because I'm not having any issues."                     
David G. Kvendru, a 60-year-old self-employed certified public accountant in San Diego, recently began
moving his money into a high-yield savings account at LendingClub.      
A longtime investor with multiple retirement accounts, rental properties and a healthy brokerage account with
Schwab, he still holds most of his $120,000 in savings at Chase, where he earns 0.01% interest. "I'm old
fashioned. I like to be able to see my money," Mr. Kvendru said. "With brick-and-mortar banks, you have that
feeling that it's not going anywhere."                                  
Americans flush with stimulus payments and enhanced unemployment checks flooded U.S. banks with
deposits earlier in the pandemic. The biggest banks got an outsize share of those deposits.
About $425 billion flowed into money-market and savings accounts at U.S. commercial banks between the
first quarter of 2020 and the third quarter of 2022, according to the FDIC. More than 95% of that went to the
five largest banks.                                                     
But things could be changing. The average rate on money-market and savings accounts at the five largest
banks nearly tripled in the third quarter from where it was in the second. In an October report, Mr. Stovall
wrote that he expected large banks to increase their savings rates more quickly through the end of 2022 and
increase even further in 2023 as the Fed continues to raise U.S. interest rates and banks compete more
aggressively for customers.                                             
JPMorgan's record contrasts with that of Bank of America Corp., which made large loans for buyers of Twitter,
Citrix, Nielsen and others. Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan has consistently sounded an
optimistic note about the U.S. economy, clashing with JPMorgan head Jamie Dimon's gloomier warnings.
The S&P 500 rose sharply on Monday after better-than-expected earnings at Bank of America and news of a
radically revised tax plan in Britain.                                  
Stock markets shot upward on Monday, the latest in a series of wild swings, after several big financial
institutions reported earnings that beat expectations.                  
The big shift in the markets on Monday came after Bank of America, the nation's second-largest bank,
reported quarterly earnings that beat expectations. Also lifting sentiment was news from Britain that Prime
Minister Liz Truss's tax plan, which had rattled markets, would be reversed.
Bank of America pointed to continued strength in consumer spending, echoing the earnings of other big
banks at the end of last week. Its shares rose 6 percent. Charles Schwab and the Bank of New York Mellon
also reported better-than-expected earnings.                            
