 

Risk Factors (Item 1A) 

The following is a change to the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Bancorp&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 as updated by the Bancorp&#8217;s subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q: 

Recent bank failures have created significant market volatility and regulatory uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 

In response to recent bank failures, the United States government, particularly the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FDIC and/or the U.S. Congress, is expected to adopt a variety of measures and new regulations designed to strengthen capital and liquidity standards and otherwise restore confidence in financial institutions. These reforms are expected to modify liquidity, long-term debt, and capital requirements and enhance existing stress testing frameworks as well as include special assessments to recover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. 

Even without revisions to the regulatory framework, an enhanced level of scrutiny and escalation from our regulators could negatively impact our business activities as our regulators perform reviews of, among other things, our liquidity, capital, stress testing and risk management programs and may require us to enhance our liquidity position and take other steps regarding risk management. Under applicable banking laws such regulatory actions may not be disclosed to the public. 

These actions could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. They could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. 

In the current environment, we may also experience deposit volatility as customers react to adverse events impacting the banking industry in general or other specific institutions. As deposits remain our primary source of funding, we may be unable to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments, including commitments to depositors withdrawing funds, or be required to raise deposit interest rates which would adversely impact our net interest margin. Our failure to effectively manage and maintain adequate liquidity to satisfy our commitments would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

