 Item 1. Business 

General Corporate Overview 

The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) is a savings and loan holding company. CSC engages, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Schwab or the Company), in wealth management, securities brokerage, banking, asset management, custody, and financial advisory services. At December 31, 2022, Schwab had $7.05 trillion in client assets, 33.8 million active brokerage accounts, 2.4 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 1.7 million banking accounts. 

Principal business subsidiaries of CSC include the following: 

&#8226; Charles Schwab &#38; Co., Inc. (CS&#38;Co), incorporated in 1971, a securities broker-dealer; 

&#8226; TD Ameritrade, Inc., an introducing securities broker-dealer; 

&#8226; TD Ameritrade Clearing, Inc. (TDAC), a securities broker-dealer that provides trade execution and clearing services to TD Ameritrade, Inc.; 

&#8226; Charles Schwab Bank, SSB (CSB), our principal banking entity; and 

&#8226; Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab&#8217;s proprietary mutual funds (Schwab Funds &#174; ) and for Schwab&#8217;s exchange-traded funds (Schwab ETFs &#8482; ). 

Unless otherwise indicated, the terms &#8220;Schwab,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; mean CSC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Schwab provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage, investment advisory, and banking and trust services to individual investors, and retirement plan services, as well as other corporate brokerage services, to businesses and their employees. The Advisor Services segment provides custodial, trading, banking and trust, and support services, as well as retirement business services, to independent registered investment advisors (RIAs), independent retirement advisors, and recordkeepers. These services are further described in the segment discussion below. 

Effective January 1, 2021, CSC changed the designation of its corporate headquarters from San Francisco, California to Westlake, Texas. The Company maintains a nationwide presence across a network of branches and operations centers, as well as several international locations, and our Westlake location provides a centrally located hub for the Company. 

Business Strategy and Competitive Environment 

Schwab was founded on the belief that all Americans deserve access to a better investing experience. Although much has changed in the intervening years, our purpose remains clear &#8211; to champion every client&#8217;s goals with passion and integrity. Guided by this purpose and our vision of creating the most trusted leader in investment services, management has adopted a strategy described as &#8220;Through Clients&#8217; Eyes.&#8221; 

This strategy emphasizes placing clients&#8217; perspectives, needs, and desires at the forefront. Because investing plays a fundamental role in building financial security, we strive to deliver a better investing experience for our clients &#8211; individual investors and the people and institutions who serve them &#8211; by disrupting longstanding industry practices on their behalf and providing superior service. We also aim to offer a broad range of products and solutions to meet client needs with a focus on transparency, value, and trust. In addition, management works to couple Schwab&#8217;s scale and resources with ongoing expense discipline to keep costs low and ensure that products and solutions are affordable as well as responsive to client needs. In combination, these are the key elements of our &#8220;no trade-offs&#8221; approach to serving investors. We believe that following this strategy is the best way to maximize our market valuation and stockholder returns over time. 

Management estimates that investable wealth in the United States (U.S.) (consisting of assets in defined contribution, retail wealth management and brokerage, and registered investment advisor channels, along with bank deposits) currently exceeds $60 trillion, which means the Company&#8217;s $7.05 trillion in client assets leaves substantial opportunity for growth. Our strategy is based on the principle that developing trusted relationships will translate into more assets from both new and existing clients, ultimately driving more revenue, and along with expense discipline and thoughtful capital management, will generate earnings growth and build long-term stockholder value. 

- 1 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Within Investor Services, our competition in serving individual investors spans brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks, trust companies, financial technology companies, and retirement service providers. In the Advisor Services arena, we compete with institutional custodians, wirehouses, regional and independent broker-dealers, banks, and trust companies. 

Across both segments, our key competitive advantages are: 

&#8226; Scale and Size of the Business &#8211; As one of the largest investment services firms in the U.S., we are able to spread operating costs and amortize new investments over a large base of clients, and harness the resources to evolve capabilities to meet client needs. 

&#8226; Operating Efficiency &#8211; Coupled with scale, our operating efficiency and sharing of infrastructure across different businesses creates a cost advantage that enables us to competitively price products and services while profitably serving clients of various sizes across multiple channels. 

&#8226; Operating Structure &#8211; Providing bank and asset management services to broker-dealer clients helps serve a wider array of needs, thereby deepening relationships, enhancing the stability of client assets, and enabling diversified revenue streams. 

&#8226; Brand and Corporate Reputation &#8211; In an industry dependent on trust, Schwab&#8217;s reputation and brand across multiple constituents enable us to attract clients and employees while credibly introducing new products to the market. 

&#8226; Service Culture &#8211; Delivering a great client experience earns the trust and loyalty of clients and increases the likelihood that those clients will refer others. 

&#8226; Willingness to Disrupt &#8211; Management&#8217;s willingness to challenge the status quo, including our own business practices, to benefit clients fosters innovation and continuous improvement, which helps to attract more clients and assets. 

Business and Asset Acquisitions 

Acquisition of TD Ameritrade 

Effective October 6, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation (TDA Holding) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively referred to as &#8220;TD Ameritrade&#8221; or &#8220;TDA&#8221;). TD Ameritrade provides securities brokerage services, including trade execution, clearing services, and margin lending; and futures and foreign exchange trade execution services. TD Ameritrade serves individual retail investors and RIAs predominantly through the Internet, a national branch network, and relationships with RIAs. TD Ameritrade&#8217;s sources of net revenues primarily consist of trading revenue, net interest revenue, bank deposit account fees, and asset management and administration fees. 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s trading revenue includes commissions earned on trades of certain securities and derivatives, as well as order flow revenue. 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s net interest revenue is primarily generated through margin lending, securities lending, and segregated and operating cash and investments. Interest-bearing liabilities primarily consist of payables to brokerage clients and short-term borrowings. 

&#8226; Bank deposit account fees are earned primarily through an insured deposit account agreement with TD Bank USA, National Association and TD Bank, National Association (together, the TD Depository Institutions) described below. 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s asset management and administration fees includes revenue earned on client assets invested in money market funds, other mutual funds, and certain investment programs. Asset management and administration fees also include referral and asset-based program fees on client assets managed by independent RIAs utilizing TDA&#8217;s trading and investing platforms. 

Integration Overview 

The acquisition of TD Ameritrade supports the Company&#8217;s ongoing efforts to enhance the client experience, to provide deeper resources for individual investors and RIAs including more robust trading capabilities, and to continue to improve our operating efficiency. At the time the acquisition closed, TDA had approximately $1.6 trillion in client assets and approximately 14.5 million brokerage accounts. We continue to combine the respective strengths of Schwab and TD Ameritrade and invest in enhanced client experience capabilities to further our financial success for the benefit of clients, employees, and stockholders. 

Based on our current integration plans, the Company expects to complete most client transitions from TD Ameritrade to Schwab across multiple groups over the course of 2023, with the transition of a small client group in the first half of 2024. The first transition of client accounts was completed in February 2023. The Company has made significant progress in its efforts to reduce overlapping or redundant roles across the two firms and has largely completed the rationalization of CS&#38;Co and TD Ameritrade, 

- 2 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Inc. branch locations. Integration activities such as preparation for client transitions and selective role reductions are expected to continue through the remaining integration process. CS&#38;Co, as well as TD Ameritrade, Inc. and TDAC, will continue to operate as separate broker-dealers to serve their respective clients while integration work continues. 

The Company is generally adopting Schwab platforms and systems, though we&#8217;re leveraging certain material advantages in TD Ameritrade&#8217;s platforms, as exemplified by our retention of TD Ameritrade&#8217;s thinkorswim &#174; and thinkpipes &#174; trading platforms, education, and tools into our offerings for retail and RIA clients. We are also retaining TD Ameritrade Institutional&#8217;s customizable portfolio rebalancing solution, iRebal &#174; , as part of our offering for independent advisor clients. 

IDA Agreement 

Concurrently with the execution of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 24, 2019, as amended (the Merger Agreement), CSC entered into an amended and restated insured deposit account agreement with the TD Depository Institutions (the IDA agreement). In accordance with the IDA agreement, which became effective October 6, 2020, cash held in eligible brokerage client accounts is swept off-balance sheet to deposit accounts at the TD Depository Institutions. Schwab provides recordkeeping and support services to the TD Depository Institutions with respect to the deposit accounts for which Schwab receives an aggregate monthly fee. Under the IDA agreement, the service fee on client cash deposits held at the TD Depository Institutions was reduced, relative to TD Ameritrade&#8217;s agreement prior to acquisition, by 40%, from 25 basis points to 15 basis points for the life of the agreement, which applies across all designated fixed and floating IDA balances. 

See &#8220;Part II &#8211; Item 8 &#8211; Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8211; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; (Item 8) &#8211; Note 3 for more information on the TD Ameritrade acquisition. See also &#8220;Part II &#8211; Item 7 &#8211; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) &#8211; Capital Management&#8221; and Item 8 &#8211; Note 15 for additional information on the IDA agreement. 

Acquisition of Assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company and Other Acquisitions 

On May 26, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of the assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company (USAA-IMCO). Along with the asset purchase agreement, the companies entered into a long-term referral agreement that makes Schwab the exclusive provider of wealth management and investment brokerage services for USAA members. The USAA-IMCO acquisition has added scale to the Company&#8217;s operations through the addition of 1.1 million brokerage and managed portfolio accounts with approximately $80 billion in client assets at the acquisition date. The transaction also provides Schwab the opportunity to further expand our client base by serving USAA&#8217;s members through the long-term referral agreement. See Item 8 &#8211; Note 3 for more information on the USAA-IMCO acquisition. 

During 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of technology and intellectual property of Motif, a financial technology company. The Motif assets are helping us build on our existing capabilities and helped accelerate our development of thematic and direct index investing for Schwab&#8217;s retail investors and RIA clients. Also during 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of Wasmer, Schroeder &#38; Company, LLC (Wasmer Schroeder), which added established strategies and new separately managed account offerings to our fixed income lineup. 

Products and Services 

Schwab offers a broad range of products and services through intuitive end-to-end solutions, including robust digital capabilities, to address our clients&#8217; varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these offerings include the following: 

&#8226; Brokerage &#8211; an array of full-feature brokerage accounts with equity and fixed income trading, margin lending, options trading, futures and forex trading, and cash management capabilities including certificates of deposit; 

&#8226; Mutual funds &#8211; third-party mutual funds through the Mutual Fund Marketplace &#174; , including no-transaction-fee (NTF) mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource &#174; service, which also includes proprietary mutual funds, plus mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers; 

&#8226; Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) &#8211; an extensive offering of ETFs, including both proprietary and third-party ETFs; 

&#8226; Advice solutions &#8211; managed portfolios of both proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs, separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, specialized planning, and full-time portfolio management; 

&#8226; Banking &#8211; checking and savings accounts, first lien residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and pledged asset lines (PALs); and 

&#8226; Trust &#8211; trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services. 

- 3 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

These investing products and services are made available through two business segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. Schwab&#8217;s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the reportable segments, based on their respective levels of client assets and activity. Revenue is attributable to a reportable segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Item 8 &#8211; Note 2. 

Investor Services 

Charles Schwab initially founded the Company nearly 50 years ago to provide individual investors with access to the financial markets at a highly competitive cost. The Company has expanded offerings over time in response to client needs, aiming to provide a compelling and often disruptive solution in the marketplace. The Investor Services segment includes the following business units: Retail Investor; Workplace Financial Services, which includes Stock Plan Services, Retirement Plan Services, and Designated Brokerage Services (formerly included in the Compliance Solutions business unit, a portion of which was sold to a third-party in 2022); Mutual Fund Clearing Services; and Off-Platform Sales. 

Through the Retail Investor business unit, we offer individual investors access to a broad set of products, tools, education, trading, and advisory solutions. We provide advice and guidance through various relationship models. And we offer award-winning and 24/7 service to all our clients, regardless of asset levels, via a multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephone, and branch support. 

We believe in the power of investing and the importance of planning in helping clients achieve their financial goals. At the core of our offer is our broad set of relationship models that help personalize the investing journey for our clients and offer them the choice of where, when, and how they do business with us. Financial Consultants, Active Trader Financial Consultants, and Wealth Consultants in Schwab&#8217;s branches and regional centers focus on building client relationships. We also have a range of roles to support clients with a broad set of specialized needs, including financial planning, managed investing, estate management, equity compensation and lending. Additionally, we have teams focused on supporting the advice and education needs of all our clients irrespective of asset levels at Schwab. 

Our advisory solutions span a broad range of discretionary and non-discretionary choices, with minimum investments starting as low as $5,000, making it accessible to a broad set of investors. Our premier advisory solution, Schwab Wealth Advisory&#8482; (formerly known as Schwab Private Client&#8482;), features a personal advice relationship with a dedicated Wealth Advisor, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution. We also offer referrals to an independent RIA in the Schwab Advisor Network &#174; . These RIAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions. For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, Schwab offers several alternatives. We provide investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed Portfolios&#8482; and the Windhaven Investment Management Strategies &#174; , or equity securities and ETFs through the ThomasPartners Investment Management &#174; Strategies. Through our acquisition of Wasmer Schroeder in 2020, more than 20 fixed income strategies and separately managed account offerings have been made available to retail clients beginning in 2021, including two positive impact strategies and a multi-sector income strategy. The positive impact strategies utilize socially responsible investing, or a general investing strategy that considers not only traditional measures of risk and return, but environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) factors as well. We also refer investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account &#8482; program. Schwab Intelligent Portfolios &#174; , available since 2015, is for clients who are looking to have their assets professionally managed via a fully automated online investment advisory service. Schwab Intelligent Portfolios Premium &#174; , a hybrid advisory service, offers clients an advisory service which combines unlimited guidance provided by a C ERTIFIED F INANCIAL P LANNER &#8482; and our robo-advice technology to make financial and investment planning more accessible to investors. Schwab Intelligent Income &#174; is a low-cost solution designed to offer a simple, modern way to generate income from existing investment portfolios. 

Further, given our belief in the importance of financial planning, we offer a broad set of planning capabilities addressing a variety of planning needs. Our solutions include simple, free digital retirement calculators, our complimentary digital Schwab Plan &#8482; available to all Schwab clients, as well as more complex planning solutions that are delivered by a Schwab representative who takes into account a client&#8217;s personal and financial goals to build a tailored financial plan. 

To meet the specific needs of trading clients, Schwab offers integrated web-, mobile-, and software-based trading platforms, real-time market data, options trading, premium research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management tools, and dedicated service support. For example, clients that trade more actively can 

- 4 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities &#8211; including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists, and integrated product offerings. TD Ameritrade offers clients the robust thinkorswim &#174; suite of trading platforms designed for the specialized needs of trading clients, content to help clients build knowledge through multiple education options, financial news programming and market insights, in-platform chat functionality that allows trading clients to share ideas, and a full complement of trading products that includes futures and forex. 

For U.S. clients wishing to invest in foreign equities, Schwab offers a suite of global investing capabilities, including online access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, Schwab serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. 

We also offer clients a range of self-service education and support tools, providing quick and efficient access to a broad lineup of information, research, tools, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. Educational tools include online and in-person workshops, live and on-demand webcasts, podcasts, interactive courses, and online information about investing. In 2022, we re-launched in-person events to engage with retail and institutional clients after maintaining virtual events during the unprecedented environment seen in 2020 and 2021. Additionally, we provide various online research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of analysis tools available to clients, Schwab Equity Ratings &#174; is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings International &#174; , an international ranking methodology, covers stocks of approximately 4,000 foreign companies. Another example of expanding access to investing includes Schwab Stock Slices&#8482;, a service which enables investors to purchase a single stock slice, or up to 30 different stock slices at once, from the S&#38;P 500 &#174; , commission-free through our online channels. 

We also offer equity compensation plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans, stock options, restricted stock, performance shares, stock appreciation rights, and a full range of participant support services through our Stock Plan Services business unit. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking, and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. 

Retirement Plan Services offers a bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides retirement plan sponsors with extensive investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Retirement plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. In addition to an open architecture investment platform, we offer access to low cost index mutual funds and ETFs. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of bundled offerings of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts, profit sharing, defined benefit plans, non-qualified plans, and Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans administered by Retirement Business Services within our Advisor Services segment. 

Lastly, Mutual Fund Clearing Services provides open-end mutual fund trading, settlement, and related transactional services to banks, brokerage firms, and trust companies, and Off-Platform Sales offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and collective trust funds (CTFs) outside the Company and not on the Schwab platform. They are included within the Investor Services segment given their leveraging of the products and services offered to individual investors. 

Advisor Services 

More than thirty years ago, Schwab supported a small group of entrepreneurial advisors who challenged the industry by creating independent firms. Through the Advisor Services segment, Schwab has become one of the largest providers of custodial, trading, banking, and support services to RIAs and their clients. We also provide retirement business services to independent retirement advisors and recordkeepers. Management believes that we can maintain our market position primarily through the efforts of our sales, support, technology, and business consulting service teams, which are dedicated to helping RIAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, we utilize technology to provide RIAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients&#8217; assets easily and efficiently. Advisor Services sponsors and hosts a variety of national, regional, local, and virtual events designed to help RIAs of all sizes and complexities identify and implement better ways to expand and efficiently manage their practices. 

RIAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for RIAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including viewing and managing client account information and accessing news and market 

- 5 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

information. The website provides account servicing capabilities for RIAs, including account opening, money movement, transfer of assets, trading, checking status, and communicating with our service team. The site provides multi-year archiving of statements, trade confirms, and tax reports, along with document search capabilities. We also provide access to integrations with third-party platforms, which support a variety of advisor needs including client relationship management, portfolio management systems, trade order management, and financial planning. As an example, we offer Schwab Advisor Portfolio Connect &#174; , a simplified portfolio management solution that is available free of charge to advisors to manage Schwab accounts. It delivers core capabilities and features through an intuitive modern experience, without the need to download and reconcile data. 

The Advisor Services website also provides interactive tools, educational content, and thought leadership for advisors turning independent. We offer a variety of services to help RIAs grow and manage their practices, including business, technology, and operations consulting on a range of topics critical to an RIA&#8217;s success, as well as an annual RIA benchmarking study to help firms understand key business metrics relative to peers. We also offer an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through a robust prospect consulting offer. To support them throughout their transition, we offer access to business start-up and transition consultants, technology engineers, and dedicated service teams. 

Schwab provides extensive educational materials, programs, and events to RIAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. We conduct industry research on an ongoing basis, and hold a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to RIAs, including business strategies and best practices. Schwab sponsors and hosts the annual IMPACT &#174; conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, RIAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights, as well as a multitude of smaller events across the country each year. 

RIAs and their clients have access to our broad range of products and services, including individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, fixed income products, managed accounts, cash products, bank lending, and trust services. By functioning as the custodian, Schwab earns revenue associated with the underlying client assets, predominantly through net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. In this capacity, we do not charge the RIA or end client a custody fee. 

For RIAs on the TD Ameritrade Institutional platform, TD Ameritrade&#8217;s thinkpipes &#174; trading platform offers a multitude of features, including real-time charting and efficient trading and allocation. The Company is working to integrate thinkpipes into its ongoing offerings as well as TD Ameritrade Institutional&#8217;s customizable portfolio rebalancing solution, iRebal &#174; , as part of our offering for RIA clients. 

The Advisor Services segment also includes the Retirement Business Services business unit. Retirement Business Services provides trust, custody, and retirement business services to independent retirement plan advisors and independent recordkeepers. Retirement plan assets are held at Charles Schwab Trust Bank (Trust Bank) or trusteed by a separate, independent trustee. The Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with our investment, technology, trust, and custodial services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans. 

Sources of Net Revenues 

Schwab&#8217;s largest sources of net revenues are net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, trading revenue, and bank deposit account fees. These revenue streams are supported by the combination of our bank, broker-dealer, and asset management operating subsidiaries, each of which brings specific capabilities that enable us to provide clients with the products and services they are seeking. 

Net interest revenue is the difference between interest generated on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources. Schwab&#8217;s primary funding source for interest-earning assets is uninvested client cash balances held on our balance sheet as part of clients&#8217; overall relationship with the Company. Schwab&#8217;s interest-earning assets are primarily comprised of high-quality fixed income securities, margin loans, and bank loans. 

Asset management and administration fees are primarily earned from proprietary money market mutual funds, proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs, and fee-based advisory solutions. 

Trading revenue includes commissions earned for executing trades for clients in certain individual equities, options, futures, fixed income securities, and certain third-party mutual funds and ETFs; order flow revenue; and principal transaction revenue earned primarily from actions to support client trading in fixed income securities. 

- 6 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Bank deposit account fees are primarily recognized pursuant to the Company&#8217;s IDA agreement with the TD Depository Institutions. Under this agreement, uninvested cash within eligible brokerage client accounts is swept off-balance sheet to deposit accounts at the TD Depository Institutions. Schwab provides recordkeeping and support services to the TD Depository Institutions for bank deposit account fees. 

Regulation 

As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, Schwab is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). We are also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which we operate. These regulations affect our business operations and impose capital, client protection, and market conduct requirements. 

Holding Company and Bank Regulation 

CSC is a savings and loan holding company and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). On March 16, 2021, CSC&#8217;s declaration electing to be treated as a Financial Holding Company (FHC) was deemed effective by the Federal Reserve. In addition to the activities that a savings and loan holding company that has not elected to be treated as an FHC is permitted to conduct, the Company may now also engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity (FHC Activities), including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, various insurance underwriting activities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies. 

The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit an FHC&#8217;s ability to conduct otherwise permissible FHC Activities if the FHC or any of its depository institution subsidiaries ceases to meet the applicable eligibility requirements, including requirements that the FHC and each of its depository institution subsidiaries maintain their status as &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed.&#8221; If the Federal Reserve finds that an FHC fails to meet these requirements, the FHC and its subsidiaries may not commence any new FHC Activity, either de novo or through an acquisition, without prior Federal Reserve approval. The Federal Reserve may also impose any additional limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of the FHC or any of its subsidiaries as it deems appropriate. If the FHC still fails to satisfy the applicable eligibility requirements 180 days after the Federal Reserve&#8217;s finding, the agency may require divestiture of all of the FHC&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries or, alternatively, the FHC may elect to cease all of its FHC Activities. In addition, if any depository institution controlled by an FHC fails to maintain at least a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), the FHC and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in additional FHC Activities. As a result of our election to be treated as an FHC and the election of our depository institution subsidiaries to be deemed savings associations under the Home Owners&#8217; Loan Act (HOLA), a statutory prohibition limits those subsidiaries from making loans or other extensions of credit to any affiliate unless that affiliate engages, directly or indirectly, only in activities permissible under section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act (BHC Act). 

CSC&#8217;s three depository institution subsidiaries are CSB, CSC&#8217;s principal depository institution subsidiary, Charles Schwab Premier Bank, SSB (CSPB), and Trust Bank. On March 20, 2020, CSB and CSPB converted from federal savings associations headquartered in Henderson, Nevada to Texas-chartered savings banks headquartered in Westlake, Texas. Trust Bank is a Nevada-chartered savings bank. Effective September 30, 2022, Trust Bank relocated its main office to Westlake, Texas and became a member of the Federal Reserve system. CSB and CSPB are currently regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve, the Texas Department of Savings and Mortgage Lending (TDSML), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Trust Bank is currently regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve, the Nevada Financial Institutions Division, the CFPB, and the FDIC. CSC, CSB, CSPB, and Trust Bank are also subject to regulation and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws. 

This regulatory framework is designed to protect depositors and consumers, the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, and the stability of the banking system as a whole. This framework affects the activities and investments of CSC and its subsidiaries and gives the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies. Below is a discussion of significant regulations. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Framework 

Banking organizations are subject to the regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the FDIC. In addition to minimum risk-based capital requirements, banking organizations must hold additional capital, referred to as buffers, to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

- 7 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

The banking regulators have established four risk-based categories for determining the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to large U.S. banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets based on their total assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. CSC is generally subject to the requirements under Category III based on its total consolidated assets of between $250 billion and less than $700 billion and having less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity. If the average of our total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters is $700 billion or more, or the average of our cross-jurisdictional activity for the four most recent calendar quarters is $75 billion or more, we will move into Category II. As of December 31, 2022, CSC had total consolidated assets of approximately $552 billion and cross-jurisdictional activity of approximately $29 billion. 

Capital requirements for Category III banking organizations include the generally applicable risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratio requirements (the &#8220;standardized approach&#8221; framework), the minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, which is currently 0%, and the stress capital buffer. As discussed below, starting in 2022, CSC, as a large savings and loan holding company became subject to the stress capital buffer requirement, which applies to risk-based capital ratios (CET1, Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital). Under the revised capital requirements, Category III organizations are not subject to the &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; regulatory capital framework and are permitted to opt out of including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in their regulatory capital calculations. CSC made this opt out election, and commencing with the first quarter of 2020, excludes AOCI from its regulatory capital. Category II organizations are not permitted to opt out of including AOCI in their regulatory capital calculations and have additional requirements for calculating risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets. 

As revised by the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules, Category III banking organizations with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to a reduced liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) rule requiring them to hold high quality liquid assets (HQLA) in an amount equal to at least 85% of their projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated on each business day. If an institution&#8217;s average weighted short-term wholesale funding over the four most recent quarters is $75 billion or more, it will be required to comply with the full LCR rule and hold HQLA in an amount equal to 100% of its projected 30-day net cash outflows and will also be subject to daily (instead of monthly) liquidity reporting. We exceeded the $75 billion threshold as of the quarter ended March 31, 2021, and became subject to daily liquidity reporting on July 1, 2021, and the full LCR rule on October 1, 2021. 

In October 2020, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC jointly adopted a final net stable funding ratio (NSFR) rule to strengthen the resilience of large bank and savings and loan holding companies by requiring them to maintain a minimum level of stable funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the holding company&#8217;s assets, commitments, and derivative exposures over a one-year time horizon. The requirement is expressed as a ratio of a banking entity&#8217;s available stable funding (ASF) to its required stable funding (RSF). Category III banking organizations with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to maintain ASF in an amount at least equal to 85% of its RSF on an ongoing, daily basis. The final NSFR rule became effective on July 1, 2021, and banking entities subject to the rule will be required to publicly disclose their quarterly NSFRs on a semi-annual basis beginning with the first and second quarters of 2023. As a result of our average weighted short-term wholesale funding exceeding the $75 billion threshold, we became subject to daily reporting of the NSFR to the Federal Reserve on July 1, 2021, and became subject to the full (100%) NSFR on October 1, 2021. 

Certain banking organizations with trading assets and trading liabilities above certain thresholds or greater than a certain percent of total assets are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect a measure of market risk of their trading activities, perform calculations to measure market risk, including back-testing, and make regular quantitative and qualitative public disclosures. CSC recently became subject to the rule and the related Market Risk Rule required disclosures . CSC began incorporating market risk capital for the period ending December 31, 2022. While CSC is now required to make adjustments to its risk-weighted assets related to de minimis positions, those adjustments are not expected to significantly impact our risk-based capital ratios nor have a current impact on CSC&#8217;s activities. 

Capital Stress Testing 

In its final enhanced prudential standards rules, the Federal Reserve revised the capital stress testing regime applicable to savings and loan holding companies and state member banks. Under the Federal Reserve capital stress testing rules, savings and loan holding companies that are Category III banking organizations and state member banks with total consolidated assets over $250 billion are required to disclose the results of company-run stress tests in even-numbered years. In 2022, CSC and CSB 

- 8 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

conducted company-run stress tests, reported the results of their stress testing to the Federal Reserve, and published a summary of their stress test results. 

The Federal Reserve also made Category III savings and loan holding companies subject to an annual supervisory stress testing requirement in which the Federal Reserve conducts its own stress testing analysis to evaluate the ability of a holding company to absorb losses in specified economic and financial conditions over a nine-quarter planning horizon using such analytical techniques as the agency determines are appropriate. This supervisory stress testing requirement went into effect for CSC beginning with the 2022 stress testing cycle. 

In January 2021, the Federal Reserve adopted a new rule making savings and loan holding companies with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, including CSC, subject to an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, which requires submission of an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. The rule also imposes a stress capital buffer requirement, floored at 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets, that replaced CSC&#8217;s 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. The capital plan requirement became effective for CSC with the 2022 CCAR cycle, and CSC&#8217;s initial stress capital buffer requirement was based on its 2022 CCAR stress testing results as described below. 

Results of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s 2022 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 

In June 2022, the Company received the results of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s 2022 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. These results included the Federal Reserve&#8217;s estimate of CSC&#8217;s minimum capital ratios under the supervisory severely adverse scenario for the nine-quarter horizon beginning December 31, 2021 and ending March 31, 2024. Based on these results, CSC&#8217;s calculated stress capital buffer was below the 2.5% minimum, resulting in a stress capital buffer at the 2.5% floor. This 2.5% stress capital buffer became applicable on October 1, 2022. See Item 1 &#8211; Note 23 for additional information regarding our capital requirements. 

Additional Enhanced Prudential Standards 

In addition to the revisions to the capital stress testing regime discussed above, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards rules also extended the applicability of certain additional enhanced prudential standards to large savings and loan holding companies, with the specific requirements tailored based on the same four-category framework utilized in the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules. These additional enhanced prudential standards, which have been applicable to large U.S. bank holding companies under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), include: risk management and risk committee requirements; liquidity risk management, stress testing, and buffer requirements; and single counterparty credit limits. CSC was required to comply with the new risk management and risk committee requirements, as well as the new liquidity risk-management, stress testing, and buffer requirements commencing on January 1, 2021. The single counterparty credit limits went into effect for CSC on January 1, 2022. 

Source of Strength 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve&#8217;s long-held position that a depository institution holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary depository institutions, the so-called &#8220;source of strength doctrine.&#8221; In effect, the holding company may be compelled to commit resources to support the subsidiary depository institution in the event the subsidiary is in financial distress. 

Insured Depository Institution Resolution Plans 

The FDIC requires insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure (resolution plans or so-called &#8220;living wills&#8221;) under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Under this requirement, CSB has been required to file with the FDIC a periodic resolution plan demonstrating how the bank could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able to: ensure that the bank&#8217;s depositors receive access to their deposits within one business day; maximize the net present value of the bank&#8217;s assets when disposed of; and minimize losses incurred by the bank&#8217;s creditors. In April 2019, the FDIC imposed a moratorium on resolution plan submissions. In January 2021, the FDIC announced that it would resume requiring resolution plan submissions for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and in June 2021, the FDIC announced a modified resolution plan approach for these insured depository institutions which extends the submission frequency to a three-year cycle, streamlines content requirements, and places enhanced emphasis on engagement with firms. CSB submitted a resolution plan in November 2022. 

- 9 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to any separate holding company resolution plan requirement. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC uses a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that, for large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets, uses a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution&#8217;s regulatory ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. 

FDIC Assessment Rate Increase 

In October 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase the initial base deposit insurance assessment rates by two basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The FDIC has stated that this change is intended to raise the FDIC&#8217;s DIF reserve ratio to the minimum threshold within the FDIC&#8217;s established DIF restoration plan, and will remain in effect until the DIF reserve ratio meets the FDIC&#8217;s long-term goal of 2%. A two basis point increase in the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate may result in an increase, dependent on average asset levels, in regulatory fees and assessments, as well as a corresponding decrease in bank deposit account fee revenue based on IDA balances. 

Brokered Deposits 

In December 2020, the FDIC adopted amendments to its brokered deposits rule to establish a new framework for determining whether deposits made through arrangements between third parties and depository institutions constitute brokered deposits and more specifically to clarify the circumstances under which broker-dealers that place deposits with depository institutions through brokerage sweep arrangements such as CS&#38;Co and TDAC qualify for the &#8220;primary purpose exception&#8221; from the definition of a deposit broker. Under the new framework, the FDIC established a new &#8220;25 percent&#8221; business relationship designated exception where a broker-dealer or other third-party may qualify for the primary purpose exception by filing a notice with the FDIC indicating that less than 25 percent of its customer assets under administration for a particular business line are placed at depository institutions. The FDIC&#8217;s brokered deposit rule amendments became effective on April 1, 2021. Under the new framework, funds swept by our broker-dealer subsidiaries to CSB and Schwab&#8217;s other depository institution subsidiaries continue to qualify for the primary purpose exception. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires the primary federal bank regulatory agency for each of Schwab&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries to assess the subsidiary&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings (&#8220;outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;needs to improve,&#8221; or &#8220;substantial noncompliance&#8221;). The failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions or opening branch offices. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority for a wide range of federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority over depository institutions with $10 billion or more in consolidated total assets. 

Volcker Rule 

CSC and its subsidiaries are subject to the Volcker Rule, which generally prohibits proprietary trading or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exemptions, in each case as the applicable terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and the implementing regulations. 

Broker-Dealer, Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), Forex Dealer Member (FDM), and Investment Advisor Regulation 

Our principal broker-dealer subsidiaries, CS&#38;Co, TD Ameritrade, Inc., and TDAC, are each registered as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC or Commission), the fifty states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin 

- 10 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. CS&#38;Co, CSIM, and certain of our other subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Charles Schwab Futures and Forex LLC (CSFF, formerly known as TD Ameritrade Futures &#38; Forex, LLC) is registered as an FCM and FDM with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). 

Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs. Our principal broker-dealers are each members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). In addition, CS&#38;Co is a member of Nasdaq Stock Market, Cboe EDGX and MEMX, and TDAC is a member of NYSE Arca, Nasdaq Stock Market, Cboe EDGX and MEMX. In addition to the SEC, the primary regulators of our principal broker-dealers are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is the primary regulator for CSFF&#8217;s futures, commodities, and forex trading activities. 

The principal purpose of regulating these entities is the protection of clients and securities markets. The regulations cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients&#8217; funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. 

Our principal broker-dealer entities are subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer and it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. 

The Uniform Net Capital Rule prohibits broker-dealers from paying cash dividends, making unsecured advances or loans or repaying subordinated loans if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement. 

In addition to net capital requirements, as a self-clearing broker-dealer, CS&#38;Co, and as a clearing broker-dealer, TDAC, are subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearing houses, such as the Depository Trust &#38; Clearing Corporation and Options Clearing Corporation, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients&#8217; trading activity and market volatility. 

As a result of our operations in countries outside the U.S., we are also subject to rules and regulations issued by certain foreign authorities, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom, the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong, and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) in Singapore. 

Financial Services Regulation 

Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 

CSC and its subsidiaries that conduct financial services activities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires financial institutions to develop and implement programs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with these regulations. The BSA and USA PATRIOT Act include a variety of monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as currency transaction reporting and suspicious activity reporting), as well as identity verification and client due diligence requirements which are intended to detect, report and/or prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition, CSC and various subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 

Human Capital 

We believe that hiring people who share our corporate purpose of helping clients achieve their financial goals is an essential element of executing our &#8220;Through Clients&#8217; Eyes&#8221; strategy, and we seek to attract, retain, and motivate the talent Schwab needs to successfully serve our clients and grow our business. As of December 31, 2022, Schwab had full-time, part-time, and temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis, that represented the equivalent of approximately 35,300 full-time employees. 

Schwab offers a compensation package that rewards both employee and company performance. The package encompasses an array of compensation components in addition to base pay including performance-based incentive pay, equity awards, recognition awards, and a range of health and wellness benefits. We also offer benefits and resources designed to help our employees achieve their financial goals, including a 401(k) plan, an employee stock purchase plan, financial planning 

- 11 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

consultations, and disability and life insurance options. In addition, Schwab offers programs to help with employee career growth including mentorship, development, and leadership programs as well as reimbursement for qualified business-related education and training. We also encourage and empower employees to volunteer in the communities where we live and work, offering paid time off for every employee to volunteer in his or her community. 

With COVID-19 restrictions now eased, Schwab completed its return-to-office plan which entails various in-office and remote work options. The Company&#8217;s flexible work arrangements are designed to balance the importance our employees place on workplace flexibility with the benefits of in-person interactions to train and learn from one another, build human connections, and maintain Schwab&#8217;s culture as we serve our clients. 

We know that through workplace diversity, we gain a wider range of perspectives and experiences, which supports our strategy and helps us better serve our clients. We focus on attracting a diversity of talent by maintaining a strong employer brand and expanding where and how we meet prospective employees. We recruit from underrepresented communities through targeted campus recruiting, scholarship programs, and partnerships with professional organizations. For Schwab employees, we support a number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) which are employee-driven and provide support, leadership development opportunities, and connection to our diverse marketplace. Our ERGs are made up of employees who share characteristics or life experiences and are committed to enhancing diversity and inclusion at Schwab. Additionally, our leaders are explicitly responsible for creating an environment where all people can do their best work, and for fostering the development of high-performance teams that recognize the value of diverse perspectives, skills, and backgrounds. We regularly request feedback from our employees through surveys. 

Available Information 

Schwab files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC filings are available to the public over the internet on the SEC&#8217;s website at https://www.sec.gov . 

On our website, https://www.aboutschwab.com , we post the following filings after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the website also includes the Dodd-Frank Act stress test results, our regulatory capital disclosures based on Basel III, and our quarterly average LCR. 

All such filings are available free of charge either on our website or by request via email ( investor.relations@schwab.com ), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105). 

