 Item 1: Legal Proceedings 

In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the Company establishes an accrued liability for litigation and threatened litigation actions and proceedings when those actions present loss contingencies, which are both probable and estimable. In actions for which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, the Company determines whether it can estimate a loss or range of possible loss. To determine whether a possible loss is estimable, the Company reviews and evaluates its material litigation on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. This review may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on substantive or dispositive motions, and settlement discussions. 

Wintrust Mortgage Wage Payment Matter 

On October 17, 2018, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California against Wintrust Mortgage alleging violation of California wage payment statutes on behalf of herself and all other hourly, non-exempt employees of Wintrust Mortgage in California. Wintrust Mortgage received service of the complaint on November 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the complaint on February 25, 2019. On November 1, 2019, the plaintiff's counsel filed a letter with the California Department of Labor advising that it was initiating an action under California's Private Attorney General Act statute based on the same alleged violations. In November 2019, the parties reached a settlement agreement. The parties executed a settlement agreement and on February 26, 2020, plaintiff moved the court for approval. A hearing on the motion to approve settlement was originally set for June 16, 2020, but the court continued the motion to September 8, 2020. On September 8, 2020, the court requested the parties make certain changes to the settlement agreement that were immaterial to the parties&#8217; settlement terms. The parties revised the settlement agreement consistent with the court's recommendations and submitted the revised settlement agreement to the court for its approval. On January 27, 2021, the court entered its preliminary approval of the settlement. After no class members opted out or objected to the settlement, the court issued its final approval of the settlement on June 17, 2021 and on June 18, 2021, Wintrust Mortgage tendered the settlement amount to the class claims administrator. Payments to class members have been completed and this matter is closed. The Company had reserved an amount for this settlement that is immaterial to its results of operations or financial condition. 

Wintrust Mortgage California PAGA Matter 

On May 24, 2022, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a California Private Attorney General Act (&#8220;PAGA&#8221;) suit, not individually, but as representative of all Wintrust Mortgage&#8217;s California hourly employees, against Wintrust Mortgage in the Superior Court of San Diego County, California. Plaintiff alleges Wintrust Mortgage failed to provide: (i) accurate sick leave accrual and pay; (ii) overtime wages; (iii) accurately itemized wage statements; (iv) meal breaks and meal premiums; (v) timely payment of earned wages; (vi) payment of all earned wages; and (vii) payment of all vested vacation hours. Wintrust Mortgage disputes the validity of Plaintiff&#8217;s claims and believes, to the extent there were defects in complying with California law governing the payment of compensation to Plaintiff, such errors would have been de minimis. Plaintiff also has an arbitration agreement with a collective and class action waiver. We believe plaintiff&#8217;s allegations to be legally and factually meritless and otherwise lack sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Wintrust Mortgage Fair Lending Matter 

On May 25, 2022, a Wintrust Mortgage customer filed a putative class action and asserted individual claims against Wintrust Mortgage and Wintrust Financial Corporation in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Plaintiff alleges that Wintrust Mortgage discriminated against black/African American borrowers and brings class claims under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Sections 1981 and 1982 under Chapter 42 of the United States Code; and the Fair Housing Act of 1968. Plaintiff also asserts individual claims under theories of promissory estoppel, fraudulent inducement, and breach of contract. We vigorously dispute these allegations, believe them to be legally and factually meritless, and otherwise lack sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Other Matters 

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Based on information currently available and upon consultation with counsel, management believes that the eventual outcome of any pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings described above, including our ordinary course litigation, will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations or financial condition for a particular period. 

