 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business and financial results, and the extent to which the pandemic and measures taken in response to the pandemic could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict. 

Global health concerns relating to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have impacted the macroeconomic environment, significantly increased economic uncertainty and reduced economic activity. The pandemic has also caused governmental authorities to implement numerous measures to try to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business limitations and shutdowns. These measures have negatively impacted and may further negatively impact consumer and business payment and spending patterns. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our business, financial condition, capital and results of operations. The extent of these impacts depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, the duration and magnitude of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the virus or treat its impact, the effectiveness of economic stimulus measures in the United States, and how quickly and to what extent economic and operating conditions and consumer and business spending can return to their pre-pandemic levels. As a result, our purchase volume, loan growth and the overall demand for our products and services may be significantly impacted, which could adversely affect our revenue and other results of operations. In addition, we could experience higher credit losses in our loan portfolios and increases in our allowance for credit losses. For example, as a result of the significant uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic we realized a substantial build in our allowance for credit losses for the first quarter of 2020. We could also experience impairments of other financial assets and other negative impacts on our financial position, including possible constraints on liquidity and capital, as well as higher costs of capital. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business and results of operations, which could be material, as a result of the macroeconomic impact and any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. 

The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices and operations, including providing a range of forbearance options to our customers in certain circumstances. We may need to further modify our practices and operations as this event unfolds. In addition, in response to the pandemic, we have temporarily suspended share repurchases and could take other capital actions. We have also implemented work-from-home policies for a vast majority of our employees, and social distancing plans for our employees who are working from Capital One facilities. We have temporarily closed all of our Caf&#233;s and our bank branches where appropriate social distancing could not be implemented. These measures could impair our ability to perform critical functions and may adversely impact our results of operations. We may take further actions as required by government authorities or that we otherwise determine are in the best interests of our customers, employees and business partners. 

Federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities have enacted, and may enact in the future, legislation, regulations and protocols in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including governmental programs intended to provide economic relief to businesses and individuals. Our participation in and execution of any such programs may cause operational, compliance, reputational and credit risks, which could result in litigation, governmental action or other forms of loss. The extent of these impacts, which may be substantial, will depend on the degree of our participation in these programs. There remains significant uncertainty regarding the measures that authorities will enact in the future and the ultimate impact of the legislation, regulations and protocols that have been and will be enacted. Moreover, we expect that the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten many of the other known risks described in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of our 2019 Form 10-K. 

Except as set forth above, we are not aware of any material changes from the risk factors set forth under &#8220; Part I &#8212; Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8221; in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) 

