Market Risk
Market risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or economic value arising from changes in the market value of portfolios, securities, or
other financial instruments. Market risk results from changes in the level, volatility, or correlations among financial market risk factors or prices,
including interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity, and commodity prices.
Effective management of market risk is essential to achieving Truist’s strategic financial objectives. Truist’s most significant market risk exposure is to
interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also results from underlying product liquidity risk, price risk, and volatility risk in Truist’s
business units. Interest rate risk results from differences between the timing of rate changes and the timing of cash flows associated with assets and
liabilities (re-pricing risk); from changing rate relationships among different yield curves affecting bank activities (basis risk); from changing rate
relationships across the spectrum of maturities (yield curve risk); and from interest-related options inherently embedded in bank products (options risk).
The primary objectives of effective market risk management are to minimize adverse effects from changes in market risk factors on net interest income,
net income, and capital, and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. At Truist, market risk management
also includes the enterprise-wide IPV function.
Interest Rate Market Risk
As a financial institution, Truist is exposed to interest rate risk from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet positions. Truist primarily monitors this risk
through two measurement types, (i) net interest income at risk and (ii) economic value of equity, and manages this risk with securities, derivatives, and
broader asset liability management activities.
70 Truist Financial Corporation
Net interest income at risk measures changes in net interest income in alternate interest rate scenarios relative to Truist’s baseline scenario, which
relies on assumptions including expectations of the economy and interest rates – which are influenced by market conditions, new business volume,
pricing, and client behavior. In measuring net interest income at risk, Truist assumes that changes in key factors, such as prepayments and deposit
pricing (betas), largely move in line with those it has experienced in prior rate cycles. However, future behavior of key factors used in this measurement
may vary. Net interest income at risk measurement assumes, when applicable, that U.S. interest rates will not fall below zero.
Truist evaluates a wide range of alternate scenarios including instantaneous and gradual as well as parallel and non-parallel changes in interest rates.
The following table provides additional information on the estimated change to net interest income over the following 12 months for select parallel
alternate scenarios, expressed as a percentage change relative to baseline net interest income.
Table 32: Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis
Dec 31, 2023
Up 200bps gradual change in interest rates (1.46)%
Up 50bps instantaneous change in interest rates (0.36)
Down 50bps instantaneous change in interest rates (0.10)
Down 200bps gradual change in interest rates (0.30)
Estimated changes to net interest income in the previous table assume no change in deposit balances or mix relative to the baseline scenario. In an
increasing rate scenario, rotation from non-interest-bearing into interest bearing deposits would reduce net interest income. Conversely, in a down rate
scenario, rotation from higher yielding to lower yielding deposits would benefit net interest income. Truist performs and monitors sensitivity tests of
deposit and other key assumptions used in interest rate risk.
Economic value of equity measures changes in economic value of Truist’s current balance sheet and off-balance sheet hedges under alternate rate
scenarios relative to starting economic value. Truist uses economic value of equity as a longer-term measure of interest rate risk.
LIBOR Transition
The remaining tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR ceased publication of representative rates on June 30, 2023, with only select tenors receiving a synthetic
publication through September 30, 2024. Truist provided timely notices and information to impacted clients about the transition to new interest rates
post cessation and had minimal use of synthetic LIBOR to support the transition. Most contracts were transitioned to new rates in July and August
2023, in accordance with fallback language. A small number of contracts utilize longer tenor LIBOR rates and will transition by early 2024 (6-month and
12-month LIBOR) based on contractual agreements. Truist has materially completed LIBOR transition efforts, primarily utilizing SOFR replacement
rates, and closed formal project efforts as of September 2023.
Fallback language used to remediate loan agreements was generally consistent with ARRC recommendations and included use of “hardwired fallback”
language, which transitioned loans to a SOFR based rate after June 30, 2023. For a small number of wholesale contracts remaining without fallback
language, Truist leveraged the LIBOR Act and corresponding safe harbor provision to transition these loans to SOFR. Truist’s consumer lending
portfolios included fallback language to transition to SOFR, based on lender discretion and as supported by the LIBOR Act; therefore, these contracts
did not require remediation and also benefit from the safe harbor provisions of the LIBOR Act.
Derivatives that reference LIBOR transitioned to a SOFR-based replacement rate as set forth in the ISDA protocol addressing LIBOR fallbacks
between the Company and its counterparties which have adhered to the protocol, through bilateral amendments between the Company and each of its
counterparties, or as established under the LIBOR Act and rules promulgated thereunder by the FRB. Fallback language used to remediate LIBOR
based derivatives was generally consistent with ISDA publications.
The Company’s preferred securities and the Company’s and Truist Bank’s floating rate notes that reference LIBOR transitioned to a SOFR based rate
utilizing application of the LIBOR Act and the rules promulgated thereunder by the FRB. Truist announced that these securities would move to a 3-
month adjusted Term SOFR in accordance with the LIBOR Act. See “Note 12. Shareholders’ Equity” for information about preferred stock using LIBOR.
Market Risk from Trading Activities
As a financial intermediary, Truist provides its clients access to derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets, which generate market risks.
Trading market risk is managed using a comprehensive risk management approach, which includes measuring risk using VaR, stress testing, and
sensitivity analysis. Risk metrics are monitored against a suite of limits on a daily basis at both the trading desk level and at the aggregate portfolio
level, which is intended to ensure that exposures are in line with Truist’s risk appetite.
Truist Financial Corporation 71
Truist is also subject to risk-based capital guidelines for market risk under the Market Risk Rule.
Covered Trading Positions
Covered positions subject to the Market Risk Rule include trading assets and liabilities, specifically those held for the purpose of short-term resale or
with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements or to lock in arbitrage profits. Truist’s trading portfolio of covered
positions results primarily from market making and underwriting services for the Company’s clients, as well as associated risk mitigating hedging
activity. The trading portfolio, measured in terms of VaR, consists primarily of four sub-portfolios of covered positions: (i) credit trading, (ii) fixed income
securities, (iii) interest rate derivatives, and (iv) equity derivatives. As a market maker across different asset classes, Truist’s trading portfolio also
contains other sub-portfolios, including foreign exchange, loan trading, and commodity derivatives; however, these portfolios do not generate material
trading risk exposures.
Valuation policies and methodologies exist for all trading positions. Additionally, these positions are subject to independent price verification. See “Note
19. Derivative Financial Instruments,” “Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures,” and “Critical Accounting Policies” herein for discussion of valuation policies
and methodologies.
Securitizations
As of December 31, 2023, the aggregate market value of on-balance sheet securitization positions subject to the Market Risk Rule, which were nonagency asset backed securities positions, was $49 million. Consistent with the Market Risk Rule requirements, the Company performs pre-purchase
due diligence on each securitization position to identify the characteristics including, but not limited to, deal structure and the asset quality of the
underlying assets, that materially affect valuation and performance. Securitization positions are subject to Truist’s comprehensive risk management
framework, which includes daily monitoring against a suite of limits. There were no off-balance sheet securitization positions during the reporting period.
Correlation Trading Positions
The trading portfolio of covered positions did not contain any correlation trading positions as of December 31, 2023.
VaR-Based Measures
VaR measures the potential loss of a given position or portfolio of positions at a specified confidence level and time horizon. Truist utilizes a historical
VaR methodology to measure and aggregate risks across its covered trading positions. For risk management purposes, the VaR calculation is based on
a historical simulation approach and measures the potential trading losses using a one-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level. For
Market Risk Rule purposes, the Company calculates VaR using a 10-day holding period and a 99% confidence level. Due to inherent limitations of the
VaR methodology, such as the assumption that past market behavior is indicative of future market performance, VaR is only one of several tools used
to measure and manage market risk. Other tools used to actively manage market risk include stress testing, scenario analysis, and stop loss limits.
The trading portfolio’s VaR profile is influenced by a variety of factors, including the size and composition of the portfolio, market volatility, and the
correlation between different positions. A portfolio of trading positions is typically less risky than the sum of the risk from each of the individual subportfolios, because, under normal market conditions, risk within each category partially offsets the exposure to other risk categories. The following table
summarizes certain VaR-based measures for the 12 months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.
72 Truist Financial Corporation
Table 33: VaR-based Measures
Year Ended December 31,
2023 2022
(Dollars in millions)
10-Day Holding
Period
1-Day Holding
Period
10-Day Holding
Period
1-Day Holding
Period
VaR-based Measures:
Maximum $ 30 $ 14 $ 38 $ 14
Average 17 7 17 5
Minimum 10 4 6 3
Period-end 23 11 20 6
VaR by Risk Class:
Interest Rate Risk 5 6
Credit Spread Risk 2 8
Equity Price Risk 5 1
Foreign Exchange Risk 1 —
Portfolio Diversification (2) (9)
Period-end 11 6
Stressed VaR-based measures
Stressed VaR, another component of market risk capital, is calculated using the same internal models as used for the VaR-based measure. Stressed
VaR is calculated over a ten-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level and employs a historical simulation approach based on a continuous
twelve-month historical window selected to reflect a period of significant financial stress for the Company’s trading portfolio. The following table
summarizes Stressed VaR-based measures:
Table 34: Stressed VaR-based Measures - 10 Day Holding Period
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022
Maximum $ 164 $ 109
Average 76 70
Minimum 25 40
Period-end 79 77
Compared to the prior year, Stressed VaR measures were generally higher, primarily due to higher market making inventory and lower diversification
benefits in 2023.
Specific Risk Measures
Specific risk is a measure of idiosyncratic risk that could result from risk factors other than broad market movements (e.g., default or event risks). The
Market Risk Rule provides fixed risk weights under a standardized measurement method while also allowing a model-based approach, subject to
regulatory approval. Truist utilizes the standardized measurement method to calculate the specific risk component of market risk regulatory capital. As
such, incremental risk capital requirements do not apply.
VaR Model Backtesting
In accordance with the Market Risk Rule, the Company evaluates the accuracy of its VaR model through daily backtesting by comparing aggregate
daily trading gains and losses (excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) from covered positions with the
corresponding daily VaR-based measures generated by the model. As illustrated in the following graph, there were no Company-wide VaR backtesting
exceptions during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. The total number of Company-wide VaR backtesting exceptions over the preceding
twelve months is used to determine the multiplication factor for the VaR-based capital requirement under the Market Risk Rule. The capital
multiplication factor increases from a minimum of three to a maximum of four, depending on the number of exceptions. All Company-wide VaR
backtesting exceptions are thoroughly reviewed in the context of VaR model use and performance. There was no change in the capital multiplication
factor over the preceding twelve months.
Truist Financial Corporation 73
Model Risk Oversight
MRO is responsible for the independent model validation of all decision tools and models including trading market risk models. The validation activities
are conducted in accordance with MRO policy, which incorporates regulatory guidance related to the evaluation of model conceptual soundness,
ongoing monitoring, and outcomes analysis. As part of ongoing monitoring efforts, the performance of all trading risk models are reviewed regularly to
preemptively address emerging developments in financial markets, assess evolving modeling approaches, and identify potential model enhancement.
Stress Testing
The Company uses a comprehensive range of stress testing techniques to help monitor risks across trading desks and to augment standard daily VaR
and other risk limits reporting. The stress testing framework is designed to quantify the impact of extreme, but plausible, stress scenarios that could
lead to large, unexpected losses. Stress tests include simulations for risk factor sensitivities, historical repeats and hypothetical scenarios with varying
liquidity horizons of key risk factors. All trading positions within each applicable market risk category (interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign exchange
rate risk, credit spread risk, and commodity price risk) are included in the Company’s comprehensive stress testing framework. Management reviews
stress testing scenarios on an ongoing basis and makes updates, as necessary, which is intended to ensure that both current and emerging risks are
captured appropriately. Management also utilizes stress analyses to support the Company’s capital adequacy assessment standards. See the “Capital”
section of MD&A for additional discussion of capital adequacy.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from the default, unwillingness or inability of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty
such that an obligation will not be repaid on time and/or in full or the client and/or counterparty will fail to perform on an obligation to the Company or its
affiliates. Credit risk exists in all activities where success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when
Truist funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether on or off-balance
sheet. Credit risk increases when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other instruments the Company or its affiliates holds has
deteriorated.
Truist has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:
• limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;
• establishing a process for credit approval accountability;
• careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market, and collateral risks;
• ongoing servicing and monitoring of individual loans and lending relationships;
• maintaining collections and asset resolution teams;
74 Truist Financial Corporation
• continuous monitoring of the portfolio, concentration and transactional limits, emerging risks, market dynamics and the economy; and
• periodically reevaluating the Company’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.
The following discussion describes the underwriting procedures and overall risk management of Truist’s lending function.
Underwriting Approach
The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk; therefore, proper loan underwriting is critical to Truist’s long-term financial success.
Truist’s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of specific risk-mitigating features that promote credit relationships that
conform to Truist’s risk philosophy. Provided below is a summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan
renewals:
• Cash flow and debt service coverage - cash flow adequacy is a necessary condition of creditworthiness, meaning that loans must either be
clearly supported by a borrower’s cash flow or, if not, must be justified by secondary repayment sources.
• Secondary sources of repayment - alternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they are liquid, can be easily
accessed, and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.
• Value of any underlying collateral - loans are generally secured by the asset being financed. Because an analysis of the primary and secondary
sources of repayment is the most important factor, collateral, unless it is liquid, does not justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower’s
normal cash flows.
• Overall creditworthiness of the client, taking into account the client’s relationships, both past and current, with Truist and other lenders - Truist’s
success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with clients, which involves assessing their financial position and
background.
• Level of equity invested in the transaction - in general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their own funds prior to any
loan advances.
Refer to the “Lending Activities” section in MD&A for a discussion of each loan and lease portfolio.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that (i) Truist will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding (funding
liquidity risk), or (ii) Truist cannot easily monetize assets without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market
disruptions (market liquidity risk). Refer to the “Liquidity” section in MD&A for additional discussion.
Technology Risk
Technology risk is the business risk associated with the use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence, and adoption of information technology
across the Company. Truist has defined and adopted a technology risk framework that provides the foundation for technology risk strategy, program,
and oversight and defines key objectives, operating model components, risk domains, and capabilities to manage this risk.
Cybersecurity risk management and strategy
Like other financial services firms, Truist faces an increasingly complex and evolving cybersecurity threat environment. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
information on risks from cybersecurity threats. We maintain a risk-based cybersecurity framework that is part of our enterprise-wide risk management
framework. It is implemented through people, processes, and technology, whereby we assess, identify, and manage material risks from cybersecurity
threats, and seek to continually adapt our risk mitigation activities accordingly.
Our cybersecurity framework is aligned with industry standards such as those of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council, and is designed to conform to the requirements and guidance from applicable regulatory authorities. In
addition, our cybersecurity framework includes internally and third-party focused capabilities that drive the development and implementation of our data
security strategy, which is designed to reduce cybersecurity risk while enabling Truist’s corporate business objectives. Truist’s cybersecurity strategy is
enabled by Truist’s multilayered defenses, including capabilities that are designed for early and rapid cyber threat identification, detection, protection,
response, and recovery.
Truist Financial Corporation 75
Processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats
As part of our enterprise risk management framework, we have implemented and maintain a program to assess, identify, and manage risks arising from
the cybersecurity threats facing Truist. Truist maintains cybersecurity and information security policies, procedures, and technologies that are designed
to address regulatory requirements and protect our clients’, teammates’ and our own data against unauthorized disclosure, modification, and misuse.
These policies, procedures, and technologies cover a broad range of areas, including: identification of internal and external threats, access control,
data security, protective controls, detection of malicious or unauthorized activity, incident response, and recovery planning.
Truist participates in the federally recognized Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center as a key part of the Company’s cyber threat
intelligence and response programs, as well as other industry organizations and initiatives that promote industry best practices such as harmonized
cybersecurity standards, cyber readiness, and secure consumer financial data sharing. To further mitigate the risks presented by an evolving cyber
threat landscape, Truist provides data protection guidance to clients and promotes data protection awareness and accountability through mandatory
teammate training. Truist conducts scenario-driven test exercises simulating impacts and consequences developed through analysis of real-world
technology incidents as well as known and anticipated cyber threats. These exercises are designed to assess the viability of Truist’s crisis response
and management programs and provide the basis for continuous improvement. Where a potential cybersecurity threat is identified in our environment,
our Cyber Incident Response Team evaluates the potential impact to Truist and coordinates remediation where required. Our Cyber Incident Response
Team also manages significant cyber-specific events, with escalation to executive management and the Board, as appropriate.
Our cybersecurity framework is also designed to help oversee, identify, and mitigate cybersecurity risks associated with our use of third-party service
providers. Following an initial assessment of the level of enterprise risk potentially posed by use of the third-party, the service provider is then subject to
further risk-based assessments on its operational resilience and cybersecurity practices, including disaster recovery and business continuity plans that
specify the time frame to resume activities and recover data. In its agreements with third-party service providers, Truist then requires service providers
to adhere to Truist’s relevant cybersecurity and operational resilience standards, subject to certain exceptions that are managed on a case-by-case
basis.
Our cybersecurity framework is routinely assessed to ensure the effectiveness of key controls through third-party cybersecurity maturity measurements,
technology risk oversight, compliance risk management testing and monitoring, internal audit review, and regulatory oversight.
In addition, Truist continues to strengthen its cross-functional, holistic approach to enterprise resilience by addressing potential amplification of risks
from significant technology, cybersecurity and data incidents. As part of these efforts, Truist is deepening capabilities for both disaster recovery and
restoration, along with the implementation of other resilience measures.
Management’s role in assessing and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats
Truist’s cybersecurity framework is operated and maintained by management, including the CIO, CISO, CRO and CTRO. These senior officers are
responsible for assessing and managing Truist’s cybersecurity risks. Our cybersecurity framework strategy, which is overseen by CISO, is informed by
various risk and control assessments, control testing, external assessments, threat intelligence, and public and private information sharing. Our
cybersecurity framework also includes processes for escalating and considering the materiality of incidents that impact Truist, including escalation to
executive management and the Board, which are periodically tested through tabletop exercises to test Truist’s preparedness.
In addition, our Technology Management Committee is an internal committee created to ensure that members of executive management overseeing
multiple business units understand pertinent technology-related topics, including cybersecurity and information security, and associated risks. The
Technology Management Committee provides additional oversight of cybersecurity and information security strategy, including understanding and
prioritizing cybersecurity and information security capabilities and associated risks.
The members of management that lead our Cybersecurity Program and strategy have extensive experience in technology, cybersecurity, and
information security. Our CIO of has over 25 years of experience leading cybersecurity teams at financial institutions, including in the areas of
information technology strategy, risk management, and information security. Following the departure of our CISO in January 2024, we have appointed
an interim CISO while our search for a permanent CISO continues. Our interim CISO has over 20 years of experience as a technology and information
security executive in the financial services industry, including serving as CISO at two different financial institutions and as a supervising examiner for
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
76 Truist Financial Corporation
Board of Directors’ oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats
Our Board has primary responsibility for the oversight of our enterprise risk management, and exercises its oversight function in respect of
cybersecurity risk through two of its committees. The Risk Committee of the Board is responsible for oversight of Truist’s risk management function,
involving approving and reviewing Truist’s risk management framework and policies as well as overseeing management’s implementation of Truist’s
risk management framework and significant risk policies. In addition, the Technology Committee of the Board assists the Board and the Risk Committee
in oversight of Truist’s technology risks.
The oversight responsibility of our Board and its committees is facilitated through management-reporting processes designed to provide visibility to the
Board and its committees on the processes for the identification, assessment, prioritization and management of critical risks and management’s risk
mitigation strategies. For example, members of the Risk Committee receive regular reports from our CRO and CTRO related to information technology
and cybersecurity risks to Truist. The Risk Committee may also meet throughout the year with risk management advisors and discuss with executive
management any recommendations received. In addition, the Technology Committee receives reports from management regarding Truist’s practices,
management, and functioning of technology operations and cybersecurity and information security risks, and reviews and discusses Truist’s technology
policies, standards and controls. On at least a semi-annual basis, the Technology Committee reports to the Risk Committee the significant activities
undertaken by the Technology Committee involving oversight of technology risks in support of the Risk Committee’s overall responsibility and oversight
of Truist’s risk management framework. The CISO provides updates at every Technology Committee meeting on cybersecurity and information security
risk, and the Board annually reviews and approves our Information Security Program and Information Security Policy.
Truist provides ongoing development and education to its directors with respect to cybersecurity, including presentations at Board meetings on special
topics, such as updates on cybersecurity legislation and regulation, as well as making available written materials and video presentations to directors
for review at their own pace. The Board also conducts a cybersecurity tabletop exercise at least every other year to simulate Truist’s analysis and
response to hypothetical cybersecurity incidents. In addition, Truist provides directors with a Board Cybersecurity Handbook that provides details on
key Truist practices, resources and protocols relating to cybersecurity protection, response and preparedness. Finally, as required by the GrammLeach-Bliley Act, the Board receives an update at least annually on Truist’s information security program.
Data Risk
Truist is subject to risk that data may be negatively impacted by integrity, quality, availability, and privacy, which could potentially impact regulatory and
management reporting, public disclosures, and business decisions. Truist recognizes the importance of maintaining accurate and reliable data and
maintains a formal data risk management program to mitigate risks related to data fidelity. Through active data risk monitoring and accuracy testing,
Truist provides reasonable assurance over the quality and retention of key data used for operational, strategic, regulatory, and compliance purposes.
Management and the Board provide oversight of the data risk management program and receive regular updates from the Chief Data Risk Officer.
While the current data risk management program identifies and mitigates data risk, the data risk program must be dynamic and is actively expanding
oversight to enhance data risk management capabilities to achieve the data risk management objectives defined in the strategic plan.
Compliance Risk
Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from non-conformance
with prescribed practices, internal policies, and procedures or ethical standards. This risk exposes Truist to fines, civil monetary penalties, payment of
damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can result in diminished reputation, reduced franchise or enterprise value, limited business
opportunities, increased costs and expenses, and lessened expansion potential.
Strategic Risk
Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, stock price, diminished stakeholder confidence, or negative impact to human capital resulting from
ineffective strategy and execution, adverse business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the banking industry and operating
environment. Truist is committed to fulfilling its overall strategic objectives by setting and successfully executing established business strategies to
deliver on earnings growth and maintaining strong confidence and trust with key stakeholder constituencies.
Truist Financial Corporation 77
Reputational Risk
Truist manages reputational risk under an established risk management framework that includes established policies and procedures embedded within
its existing business and risk management processes. The Company proactively monitors, identifies, and internally escalates potential reputational risk
events and endeavors to mitigate such reputational risks in a timely manner. Truist takes pride with ensuring transparent and accurate communication,
both internally and externally, to respond to key stakeholders on issues or events that give rise to potential reputational risk. Truist utilizes an
established risk taxonomy that is used to help identify, measure, and monitor reputational risk that enables clear transparently communication to
stakeholders on the level of potential risk faced by the Company which in turn allows for effective management of risk to acceptable levels.
Truist is committed to operating in a manner that reflects the Company’s stated Purpose, Mission, and Values and seeks to protect its reputation, public
confidence, and resilience by identifying and evaluating associated risks that conflict with the expectations of the Company’s internal and external
stakeholders, including clients, teammates, investors, regulators, and communities.
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from
external events. It includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss arising from defective transactions, litigation or claims made, or the failure to adequately
protect company-owned assets. An operational loss occurs when an event results in a loss or reserve originating from operational risk.
Model Risk
Model risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs. Truist uses models for
many purposes, including the valuation of financial positions, estimation of credit losses, and the measurement of risk. Valuation models are used to
value certain financial instruments for which quoted prices may not be readily available. Valuation models are also used as inputs for VaR, the
estimation of VaR itself, regulatory capital, stress testing, and the ACL. Models are owned by the applicable BUs, who are responsible for the
development, implementation, and use of their models. Oversight of these functions is performed by the MRO, which is a component of the RMO. Once
models have been approved, model owners are responsible for the maintenance of an appropriate operating environment and must monitor and
evaluate the performance of the models on a recurring basis. Models are updated in response to changes in portfolio composition, industry and
economic conditions, technological capabilities, and other developments.
MRO manages model risk in a holistic manner through a suite of model governance and model validation activities. The risk of each model is assessed
and classified into various risk tiers. Additionally, MRO maintains an enterprise-wide model inventory containing relevant model information. Regarding
model validation, MRO utilizes internal validation analysts and managers with skill sets in predictive modeling to perform detailed reviews of model
development, implementation, and conceptual soundness. On certain occasions, the MRO will also engage external parties to assist with validation
efforts. Once in a production environment, MRO assesses a model’s performance on a periodic basis through ongoing monitoring reviews. MRO tracks
issues that have been identified during model validation or through ongoing monitoring and engages with model owners to ensure their timely
remediation. MRO gauges model risk utilizing a collection of key risk indicators, which are periodically reported to relevant committees, including but
not limited to, the Model Risk Management Committee and the ERC. MRO will also present model risk topics to the Board Risk Committee as
necessary.
Liquidity
Liquidity represents the continuing ability to meet funding needs, including deposit withdrawals, repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and
funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cash equivalents, and AFS securities, other factors affect the ability
to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity, growing core deposits, loan repayment, and
the ability to securitize or package loans for sale.
Truist monitors the ability to meet client demand for funds under both normal and stressed market conditions. In considering its liquidity position,
management evaluates Truist’s funding mix based on client core funding, client rate-sensitive funding, and national markets funding. In addition,
management evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive funding sources that mature in one year or less. Management also measures liquidity needs against
30 days of stressed cash outflows for Truist and Truist Bank. To ensure a strong liquidity position and compliance with regulatory requirements,
management maintains a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unencumbered securities.
78 Truist Financial Corporation
Internal Liquidity Stress Testing
Liquidity stress testing is designed to ensure that Truist and Truist Bank have sufficient liquidity for a variety of institution-specific and market-wide
adverse scenarios. Each liquidity stress test scenario applies defined assumptions to execute sources and uses of liquidity over varying planning
horizons. The types of expected liquidity uses during a stressed event may include deposit attrition, contractual maturities, reductions in unsecured and
secured funding, and increased draws on unfunded commitments. To mitigate liquidity outflows, Truist has identified sources of liquidity; however,
access to these sources of liquidity could be affected within a stressed environment.
Truist maintains a liquidity buffer of cash on hand and highly liquid unencumbered securities that is sufficient to meet the projected net stressed cashflow needs and maintain compliance with regulatory requirements. The liquidity buffer consists of unencumbered highly liquid assets and Truist’s
liquidity buffer is substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as HQLA under the LCR Rule.
Contingency Funding Plan
Truist has a contingency funding plan designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly
in the event of a liquidity contraction. This plan is designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under the various internal liquidity stress
scenarios and is periodically tested to assess the plan’s reliability. Additionally, the plan provides a framework for management and other teammates to
follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The plan addresses authority for activation and decision making, liquidity
options, and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.
LCR and HQLA
The LCR rule requires that Truist and Truist Bank maintain an amount of eligible HQLA that is sufficient to meet its estimated total net cash outflows
over a prospective 30 calendar-day period of stress. Eligible HQLA, for purposes of calculating the LCR, is the amount of unencumbered HQLA that
satisfy operational requirements of the LCR rule. Truist and Truist Bank are subject to the Category III reduced LCR requirements. Truist held average
weighted eligible HQLA of $84.9 billion and Truist’s average LCR was 112% for the three months ended December 31, 2023.
Effective July 2021, Truist became subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which are designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a
stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. At December 31, 2023, Truist was compliant with
this requirement.
Sources of Funds
Management believes current sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet Truist’s on- and off-balance sheet obligations. Truist funds its balance sheet
through diverse sources of funding including client deposits, secured and unsecured capital markets funding, and shareholders’ equity. Truist Bank’s
primary source of funding is client deposits. Continued access to client deposits is highly dependent on public confidence in the stability of Truist Bank
and its ability to return funds to clients when requested.
Truist Bank maintains a number of diverse funding sources to meet its liquidity requirements. These sources include unsecured borrowings from the
capital markets through the issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes, institutional CDs, overnight and term Federal funds markets, and retail
brokered CDs. Truist Bank also maintains access to secured borrowing sources including FHLB advances, repurchase agreements, and the FRB
discount window. Available investment securities could be pledged to create additional secured borrowing capacity. The following table presents a
summary of Truist Bank’s available secured borrowing capacity and eligible cash at the FRB:
Table 35: Selected Liquidity Sources
(Dollars in millions) Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022
Unused borrowing capacity:
FRB $ 55,252 $ 49,250
FHLB 24,712 20,770
Available investment securities (after haircuts) 74,717 85,401
Available secured borrowing capacity 154,681 155,421
Eligible cash at the FRB 25,085 15,556
Total $ 179,766 $ 170,977
At December 31, 2023, Truist Bank’s available secured borrowing capacity represented approximately 3.4 times the amount of wholesale funding
maturities in one-year or less. Truist additionally has the ability to increase sources of funding by pledging available investment securities to receive the
par value of the collateral under the FRB Bank Term Funding Program.
Truist Financial Corporation 79
Parent Company
The Parent Company serves as the primary source of capital for the operating subsidiaries. The Parent Company’s assets consist primarily of cash on
deposit with Truist Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, and notes receivable from subsidiaries. The principal obligations
of the Parent Company are payments on long-term debt. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from
subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of equity and long-term debt. The primary uses of funds by the
Parent Company are investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to common and preferred shareholders, repurchases of
common stock, and payments on and, from time-to-time, potential repurchases or redemptions of a portion of an outstanding tranche of the long-term
debt of the Parent Company (as may be permitted by the terms of each respective series). See “Note 22. Parent Company Financial Information” for
additional information regarding dividends from subsidiaries and debt transactions.
Access to funding at the Parent Company is more sensitive to market disruptions. Therefore, Truist prudently manages cash levels at the Parent
Company to cover a minimum of one year of projected cash outflows which includes unfunded external commitments, debt service, common and
preferred dividends and scheduled debt maturities, without the benefit of any new cash inflows. Truist maintains a significant buffer above the projected
one year of cash outflows. In determining the buffer, Truist considers cash requirements for common and preferred dividends, unfunded commitments
to affiliates, serving as a source of strength to Truist Bank, and being able to withstand sustained market disruptions that could limit access to the
capital markets. At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Parent Company had 48 months and 37 months, respectively, of cash on hand to
satisfy projected cash outflows, and 30 months and 22 months, respectively, when including the payment of common stock dividends.
Credit Ratings
Credit ratings are forward-looking opinions of rating agencies as to the Company’s ability to meet its financial commitments and repay its securities and
obligations in accordance with their terms of issuance. Credit ratings influence both borrowing costs and access to the capital markets. The Company’s
credit ratings are continuously monitored by the rating agencies and are subject to change at any time. As Truist seeks to maintain high-quality credit
ratings, management meets with the major rating agencies on a regular basis to provide financial and business updates and to discuss current outlooks
and trends. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for additional information regarding factors that influence credit ratings and potential risks that could materialize
in the event of downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings:
The following table presents the credit ratings and outlooks of Truist and Truist Bank as of December 31, 2023:
Table 36: Credit Ratings of Truist Financial Corporation and Truist Bank
Moody’s S&P Fitch DBRS Morningstar
Truist Financial Corporation:
Issuer A3 A- / A-2 A+ / F1 AAL / R-1M
Senior unsecured A3 A- A AAL
Subordinated A3 BBB+ A- AH
Preferred stock Baa2(hyb) BBB- BBB AL
Truist Bank:
Issuer A2 A / A-1 A+ / F1 AA / R-1H
Senior unsecured A2 A A+ AA
Deposits Aa3 / P-1 NA AA- / F1+ AA
Subordinated (P) A2 A- A AAL
Ratings outlook:
Credit trend Negative Stable Negative Stable
Changes in the Company’s credit ratings and outlooks during 2023 include:
• On March 31, 2023, S&P Global Ratings affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised the outlook on those ratings to “stable” from
“positive,” citing heightened market volatility in the wake of bank failures in the first half of 2023 and, with inflation still elevated, higher
uncertainty, and greater downside risk in the economic outlook. The change in outlook was part of a broader action by S&P Global Ratings
whereby the “positive” outlook on three other large U.S. banks was revised to “stable.”
• On August 7, 2023, Moody’s Investors Service placed the long-term ratings and certain short-term ratings of Truist and Truist Bank “under
review for downgrade,” citing Truist’s comparatively low, though improving, level of capitalization, along with weaknesses in asset-liability
management. The review also reflects the view of Moody’s Investor Service that the stability of U.S. banks’ deposit funding has declined, as
reflected in the agency’s decision to lower the U.S. macro profile.
80 Truist Financial Corporation
• On August 11, 2023, DBRS, Inc. affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and maintained a “stable” ratings outlook, citing Truist’s highly
scaled and diversified regional banking franchise, conservative risk profile, and sound liquidity management and capital levels. In affirming the
ratings, DBRS, Inc. also noted the ratings take into account the more challenging operating environment and the expectation that funding costs
and asset quality metrics could worsen from current levels, providing some pressure to earnings, and that credit deterioration associated with
normalization of the credit cycle would be manageable.
• On August 21, 2023, S&P Global Ratings affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and maintained a “stable” ratings outlook, citing Truist’s
strong market position and diversified business model as a substantial offset to deposit and margin pressures. S&P Global Ratings viewed
Truist’s capital ratios unfavorably after considering unrealized losses on securities but also wrote that Truist has the earnings capacity to build
its capital ratios and support franchise growth over time.
• On October 16, 2023, Fitch Ratings affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised the ratings outlook to “negative” from “stable.” In
affirming Truist’s ratings, Fitch Ratings cited the company’s diverse revenue model, solid asset quality, and expected capital build over the
rating horizon; however, the “negative” ratings outlook reflects the view of Fitch Ratings that Truist currently has less “headroom” to face
increasing earnings pressures than similarly-rated peers.
• On November 1, 2023, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and revised the outlook on those ratings to
“negative” from “rating under review for downgrade.” The confirmation of Truist’s ratings reflects Moody’s Investor Service’s view that Truist
should be able to continue to grow its capital ratios through earnings retention and balance sheet optimization activities, and also maintain
adequate control of its asset liability management risks, including rising funding costs and its sizeable holdings of low-yielding, fixed-rate
assets.
• On February 20, 2024, Moody’s Investors Service placed the long-term ratings and certain short-term ratings of Truist and Truist Bank “under
review for downgrade,” citing that even though its capitalization will improve materially, Truist will be less diversified and will have greater
reliance on net interest income, and as a consequence of these factors, it will likely have greater earnings volatility following the sale of TIH.
• On February 20, 2024, Fitch Ratings downgraded the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank to ‘A’ from ‘A+’ following the announced sale of TIH.
Fitch has also downgraded TFC and Truist Bank’s viability rating to ‘a’ from ‘a+.’ The rating outlook is “stable.” Fitch Ratings cited: (i) TIH as
largest source of fee income; (ii) the segment has grown faster than rest of the bank and benefited from higher inflation in recent years; and (iii)
the sale will result in a less diverse business mix than similarly-rated peers.
• On February 20, 2024, DBRS, Inc. affirmed the ratings of Truist and Truist Bank and maintained a “stable” ratings outlook, citing the sale of the
remaining stake in TIH has no impact on the Company’s credit ratings.
• On February 22, 2024, S&P Global Ratings affirmed its ‘A-/A-2’ issuer credit ratings on Truist and its ‘A/A-1’ ratings on Truist Bank, citing that
the TIH sale will significantly boost Truist’s regulatory capital ratios, enhance Truist’s liquidity, and help fund continued organic growth in its core
banking businesses. The outlook on the long-term ratings is stable.
Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet Truist’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. As of
December 31, 2023, the Company had $2.3 billion in obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding. Many of the
purchase obligations have terms that are not fixed and determinable and are included in the total amount of obligations based upon the estimated
timing and amount of payment. In addition, certain of the purchase agreements contain clauses that would allow Truist to cancel the agreement with
specified notice; however, that impact is not included in determining the total amount of obligations. See “Note 9. Other Assets and Liabilities,” “Note 11.
Borrowings,” and “Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and
contractual commitments and obligations.
Capital
The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. Truist’s principal goals related to the
maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support Truist’s risk profile consistent with the Board-approved risk appetite, provide financial
flexibility to support future growth and client needs, comply with relevant laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, achieve optimal credit ratings for
Truist and its subsidiaries, remain a source of strength for its subsidiaries, and provide a competitive return to shareholders. Risk-based capital ratios,
which include CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Total capital are calculated based on regulatory guidance related to the measurement of capital and riskweighted assets.
Truist Financial Corporation 81
Truist regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is required to periodically submit the Company’s capital plans and stress testing results
to the banking regulators. Management regularly monitors the capital position of Truist on both a consolidated and bank-level basis. In this regard,
management’s objective is to maintain capital at levels that are in excess of internal capital limits, which are above the regulatory “well-capitalized”
minimums. Management has implemented internal stress capital ratio minimums to evaluate whether capital ratios calculated after the effect of
alternative capital actions are likely to remain above internal minimums. Breaches of internal stressed minimums prompt a review of the planned capital
actions included in Truist’s capital plan.
Table 37: Capital Requirements
Minimum Capital
Well-Capitalized Minimum Capital Plus
Truist Truist Bank Stress Capital Buffer
CET1 4.5 % NA 6.5 % 7.4 %
Tier 1 capital 6.0 6.0 % 8.0 8.9
Total capital 8.0 10.0 10.0 10.9
Leverage ratio 4.0 NA 5.0 NA
Supplementary leverage ratio 3.0 NA NA NA
(1) Reflects a SCB requirement of 2.9% applicable to Truist as of December 31, 2023. Truist’s SCB requirement, received in the 2023 CCAR process, is effective from October 1, 2023 to
September 30, 2024.
Payments of cash dividends and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition,
management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity). The
active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key
element in the management of Truist’s capital position.
Management intends to maintain capital at Truist Bank at levels that exceed the minimum capital plus CCB. This will also result in Truist Bank being
“well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain Truist Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory riskbased capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity, and risk profile. If the capital levels of Truist Bank increase
above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company in the form of special dividend payments, subject to regulatory and
other operating considerations.
Management’s capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on (i) organic growth, (ii) dividends, (iii) strategic opportunities and
acquisitions, and (iv) share repurchases if excess capital is available.
Truist Bank’s capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 38: Capital Ratios - Truist Bank
Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022
CET1 11.7 % 10.6 %
Tier 1 capital 11.7 10.6
Total capital 13.3 12.1
Leverage ratio 9.2 8.5
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.9 7.3
Truist’s capital ratios are presented in the following table:
Table 39: Capital Ratios - Truist Financial Corporation
(Dollars in millions) Dec 31, 2023 Dec 31, 2022
Risk-based:
CET1 10.1 % 9.0 %
Tier 1 capital 11.6 10.5
Total capital 13.7 12.4
Leverage ratio 9.3 8.5
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.9 7.3
Risk-weighted assets $ 423,705 $ 434,413
Truist’s capital level at December 31, 2023 remains strong compared to the regulatory levels for well-capitalized banks. Truist’s CET1 ratio was 10.1%
as of December 31, 2023. The 110 basis point increase since December 31, 2022 resulted from organic capital generation and the minority stake sale
in TIH, partially offset by the CECL phase in. The remaining CECL phase in will be amortized ratably in the first quarters of 2024 and 2025.
Truist paid $2.8 billion in common stock dividends, or $2.08 per share, during 2023, compared to $2.7 billion, or $2.00 per share, for 2022. Truist did not
have any share repurchases for 2023 and repurchased $250 million in common stock in 2022. In early 2024, Truist declared common dividends of
$0.52 per share for the first quarter of 2024.
(1)
82 Truist Financial Corporation
Reclassifications
In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the current presentation. Such reclassifications had
no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income. Refer to “Note 1. Basis of Presentation” for additional discussion regarding
reclassifications.
Critical Accounting Policies
The accounting and reporting policies of Truist are in accordance with GAAP and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by
bank regulatory authorities. The financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including
estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses.
Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in the consolidated financial position and/or consolidated
results of operations and related disclosures. Understanding Truist’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding the consolidated financial
position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, Truist’s significant accounting policies and effects of new accounting pronouncements are
discussed in detail in “Note 1. Basis of Presentation.”
The following is a summary of Truist’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions, and judgments. These critical
accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a periodic basis.
ACL
Truist’s ACL represents management’s best estimate of expected future credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolios and off-balance sheet
lending commitments at the balance sheet date. Estimates of expected future loan and lease losses are determined by using statistical models and
management’s judgement. The ACL estimation process includes both quantitatively calculated components as well as qualitative components.
Quantitative models are designed to forecast probability of default, exposure at default and loss given default by correlating certain macroeconomic
forecast data to historical experience. The models are generally applied at the portfolio level to pools of loans with similar risk characteristics. Certain
loans or leases that do not have similar risk characteristics are individually evaluated when establishing an allowance for expected credit losses. The
macroeconomic forecast data used in the models is based on forecasted variables for the reasonable and supportable period of two years. Beyond this
forecast period the models gradually revert to long-term historical loss conditions over a one-year period. As a means of addressing uncertainty related
to future economic conditions, the quantitative allowance components include an adjustment that reflects model outputs calculated using a range of
potential future economic conditions. Expected losses are estimated through contractual maturity, giving appropriate consideration to expected
prepayments unless the borrower has a right to renew that is not cancellable or to capture the losses expected at the balance sheet date or prior to
January 1, 2023 it is reasonably expected that the loan will be modified as a TDR.
The qualitative components of the ACL incorporate management’s judgment in determining qualitative adjustments where model outputs are
inconsistent with management’s expectations with respect to expected credit losses. The qualitative components are used to adjust for limitations in
modeled results related to current economic conditions, and considerations with respect to the impact of current and expected events or risks, the
outcomes of which are uncertain and may not be completely considered by quantitative models.
Management considers a range of macroeconomic forecast data in connection with the allowance estimation process. Under the range of scenarios
considered as of December 31, 2023, use of the Company’s pessimistic scenario would have resulted in an increase to the modeled allowance results
of approximately $2.2 billion. This estimate reflects the sensitivity of the modeled allowance estimate to macroeconomic forecast data but does not
consider other qualitative adjustments that could increase or decrease modeled loss estimates calculated using this alternative economic scenario.
The Company individually evaluates expected credits losses related to loans and leases that do not share similar risk characteristics and prior to
January 1, 2023 loans that have been classified as a TDR. For individually evaluated loans, the ALLL is determined through review of data specific to
the borrower and related collateral, if any, while prior to January 1, 2023 for TDRs, default expectations and estimated prepayment speeds that are
specific to each of the restructured loan populations are incorporated in the determination of the ALLL.
The methodology used to determine an estimate for the RUFC is similar to that used to determine the funded component of the ALLL and is measured
over the period there is a contractual obligation to extend credit that is not unconditionally cancellable. The RUFC is adjusted for factors specific to
binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at default. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the
ACL is included in “Note 1. Basis of Presentation.”
Truist Financial Corporation 83
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The vast majority of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for
similar instruments. Refer to “Note 18. Fair Value Disclosures” for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments and “Note 2.
Business Combinations, Divestitures, and Noncontrolling Interests” for additional disclosures regarding business combinations.
Securities
Truist generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determining the fair value of its AFS investment securities, whereas trading securities are priced
internally. Fair value measurements for investment securities are derived from market-based pricing matrices that were developed using observable
inputs that include benchmark yields, benchmark securities, reported trades, offers, bids, issuer spreads, and broker quotes. Management performs
procedures to evaluate the fair values provided by the third-party service provider. These procedures, which are performed independent of the
responsible business unit, include comparison of pricing information received from the third-party pricing service to other third-party pricing sources,
review of additional information provided by the third-party pricing service and other third-party sources for selected securities and back-testing to
compare the price realized on security sales to the daily pricing information received from the third-party pricing service. The Enterprise Valuation
Committee, which provides oversight to Truist’s enterprise-wide IPV function, is responsible for the comparison of pricing information received from the
third-party pricing service or internally to other third-party pricing sources, approving tolerance limits determined by IPV for price comparison
exceptions, reviewing significant changes to pricing and valuation policies and reviewing and approving the pricing decisions made on any illiquid and
hard-to-price securities. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity or inactive markets for certain
securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management to reflect unobservable input assumptions.
MSRs
Truist’s primary class of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risks relates to residential mortgages. Residential MSRs do not trade in
an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily
available. Accordingly, Truist estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using a stochastic OAS valuation model to project residential MSR cash flows
over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually
specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic
factors. Truist reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and
assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the residential MSR asset.
Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to industry surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience and, when available,
observable market data. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, residential MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of
residential MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In
general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgagerefinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of residential MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity.
Truist typically hedges against market value changes in the residential MSRs. Refer to “Note 8. Loan Servicing” for quantitative disclosures reflecting
the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of residential MSRs.
LHFS
Truist originates certain residential and commercial mortgage loans for sale to investors that are measured at fair value. The fair value is primarily
based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as components of Mortgage
banking income, while the related origination costs are generally recognized in Personnel expense when incurred. The changes in fair value are largely
driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the LHFS. Truist uses various
derivative instruments to mitigate the economic effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans. LHFS also includes certain loans, generally
carried at LOCOM, where management has committed to a formal plan of sale and the loans are available for immediate sale. Adjustments to reflect
unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value, up to the original carrying amount, and realized gains and losses upon ultimate sale
are classified as noninterest income. The fair value of these loans is estimated using observable market prices when available. When observable
market prices are not available, the Company uses judgment and estimates fair value using internal models that reflect assumptions consistent with
those that would be used by a market participant in estimating fair value. Refer to “Note 1. Basis of Presentation” for further description of the
Company’s accounting for LHFS.
84 Truist Financial Corporation
Trading Loans
Truist elects to measure certain loans at fair value for financial reporting where fair value aligns with the underlying business purpose. Specifically,
loans included within this classification include trading loans that are (i) purchased in connection with the Company’s TRS business, (ii) part of the loan
sales and trading business within the C&CB segment, or (iii) backed by the SBA. Refer to “Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies,” and “Note 19.
Derivative Financial Instruments,” for further discussion of the Company’s TRS business. The loans purchased in connection with the Company’s TRS
and sales and trading businesses are primarily commercial and corporate leveraged loans valued based on quoted prices for identical or similar
instruments in markets that are not active by a third-party pricing service. SBA loans are fully guaranteed by the U.S. government as to contractual
principal and interest and there is sufficient observable trading activity upon which to base the estimate of fair value.
Derivative Assets and Liabilities
Truist uses derivatives to manage various financial risks and in a dealer capacity to facilitate client transactions. Truist mitigates credit risk by subjecting
counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties
are required to provide collateral to Truist when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair values of derivative financial
instruments are determined based on quoted market prices and internal pricing models that use market observable data for interest rates, foreign
exchange, equity, and credit. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted
market prices adjusted for commitments that Truist does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee. Refer to “Note
19. Derivative Financial Instruments” for further information on the Company’s derivatives.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The acquisition method of accounting requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are recorded at their fair values.
This often involves estimates based on third-party valuations or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation
techniques, which are inherently subjective. The amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be
received, which is also subjective. Business combinations also typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based
on the fair values of the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates. Refer to “Note 1. Basis of Presentation” for a description of the
impairment testing process.
At December 31, 2023, Truist’s reporting units with goodwill balances were CB&W, C&CB, and IH. Management performs a goodwill impairment
analysis on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events or circumstances indicate that it is more-likely-than not that the fair value of a
reporting unit is below its carrying value. For its annual impairment review, Truist performed a quantitative test of each of its reporting units. The
quantitative impairment test estimates the fair value of the reporting units using the income approach and a market-based approach, weighted 50% and
50%, respectively. The inputs and assumptions specific to each reporting unit are incorporated in the valuations, including projections of future cash
flows, discount rates, and applicable valuation multiples based on the comparable public company information. The income approach utilizes a
discounted cash flow analysis of multi-year financial forecasts developed for each reporting unit by considering several inputs and assumptions such as
net interest margin, expected credit losses, noninterest income, noninterest expense, and required capital. The market based approach utilizes
comparable public company information, key valuation multiples, and considers a market control premium associated with cost synergies and other
cash flow benefits that arise from obtaining control over a reporting unit, and guideline transactions, when applicable.
Truist also assesses the reasonableness of the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units by comparison to its market capitalization over a
reasonable period of time, including consideration of expected acquirer expense synergies, historic bank control premiums, and the current market.
The projection of net interest margin and noninterest expense are the most significant inputs to the financial projections of the CB&W and C&CB
reporting units. The long-term growth rate used in determining the terminal value of each reporting unit was 3% as of October 1, 2023, based on
management’s assessment of the minimum expected terminal growth rate of each reporting unit. Discount rates are estimated based on the Capital
Asset Pricing Model, which considers the risk-free interest rate, market risk premium, beta, and unsystematic risk adjustments specific to a particular
reporting unit. The discount rates are also calibrated based on risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. The discount rates
utilized for the CB&W, C&CB, and IH reporting units as of October 1, 2023 were 13.5%, 12.5%, and 11.0%, respectively.
Truist Financial Corporation 85
Based on the Company’s annual impairment test of goodwill, it was determined for the CB&W and C&CB reporting units that the respective reporting
units’ carrying value was in excess of its respective fair value as of October 1, 2023, resulting in a non-cash, non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment
charge of $6.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. The goodwill impairment was primarily due to the continued impact of higher interest rates
and discount rates on the CB&W and C&CB reporting units, and a sustained decline in banking industry share prices, including Truist’s. For the IH
reporting unit, it was determined that the reporting unit’s fair value was in excess of its respective carrying value as of October 1, 2023.
The estimated fair value of a reporting unit is highly sensitive to changes in management’s estimates and assumptions; therefore, in some instances,
changes in these assumptions could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying value. Circumstances that could
negatively impact the fair value of Truist’s reporting units in the future include a sustained decrease in Truist’s stock price, continued decline in industry
peer multiples, an increase in the applicable discount rate and further deterioration in the reporting units’ forecasts. Additionally, a reporting unit’s
carrying value could change based on market conditions, change in the underlying makeup of the reporting unit, or the risk profile of those reporting
units, which could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value.
The Company monitored events and circumstances during the period from October 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023, including macroeconomic and
market factors, industry and banking sector events, Truist specific performance indicators, a comparison of management’s forecast and assumptions to
those used in its October 1, 2023 quantitative impairment test, and the sensitivity of the October 1, 2023 quantitative test results to changes in
assumptions through December 31, 2023. Based on these considerations, management concluded that it was not more-likely-than-not that the fair
value of one or more of its reporting units is below its respective carrying amount as of December 31, 2023.
Income Taxes
Truist is subject to income tax laws of the U.S., its states, and the municipalities in which the Company conducts business. In estimating the net amount
due to or to be received from tax jurisdictions either currently or in the future, the Company assesses the appropriate tax treatment of transactions and
filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent, and other pertinent information. The income tax laws are complex and subject
to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the tax
accruals and in evaluating the Company’s tax positions, including evaluating uncertain tax positions. Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws and new judicial guidance, the status of examinations by the tax authorities, and
newly enacted statutory and regulatory guidance that could impact the relative merits and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur,
impact tax expense and can materially affect operating results. Truist reviews tax positions quarterly and adjusts accrued taxes as new information
becomes available.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years. Such assets arise due to temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from NOL and tax credit carryforwards. The Company
regularly evaluates the ability to realize DTAs, recognizing a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not
that some portion or all of the DTA will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, the Company considers the level of
taxable income in prior years to the extent that carrybacks are permitted under current tax laws, as well as estimates of future pre-tax and taxable
income and tax planning strategies that would, if necessary, be implemented. Truist currently maintains a valuation allowance for certain state
carryforwards. For additional income tax information, refer to “Note 1. Basis of Presentation” and “Note 14. Income Taxes.”
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations
Truist offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to teammates. Calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these
plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions, which are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if
different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to an AA
Above Median corporate bond yield curve and the individual characteristics of the plans such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations.
Management also considered the sensitivity that changes in the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension expense.
For the Company’s qualified plans, a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in additional pension expense of approximately $29
million for 2024, while a decrease of 100 basis points in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $145 million in
pension expense for 2024. This estimate reflects the sensitivity of certain factors considered in calculation of pension expense but does not consider all
factors that could increase or decrease estimates calculated.
Refer to “Note 15. Benefit Plans” for disclosures related to the benefit plans.
86 Truist Financial Corporation
