Company Information 

General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a financial 
services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, serving millions of local, national and global customers. 
U.S. Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company under the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), and has 
elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the 
BHC Act. The Company provides a full range of financial services, 
including lending and depository services, cash management, 
capital markets, and trust and investment management services. It 
also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM 
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. 

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National 

Association, is engaged in the general banking business, 
principally in domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, 
with $465 billion in deposits at December 31, 2021, provides a 
wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, 
institutional organizations, governmental entities and other financial 
institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are 
principally offered to customers within the Company’s domestic 
markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and to 
large national customers operating in specific industries targeted 
by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil and gas, and 
state and municipal government. Lending services include 
traditional credit products as well as credit card services, lease 
financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, 
agricultural finance and other products. Depository services 
include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate 
contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury 
management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to 
corporate and governmental entity customers. U.S. Bancorp’s 
bank and trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset 
management and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, 
foundations, business corporations and charitable organizations. 
Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment 

and insurance products to the Company’s customers principally 
within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a 
broad range of mutual and other funds. 

Banking and investment services are provided through a 
network of 2,230 banking offices as of December 31, 2021, 
principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the 
United States, through on-line services, over mobile devices and 
through other distribution channels. The Company operates a 
network of 4,059 ATMs as of December 31, 2021, and provides 
24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage 
banking services are provided through banking offices and loan 
production offices throughout the Company’s domestic markets. 
Lending products may be originated through banking offices, 
indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The 
Company is also one of the largest providers of corporate and 
purchasing card services and corporate trust services in the 
United States. The Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, 
Inc. (“Elavon”), provides domestic merchant processing services 

directly to merchants. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Elavon 
provide similar merchant services in Canada and segments of 
Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund 
administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are not 
significant to the Company. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and 
operational disruptions that have affected the Company’s 
business. Customer behavior has evolved greatly as more 
customers have migrated to on-line and digital-based products 
and services more quickly than originally anticipated. To meet 
these evolving customer preferences, the Company has 
continued and accelerated the development of digital-based 
products and services, as well as reduced the number of higher-
cost physical branches. 

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2021, 

U.S. Bancorp employed 68,796 people. 

Risk Factors An investment in the Company involves risk, 
including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall 
substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are risk factors 
that are material to, and could adversely affect, the Company’s 
financial results and condition and the value of, and return on, an 
investment in the Company. 

Economic and Market Conditions Risk 
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to 
cause significant harm to the global economy and the 
Company’s businesses The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and 
is expected to continue to have, negative effects on global 
economic conditions, including disruption and volatility of financial 
markets, supply chain disruptions, fluctuations in unemployment 
and other negative outcomes, including inflation. It is expected 
that these negative effects will be episodic for the duration of the 
pandemic, and, if new COVID variants or other diseases emerge, 
these negative effects on the global economy could worsen. 
The continuation or worsening of the economic conditions 
caused by COVID-19 may continue to have a material adverse 
effect on the Company and its business, including: (i) additional 
changes in demand for the Company’s products and services; 
(ii) possible increased recognition of credit losses and increases in 
the allowance for credit losses (particularly if unemployment rises 
and customers draw on their lines of credit); (iii) possible 
downgrades to the Company’s credit ratings; (iv) increased 
constraints on liquidity and capital; (v) the possibility of further 
reduced revenues from the Company’s credit and debit card, 
corporate payments products and merchant processing services 
product offerings, including because of business closures, 
unemployment or requirements for consumers to stay at home; 
(vi) negative impacts on the ability of the Company’s employees 
to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, 
work-from-home arrangements or other restrictions relating to 
the pandemic, and (vii) negative impacts on the ability of the 
Company’s third-party service providers to provide their services 
to the Company. 

137 

Continuing negative effects of COVID-19 and the resulting 
economic and market disruptions will depend on developments 
that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. 
However, it is likely that the Company’s business, financial 
condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will continue to 
be adversely affected until the pandemic subsides and the 
domestic economy fully recovers. Further, the COVID-19 
pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the 
other risks described in this section. 

Deterioration in business and economic conditions could 
adversely affect the Company’s lending business and the 
value of loans and debt securities it holds The Company’s 
business activities and earnings are affected by general business 
conditions in the United States and abroad, including factors such 
as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, 
inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment 
levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, 
fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the 
global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and 
credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, 
and the strength of the domestic and global economies in which 
the Company operates. Changes in these conditions caused by 
the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected the Company’s 
consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, its 
level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, and its results 
of operations during 2020 and 2021, and other future changes in 
these conditions, whether related to the COVID-19 pandemic or 
otherwise, could have additional adverse effects on the Company 
and its businesses. 

Given the high percentage of the Company’s assets 

represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of 
lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions caused 
by COVID-19 negatively affected the Company’s business and 
results of operations, including new loan origination activity, 
existing loan utilization rates and delinquencies, defaults and the 
ability of customers to meet obligations under the loans. Although 
the effects of COVID-19 were mitigated in part by governmental 
programs, availability of vaccines and the Company’s measures to 
assist its borrowers, there can be no assurances that such 
measures will continue to be effective or that there will be future 
governmental programs. In addition, future deterioration in 
economic conditions, whether caused by COVID-19 or other 
events, could have adverse effects on loan origination activity, loan 
utilization rates and delinquencies, defaults and the ability of 
customers to meet loan obligations. The value to the Company of 
other assets such as investment securities, most of which are debt 
securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, 
similarly have been, and would be, negatively impacted by 
widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening 
of the economy. 

In addition, volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and its 

effects, which could potentially contribute to poor economic 
conditions, may contribute to or enhance some of the risks 
described herein. For example, higher inflation could reduce 
demand for the Company’s products, adversely affect the 
creditworthiness of its borrowers or result in lower values for its 

138 

interest-earning assets and investment securities. Any of these 
effects, or others that the Company is not able to predict, could 
adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. 

Any deterioration in global economic conditions could damage 

the domestic economy or negatively impact the Company’s 
borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect 
exposure to these regions. Such global disruptions, including 
disruptions in supply chains or geopolitical risk, can undermine 
investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or 
create market volatility, any of which could have material adverse 
effects on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, 
financial condition and liquidity, even if the Company’s direct 
exposure to the affected region is limited. Global political trends 
toward nationalism and isolationism, could increase the 
probability of a deterioration in global economic conditions. 

Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net 
interest income The Company’s earnings are dependent to a 
large degree on net interest income, which is the difference 
between interest income from loans and investments and interest 
expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is 
significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are 
affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and 
monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of 
various regulatory agencies. Volatility in interest rates can also 
result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into 
direct investments. Direct investments, such as United States 
government and corporate securities and other investment 
vehicles (including mutual funds), generally pay higher rates of 
return than financial institutions, because of the absence of 
federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. During the 
first quarter of 2020, United States interest rates fell dramatically, 
which adversely impacted the Company’s net interest income. 
Interest rates remained low through 2021, which adversely 
affected the Company’s net interest income over the same 
period, and a prolonged low-interest rate environment may 
continue to adversely impact the Company’s net interest income 
in future periods. In addition, some foreign central banks have 
moved to a negative interest rate environment, which has exerted 
downward pressure on the profitability of banks in those regions. 
The Company’s financial condition could be damaged if this 
interest rate trend extends to the United States. 

Conversely, when interest rates are increasing, the Company 

can generally be expected to earn higher net interest income. 
However, higher interest rates can also lead to fewer originations 
of loans, less liquidity in the financial markets, and higher funding 
costs, each of which could adversely affect the Company’s 
revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. Higher interest rates 
can also negatively affect the payment performance on loans that 
are linked to variable interest rates. If borrowers of variable rate 
loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those 
borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby 
causing the Company to incur losses and increased operational 
costs related to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. 

Changes in, or the discontinuance of, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as an interest rate 
benchmark could adversely affect the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations The 
administrator of LIBOR has announced that the publication of the 
most commonly used United States Dollar LIBOR settings will 
cease to be provided or cease to be representative after June 30, 
2023. The publication of all other LIBOR settings ceased to be 
provided or ceased to representative as of December 31, 2021. 
The United States federal banking agencies have also issued 
guidance strongly encouraging banking organizations to cease 
using the United States Dollar LIBOR as a reference rate in “new” 
contracts by December 31, 2021, with limited exceptions. 

The replacement of LIBOR is complex and could have a range 

of adverse impacts on the Company’s business and results of 
operations. The Company has various types of transactions, 
including derivatives, loans, bonds, and securitized products, that 
reference LIBOR and other Interbank Offered Rates (“IBORs”). 
The replacement of LIBOR and other IBORs with alternative 
benchmark rates and the Company’s development of products 
linked to alternate benchmark rates has created a number of risks 
for the Company, its customers, and the financial services 
industry more widely. 

The extensive changes to documentation that govern or 
reference LIBOR or LIBOR-based products create a variety of 
execution risks for the Company. The Company may be unable 
to modify contracts with its counterparties to replace the 
reference rate for existing contracts based on or linked to LIBOR 
and other interest rate benchmarks with alternative reference 
rates by the dates set for cessation of LIBOR and other interest 
rate benchmarks. 

The transition from LIBOR may also result in disputes, litigation 
or other actions with clients, counterparties or investors, including 
with respect to, among other things, (i) the interpretation and 
enforceability of provisions in LIBOR-based products such as 
fallback language or other related provisions, (ii) any economic, 
legal, operational or other impact from the fundamental 
differences between LIBOR and the various alterative reference 
rates, and (iii) any actions resulting from the Company’s 
interpretation and execution of its roles and responsibilities in 
corporate trust transactions. The transition may also result in 
additional inquiries or other actions from regulators regarding the 
Company’s preparation and readiness for the replacement of 
LIBOR. 

The discontinuation of a LIBOR setting, changes in LIBOR or 
changes in market acceptance of LIBOR as a reference rate may 
also adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by the 
Company; amounts paid on securities the Company has issued; 
amounts received and paid on derivative instruments it has 
entered into; the value of such loans, securities or derivative 
instruments; the trading market for securities; the terms of new 
loans being made using different or modified reference rates; the 
Company’s ability to effectively use derivative instruments to 
manage risk; and the availability or cost of floating-rate funding 
and the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. 

Changes to benchmark indices may also adversely affect the 
price, liquidity, value of, return on and trading for a broad array of 
financial products, including any LIBOR-linked securities, loans 
and derivatives that are included in the Company’s financial assets 
and liabilities. 

The Company is also subject to the risk that its customers, 
counterparties and third-party vendors are not operationally ready 
to transition away from LIBOR, and the failure of such third parties 
to upgrade their operations to transition away from LIBOR on a 
timely basis could materially disrupt the Company’s operations. 

Operations and Business Risk 
A breach in the security of the Company’s systems, or the 
systems of certain third parties, could disrupt the 
Company’s businesses, result in the disclosure of 
confidential information, damage its reputation and create 
significant financial and legal exposure The Company 
experiences numerous attacks on its computer systems, software, 
networks and other technology assets daily, and the number of 
attacks is increasing. Although the Company devotes significant 
resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and 
processes that are designed to protect the security of the 
Company’s computer systems, software, networks and other 
technology assets, as well as its intellectual property, and to 
protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information 
belonging to the Company and its customers, the Company’s 
security measures may not be effective. Adversaries continue to 
develop more sophisticated cyber attacks that could impact the 
Company. Many banking institutions, retailers and other 
companies engaged in data processing, including software and 
information technology service providers, have reported breaches 
in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which 
have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to 
obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy 
data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often 
through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber 
attacks and other means. 

Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall 

functioning of the financial system could also adversely affect, 
directly or indirectly, aspects of the Company’s businesses. The 
increasing consolidation, interdependence and complexity of 
financial entities and technology systems increases the risk of 
operational failure, both for the Company and on an industry-wide 
basis, and means that a technology failure, cyber attack, or other 
information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes 
or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial 
entities could materially affect counterparties or other market 
participants, including the Company. 

Third parties that facilitate the Company’s business activities, 

including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment and ATM 
networks, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services 
or technology solutions for the Company’s operations, could also 
be sources of operational and security risks to the Company, 
including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, 
misconduct by their employees or cyber attacks that could affect 
their ability to deliver a product or service to the Company or 

139 

result in lost or compromised information of the Company or its 
customers. The Company’s ability to implement back-up systems 
or other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is limited. 
Furthermore, an attack on or failure of a third-party system may 
not be revealed to the Company in a timely manner, which could 
compromise the Company’s ability to respond effectively. Some 
of these third parties may engage vendors of their own, which 
introduces the risk that these “fourth parties” could be the source 
of operational and security failures. In addition, if a third party or 
fourth party obtains access to the customer account data on the 
Company’s systems, and that party experiences a breach or 
misappropriates such data, the Company and its customers 
could suffer material harm, including heightened risk of fraudulent 
transactions, losses from fraudulent transactions, increased 
operational costs to remediate any security breach and 
reputational harm. These risks are expected to continue to 
increase as the Company expands its interconnectivity with its 
customers and other third parties. 

During the past several years a number of retailers and 
hospitality companies have disclosed substantial cyber security 
breaches affecting debit and credit card accounts of their 
customers, some of whom were the Company’s cardholders and 
who may experience fraud on their card accounts as a result of a 
breach. The Company might suffer losses associated with 
reimbursing its customers for such fraudulent transactions, as 
well as for other costs related to data security compromise 
events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised 
card accounts. These attacks involving Company cards are likely 
to continue and could, individually or in the aggregate, have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or 
results of operations. 

It is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate 
or to implement effective preventive measures against all security 
breaches of these types, because the techniques used change 
frequently, generally increase in sophistication, often are not 
recognized until launched, sometimes go undetected even when 
successful, and originate from a wide variety of sources, including 
organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, hostile foreign 
governments and other external parties. Those parties may also 
attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other 
users of the Company’s systems to disclose sensitive information 
to gain access to the Company’s data or that of its customers or 
clients, such as through “phishing” and other “social engineering” 
schemes. Other types of attacks may include computer viruses, 
malicious or destructive code, denial-of-service attacks, 
ransomware or ransom demands. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Company has experienced increased information 
security risks, primarily as a result of the increase in work-from­
home arrangements. These risks may increase in the future as 
the Company continues to increase its mobile and internet-based 
product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based 
products and applications, which is expected to remain elevated 
at least as long as the COVID-19 pandemic continues. In 
addition, the Company’s customers often use their own devices, 
such as computers, smart phones and tablet computers, to 

make payments and manage their accounts, and are subject to 
“phishing” and other attempts from cyber criminals to 
compromise or deny access to their accounts. The Company has 
limited ability to assure the safety and security of its customers’ 
transactions with the Company to the extent they are using their 
own devices, which have been, and likely will continue to be, 
subject to such threats. 

In the event that the Company’s physical or cyber security 
systems are penetrated or circumvented, or an authorized user 
intentionally or unintentionally removes, loses or destroys 
operations data, serious negative consequences for the 
Company can follow, including significant disruption of the 
Company’s operations, misappropriation of confidential Company 
and/or customer information, or damage to the Company’s or 
customers’ or counterparties’ computers or systems. These 
consequences could result in violations of applicable privacy and 
other laws; financial loss to the Company or to its customers; loss 
of confidence in the Company’s security measures; customer 
dissatisfaction; significant litigation exposure; regulatory fines, 
penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other compensatory 
costs (including the costs of credit monitoring services); additional 
compliance costs; and harm to the Company’s reputation, all of 
which could adversely affect the Company. 

Because the investigation of any information security breach is 

inherently unpredictable and would require substantial time to 
complete, the Company may not be able to quickly remediate the 
consequences of any breach, which may increase the costs, and 
enhance the negative consequences associated with a breach. In 
addition, to the extent the Company’s insurance covers aspects 
of any breach, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of 
the Company’s losses. 

The Company relies on its employees, systems and third 
parties to conduct its business, and certain failures by 
systems or misconduct by employees or third parties 
could adversely affect its operations The Company operates 
in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the 
ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of 
transactions. The Company’s business, financial, accounting, 
data processing, and other operating systems and facilities may 
stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a 
result of a number of factors, including events that are out of its 
control. In addition to the risks posed by information security 
breaches, as discussed above, such systems could be 
compromised because of spikes in transaction volume, electrical 
or telecommunications outages, degradation or loss of internet or 
website availability, natural disasters, political or social unrest, and 
terrorist acts. The Company’s business operations may be 
adversely affected by significant disruption to the operating 
systems that support its businesses and customers. If backup 
systems are used during outages, they might not process data as 
quickly as do the primary systems, resulting in the potential of 
some data not being backed up. 

The Company could also incur losses resulting from the risk of 

fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, 
unauthorized access to its computer systems, the execution of 

140 

unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to 
transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal 
control system and compliance requirements, and business 
continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes 
the potential legal actions, fines or civil money penalties that could 
arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of 
noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse 
business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition 
due to potential negative publicity. 

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s 
business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has 
selected these third parties carefully, it does not control their 
actions. Any problems caused by third-party service providers, 
including as a result of not providing the Company their services 
for any reason or performing their services poorly, could 
adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and 
services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct 
its business. Replacing third-party service providers could also 
entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of third-
party service providers to handle current or higher volumes of use 
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products 
and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. 
Technological or financial difficulties of a third-party service 
provider could adversely affect the Company’s businesses to the 
extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation 
of services provided by that party. 

Operational risks for large financial institutions such as the 

Company have generally increased in recent years, in part 
because of the proliferation of new technologies, implementation 
of work-from-home arrangements such as during the COVID-19 
pandemic, the use of internet services and telecommunications 
technologies to conduct financial transactions, the increased 
number and complexity of transactions being processed, and the 
increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, 
hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. In the 
event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper 
operation of systems or improper employee or third-party 
actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face legal or 
regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. 

The Company could face material legal and reputational 
harm if it fails to safeguard personal information The 
Company is subject to complex and evolving laws and 
regulations, both inside and outside the United States, governing 
the privacy and protection of personal information. Individuals 
whose personal information may be protected by law can include 
the Company’s customers (and in some cases its customers’ 
customers), prospective customers, job applicants, employees, 
and the employees of the Company’s suppliers, and third parties. 
Complying with laws and regulations applicable to the 
Company’s collection, use, transfer and storage of personal 
information can increase operating costs, impact the 
development and marketing of new products or services, and 
reduce operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse of 
personal information by the Company or a third party affiliated 

with the Company could expose the Company to litigation or 
regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. 

In the United States, several states have recently enacted 
consumer privacy laws that impose compliance obligations with 
respect to personal information. In particular, the California 
Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”) and its implementing 
regulations impose significant requirements on covered 
companies with respect to consumer data privacy rights. In 
November 2020, voters in the State of California approved the 
California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), a ballot measure that 
amends and supplements the CCPA by, among other things, 
expanding certain rights relating to personal information and its 
use, collection, deletion, and disclosure by covered businesses. 
Compliance with the CCPA, the CPRA after it becomes effective, 
and other state statutes, common law, or regulations designed to 
protect consumer, employee, or job applicant personal 
information could potentially require substantive technology 
infrastructure and process changes across many of the 
Company’s businesses. Non-compliance with the CCPA, CPRA, 
or similar laws and regulations could lead to substantial regulatory 
fines and penalties, damages from private causes of action, and/ 
or reputational harm. The Company cannot predict whether any 
pending or future state or federal legislation will be adopted, or 
the substance and impact of any legislation on the Company. 
Future legislation could result in substantial costs to the Company 
and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial 
condition and results of operations. 

In addition, standards for personal data transfers from outside 
the United States are constantly changing, including the revisions 
made by the European Economic Area and Switzerland in 2021. 
Compliance with these changes and any future changes to data 
transfer or privacy requirements could potentially require the 
Company to make significant technological and operational 
changes, any of which could result in substantial costs to the 
Company, and failure to comply with applicable data protection 
and privacy laws could subject the Company to fines or 
regulatory oversight. 

Additional risks could arise from the failure of the Company or 

third parties to provide adequate disclosure or transparency to 
the Company’s customers about the personal information 
collected from them and the use of such information; to receive, 
document, and honor the privacy preferences expressed by the 
Company’s customers; to protect personal information from 
unauthorized disclosure; or to maintain proper training on privacy 
practices for all employees or third parties who have access to 
personal information. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of the 
Company’s measures to safeguard personal information and 
abide by privacy preferences, or even the perception that those 
measures are inadequate, could cause the Company to lose 
existing or potential customers and thereby reduce its revenues. 
In addition, any failure or perceived failure by the Company to 
comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and 
regulations could result in requirements to modify or cease 
certain operations or practices, and/or in material liabilities or 
regulatory fines, penalties, or other sanctions. Refer to 

141 

“Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information regarding data privacy laws 
and regulations. Any of these outcomes could damage the 
Company’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its 
business. 

The Company could lose market share and experience 
increased costs if it does not effectively develop and 
implement new technology The financial services industry is 
continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent 
introductions of new technology-driven products and services, 
including innovative ways that customers can make payments or 
manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile 
payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. The growth of 
many of these technologies was accelerated as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the shift to increased digital activity. The 
Company’s continued success depends, in part, upon its ability 
to address customer needs by using technology to provide 
products and services that customers want to adopt and create 
additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. When 
launching a new product or service or introducing a new platform 
for the delivery of products and services, the Company might not 
identify or fully appreciate new operational risks arising from those 
innovations or might fail to implement adequate controls to 
mitigate those risks. Developing and deploying new technology-
driven products and services can also involve costs that the 
Company may not recover and divert resources away from other 
product development efforts. The Company may not be able to 
effectively develop and implement profitable new technology-
driven products and services or be successful in marketing these 
products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully 
keep pace with technological change affecting the financial 
services industry, including because larger competitors may have 
more resources to spend on developing new technologies or 
because non-bank competitors have a lower cost structure and 
more flexibility, could harm the Company’s competitive position 
and negatively affect its revenue and profit. 

Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely 
impact its business and financial results Reputation risk, or 
the risk to the Company’s business, earnings and capital from 
negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s business. 
Negative public opinion about the financial services industry 
generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the 
Company’s ability to keep and attract customers, investors, and 
employees and could expose the Company to litigation and 
regulatory action. Negative public opinion can result from the 
Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, 
including lending practices, cybersecurity breaches, failures to 
safeguard personal information, discriminating or harassing 
behavior of employees toward other employees or customers, 
mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, compensation 
practices, sales practices, regulatory compliance, mergers and 
acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and 
community organizations in response to that conduct. In addition, 
failure to deliver against environmental, social and governance 

(“ESG”) goals and objectives could present reputational and 
financial harm to the Company. Many of the Company’s 
stakeholders, including investors, communities, customers, and 
employees, have increased expectations regarding how 
corporations are establishing and meeting ESG objectives when 
considering whether to conduct business with, invest in, or 
otherwise work with the Company. If the Company is unable to 
design or execute against business strategies that support ESG 
initiatives, reputational damage could result, leading to a loss of 
customers or negative investor sentiment. Although the Company 
takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers 
and other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified 
financial services company with a high industry profile, is 
inherently exposed to this risk. 

The Company’s business and financial performance could 
be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by natural 
disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities Neither the occurrence nor the potential 
impact of natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil 
unrest or international hostilities can be predicted. However, 
these occurrences could impact the Company directly (for 
example, by interrupting the Company’s systems, which could 
prevent the Company from obtaining deposits, originating loans 
and processing and controlling its flow of business; causing 
significant damage to the Company’s facilities; or otherwise 
preventing the Company from conducting business in the 
ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the 
Company’s borrowers, depositors, other customers, vendors or 
other counterparties (for example, by damaging properties 
pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans or impairing the 
ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans). The Company 
could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that natural 
disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy 
in general or in any particular region. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company experienced 

significant disruptions to its normal operations, including the 
temporary closing of branches and a sudden increase in the 
volume of work-from-home arrangements. In addition, the 
Company has been indirectly negatively affected by the 
pandemic’s effects on the Company’s borrowers and other 
customers, and by its effects on global financial markets. Many of 
these effects are expected to continue for the duration of the 
pandemic and could worsen if the pandemic continues to spread 
or if any vaccines are not effective over the long term (including 
because of lack of acceptance or because of the emergence of 
new COVID variants), or if governmental and other responses to 
the pandemic are ineffective. The COVID-19 pandemic has 
caused, and other future natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist 
activities, civil unrest or international hostilities, may cause, an 
increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could 
result in the Company experiencing higher levels of 
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit 
losses. 

142 

The United States, and in particular, the Minneapolis/St. Paul 
metropolitan area following the tragic events that occurred in May 
2020, faced a period of significant civil unrest during 2020. 
Although civil unrest has not materially affected the Company’s 
businesses to date, similar events could, directly or indirectly, 
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations (for 
example, by causing shutdowns of branches or working locations 
of vendors or other counterparties or damaging property pledged 
as collateral for the Company’s loans). 

The Company’s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences 

of these occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of the 
Company’s resiliency planning, and the Company’s ability, if any, 
to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The 
adverse effects of natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, 
civil unrest or international hostilities also could be increased to 
the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of 
national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other 
organizations and businesses that the Company transacts with, 
particularly those that it depends upon, but has no control over. 
Additionally, both the frequency and severity of some kinds of 
natural disasters, including wildfires, flooding, tornadoes and 
hurricanes, have increased, and the Company expects will 
continue to increase, as a result of climate change. 

The Company’s business strategy, operations, financial 
performance and customers could be materially adversely 
affected by the impacts related to climate change There is 
an increasing concern over the risks of climate change and the 
impact that climate change may have on the Company and its 
customers and communities. The physical risks of climate change 
include increasing average global temperatures, rising sea levels 
and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather 
events and natural disasters, including wildfires, floods, tornadoes 
and hurricanes. Climate shifts and the increasing frequency and 
severity of natural disasters reduce the Company’s ability to 
predict accurately the effects of natural disasters. Such disasters 
could disrupt the Company’s operations or the operations of 
customers or third parties on which the Company relies. Such 
disasters could also result in market volatility, negatively impact 
customers’ ability to pay outstanding loans, damage collateral or 
result in the deterioration of the value of collateral. Such disasters 
may also result in reduced availability of insurance, including 
insurance that protects property pledged as collateral for 
Company loans, which could negatively affect the Company’s 
ability to predict credit losses accurately. 

Additionally, climate change concerns could result in transition 

risk. Transition risks could include changes in consumer 
preferences, new technologies, and additional legislation and 
regulatory requirements, including those associated with the 
transition to a low-carbon economy. These physical risks and 
transition risks could increase expenses or otherwise adversely 
impact the Company’s business strategy, operations, financial 
performance and customers. In particular, new regulations or 
guidance, or the attitudes of regulators, shareholders and 
employees regarding climate change, may affect the activities in 
which the Company engages and the products that the 

Company offers. In addition, an increasing perspective that 
financial institutions, including the Company, play an important 
role in managing risks related to climate change, including 
indirectly with respect to their customers, may result in increased 
pressure on the Company to take additional steps to disclose 
and manage its climate risks and related lending and other 
activities. The Company could also experience increased 
expenses resulting from strategic planning, litigation and 
technology and market changes, and reputational harm as a 
result of negative public sentiment, regulatory scrutiny and 
reduced investor and stakeholder confidence due to the 
Company’s response to climate change and the Company’s 
climate change strategy. 

Risks associated with climate change are continuing to evolve 
rapidly, making it difficult to assess the effects of climate change 
on the Company, and the Company expects that climate change-
related risks will continue to evolve and increase over time. 

Regulatory and Legal Risk 

The Company is subject to extensive and evolving 
government regulation and supervision, which can 
increase the cost of doing business, limit the Company’s 
ability to make investments and generate revenue, and 
lead to costly enforcement actions Banking regulations are 
primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, the federal 
Deposit Insurance Fund, and the United States financial system 
as a whole, and not the Company’s debt holders or 
shareholders. These regulations, and the Company’s inability to 
act in certain instances without receiving prior regulatory 
approval, affect the Company’s lending practices, capital 
structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to 
repurchase common stock, and ability to pursue strategic 
acquisitions, among other activities. 

The Company expects that its business will remain subject to 
extensive regulation and supervision and that the level of scrutiny 
and the enforcement environment may fluctuate over time, based 
on numerous factors, including changes in the United States 
presidential administration or one or both houses of Congress 
and public sentiment regarding financial institutions (which can be 
influenced by scandals and other incidents that involve 
participants in the industry). In particular, changes in 
administration may result in the Company and other large 
financial institutions becoming subject to increased scrutiny and/ 
or more extensive legal and regulatory requirements than under 
prior presidential and congressional regimes. In addition, changes 
in key personnel at the agencies that regulate the Company, 
including the federal banking regulators, may result in differing 
interpretations of existing rules and guidelines and potentially 
more stringent enforcement and more severe penalties than 
previously experienced. New regulations or modifications to 
existing regulations and supervisory expectations have increased, 
and may in the future increase, the Company’s costs over time 
and necessitate changes to the Company’s existing regulatory 
compliance and risk management infrastructure. In addition, 

143 

regulatory changes may reduce the Company’s revenues, limit 
the types of financial services and products it may offer, alter the 
investments it makes, affect the manner in which it operates its 
businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs should it 
fail to appropriately comply with new or modified laws and 
regulatory requirements, and increase the ability of non-banks to 
offer competing financial services and products. 

Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or their 

interpretation or implementation, and/or regulatory practices, 
requirements or expectations, could affect the Company in 
substantial and unpredictable ways. Moreover, general regulatory 
practices, such as longer time frames to obtain regulatory 
approvals for acquisitions and other activities (and the resultant 
impact on businesses the Company may seek to acquire), could 
affect the Company’s ability or willingness to make certain 
acquisitions or introduce new products or services. 

Federal law grants substantial supervisory and enforcement 

powers to federal banking regulators and law enforcement 
agencies, including, among other things, the ability to assess 
significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; 
to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate 
injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-
affiliated parties. The financial services industry continues to face 
scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and 
stringent enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state 
levels, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices, 
student lending practices, sales practices and related incentive 
compensation programs, and other consumer compliance 
matters, as well as compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti­
money laundering (“BSA/AML”) requirements and sanctions 
compliance requirements as administered by the Office of Foreign 
Assets Control, and consumer protection issues more generally. 
This heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of an 
investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory 
investigations or enforcement actions. There is no assurance that 
those actions will not result in regulatory settlements or other 
enforcement actions against the Company, which could cause 
the Company material financial and reputational harm. 
Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or 
regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping 
investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and 
state agencies and officials in the United States or, in some 
instances, regulators and other governmental officials in foreign 
jurisdictions. In addition, another financial institution’s violation of 
law or regulation relating to a business activity or practice often 
will give rise to an investigation of the same or similar activities or 
practices of the Company. 

In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in 
settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of 
other terms of regulatory settlements are likely to remain elevated. 
In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal 
pleas or other extraordinary terms, including admissions of 
wrongdoing and the imposition of monitors, as part of such 
settlements, which could have significant consequences for a 
financial institution, including loss of customers, reputational 

harm, increased exposure to civil litigation, restrictions on the 
ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate 
certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. 

Non-compliance with sanctions laws and/or BSA/AML laws or 

failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML compliance program 
can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational 
damage. In addition, federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness 
of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining 
whether to approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, 
restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a 
number of significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-
dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to 
sanctions laws and BSA/AML laws, and some have resulted in 
substantial penalties, including against the Company and U.S. 
Bank National Association in 2018. 

Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in 
risk management practices or consumer compliance also may be 
incorporated into the Company’s confidential supervisory ratings. 
A downgrade in these ratings, or these or other regulatory actions 
and settlements, could limit the Company’s ability to conduct 
expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or 
additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other 
business activities. 

Differences in regulation can affect the Company’s ability 
to compete effectively The content and application of laws and 
regulations applicable to financial institutions vary according to 
the size of the institution, the jurisdictions in which the institution 
is organized and operates and other factors. Large institutions, 
such as the Company, often are subject to more stringent 
regulatory requirements and supervision than smaller institutions. 
In addition, financial technology companies and other non-bank 
competitors may not be subject to the prudential and consumer 
protection regulatory framework that applies to banks, or may be 
regulated by a national or state agency that does not have the 
same regulatory priorities or supervisory requirements as the 
Company’s regulators. These differences in regulation can impair 
the Company’s ability to compete effectively with competitors 
that are less regulated and that do not have similar compliance 
costs. 

Stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity have 
been adopted by United States banking regulators that 
may limit the Company’s ability to return earnings to 
shareholders or operate or invest in its business United 
States banking regulators have adopted stringent capital- and 
liquidity-related standards applicable to larger banking 
organizations, including the Company. The rules require banks to 
hold more and higher quality capital as well as sufficient 
unencumbered liquid assets to meet certain stress scenarios 
defined by regulation. In November 2019, the federal banking 
regulators adopted two final rules (the “Tailoring Rules”) that 
revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory 
capital and liquidity requirements for large United States banking 
organizations, including the Company and U.S. Bank National 
Association, and that tailored the application of the Federal 

144 

Reserve’s enhanced prudential standards to large banking 
organizations. Although the Tailoring Rules and other recent 
changes to capital- and liquidity-related rules generally have 
simplified the regulatory framework applicable to the Company, 
future changes to the implementation of these rules including the 
common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, or additional 
capital- and liquidity-related rules, could require the Company to 
take further steps to increase its capital, increase its investment 
security holdings, divest assets or operations, or otherwise 
change aspects of its capital and/or liquidity measures, including 
in ways that may be dilutive to shareholders or could limit the 
Company’s ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase 
its common stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to its 
customers. 

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions by the 
Federal Reserve have in the past limited and may in the future 
limit capital distributions, including suspension of the Company’s 
share repurchase program or reduction or suspension of the 
Company’s common stock dividend. 

Additional capital and liquidity requirements may be imposed 
in the future. In December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized a 
package of revisions to the Basel III framework (commonly 
referred to as “Basel IV”). The changes are meant to improve the 
calculation of risk-weighted assets and the comparability of 
capital ratios. Federal banking regulators are expected to 
undertake rule-makings in future years to implement these 
revisions in the United States. The ultimate impact of revisions to 
the Basel III–based framework in the United States on the 
Company’s capital and liquidity will depend on the final rule-
makings and the implementation process thereafter. 

Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding 
the Company’s capital and liquidity requirements. 

The Company is subject to significant financial and 
reputation risks from potential legal liability and 
governmental actions The Company faces significant legal 
risks in its businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of 
damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental 
proceedings against it and other financial institutions are 
substantial. Customers, clients and other counterparties are 
making claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of 
damages, while banking regulators and certain other 
governmental authorities have focused on enforcement. The 
Company is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in 
many legal proceedings, including class actions and other 
litigation. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is 
likely that the Company will continue to experience a high level of 
litigation related to its businesses and operations in the future. 
Substantial legal liability or significant governmental action against 
the Company could materially impact the Company’s financial 
condition and results of operations (including because such 
matters may be resolved for amounts that exceed established 
accruals for a particular period) or cause significant reputational 
harm to the Company. 

Since 2020, many financial institutions, including the 

Company, have received regulatory and governmental inquiries 
regarding participation directly or on behalf of customers and 
clients in United States government programs designed to 
support individuals, households and businesses impacted by the 
economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
Company’s participation in these and other programs used in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic may lead to additional 
government and regulatory inquiries and litigation in the future, 
any of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, 
reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage 
loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties 
When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to 
various parties, including GSEs, it is required to make customary 
representations and warranties to the purchaser about the 
mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. 
The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 
be subject to indemnification claims in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 
within a certain period. Contracts for residential mortgage loan 
sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 
penalties that could be applied if the Company does not 
adequately respond to repurchase requests. If economic 
conditions and the housing market deteriorate or the GSEs 
increase their claims for breached representations and 
warranties, the Company could have increased repurchase 
obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring 
material increases to its repurchase reserve. 

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk 

Heightened credit risk could require the Company to 
increase its provision for credit losses, which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of 
operations and financial condition When the Company lends 
money, or commits to lend money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk 
of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the 
largest lenders in the United States, the credit performance of the 
Company’s loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results 
and condition. If the current economic environment were to 
further deteriorate, the Company’s customers may have more 
difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations, which could 
result in a higher level of credit losses and higher provisions for 
credit losses. Unexpected stress on the United States economy 
or the local economies in which the Company does business, 
including the economic stress caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic, has resulted, and in the future may result, in, among 
other things, unexpected deterioration in credit quality of the loan 
portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing those loans, which, 
during the COVID-19 pandemic caused, and in the future could 
cause, the Company to establish higher provisions for credit 
losses. 

145 

The Company reserves for credit losses by establishing an 

allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan 
defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s allowance for loan 
losses is compliant with the CECL methodology, which is based 
on the portfolio’s historical loss experience, an evaluation of the 
risks associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and 
composition of the loan portfolio, current and foreseeable 
economic conditions and borrower and collateral quality. These 
conditions inform the Company’s expected lifetime loss estimates 
of the portfolio, which is the foundation for the allowance for 
credit losses. These forecasts and estimates require difficult, 
subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of 
economic conditions and how these economic predictions might 
impair the ability of the Company’s borrowers to repay their 
loans. The Company may not be able to accurately predict these 
economic conditions and/or some or all of their effects, which 
may, in turn, negatively impact the reliability of the process. The 
Company also makes loans to borrowers where it does not have 
or service the loan with the first lien on the property securing its 
loan. For loans in a junior lien position, the Company may not 
have access to information on the position or performance of the 
first lien when it is held and serviced by a third party, which may 
adversely affect the accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of 
these types. Increases in the Company’s allowance for loan 
losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and 
future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely 
affect its financial results. In addition, the Company’s ability to 
assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if 
the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and 
underwrite its customers become less predictive of future 
behaviors. 

A concentration of credit and market risk in the Company’s 
loan portfolio could increase the potential for significant 
losses The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience 
higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by 
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 
borrower or collateral. For example, the Company’s credit risk 
and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in similar 
activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic 
or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related 
to climate change. Deterioration in economic conditions or real 
estate values in states or regions where the Company has 
relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real 
estate could result in higher credit costs. For example, once the 
Company’s expected acquisition of MUFG Union Bank closes, 
deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic 
conditions in California could result in significantly higher credit 
losses to the Company. 

Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the 
Company’s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held 
for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue 
volatile from quarter to quarter, which can reduce its 
earnings The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, which is the 
right to service a mortgage loan—collect principal, interest and 

escrow amounts—for a fee, with a fair value of $3.0 billion as of 
December 31, 2021. The Company initially carries its MSRs using 
a fair value measurement of the present value of the estimated 
future net servicing income, which includes assumptions about 
the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest 
rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. 
When interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as 
borrowers refinance, and the fair value of MSRs can decrease, 
which in turn reduces the Company’s earnings. Further, it is 
possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or 
deteriorating housing market, even when interest rates fall or 
remain low, mortgage originations may fall or any increase in 
mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease 
in the MSRs’ value caused by the lower rates. 

A decline in the soundness of other financial institutions 
could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations 
The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement 
transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and 
commercial soundness of other domestic or foreign financial 
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a 
result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The 
Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the 
Company routinely executes and settles transactions with 
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers 
and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and 
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults 
by, or even rumors or questions about, the soundness of one or 
more financial services institutions, or the financial services 
industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the 
Company or by other institutions and impact the Company’s 
predominately United States–based businesses or the less 
significant merchant processing, corporate trust and fund 
administration services businesses it operates in foreign 
countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to 
credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In 
addition, the Company’s credit risk may be further increased 
when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon 
or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of 
the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is no 
assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect the 
Company’s results of operations. 

Change in residual value of leased assets may have an 
adverse impact on the Company’s financial results The 
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk 
that the residual value of the property under lease will be less 
than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in 
the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on 
the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the 
realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual 
values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s 
control, including supply and demand for the assets, condition of 
the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic 
factors. 

146 

Liquidity Risk 

Competitive and Strategic Risk 

If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, its 
business could suffer The Company’s liquidity is essential for 
the operation of its business. Market conditions, unforeseen 
outflows of funds or other events could negatively affect the 
Company’s level or cost of funding, affecting its ongoing ability to 
accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet 
contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business 
transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If the 
Company’s access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, 
such as customer deposits, is reduced, the Company might need 
to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of 
limited availability. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged 
changes in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the 
Company’s business. 

Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company’s 
funding costs The Company relies on bank deposits to be a 
low-cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes 
with banks and other financial services companies for deposits, 
including those that offer on-line channels. If the Company’s 
competitors raise the interest rates they pay on deposits, the 
Company’s funding costs may increase, either because the 
Company raises the interest rates it pays on deposits to avoid 
losing deposits to competitors or because the Company loses 
deposits to competitors and must rely on more expensive 
sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the Company’s 
net interest margin and net interest income. Checking and 
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits 
may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, 
such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return 
tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and 
into other investments, the Company may lose a relatively 
low-cost source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding 
costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income. 

The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for 
its liquidity needs, and the payment of those dividends is 
limited by laws and regulations The Company is a separate 
and distinct legal entity from U.S. Bank National Association and 
its non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives a significant 
portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These 
dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on 
the Company’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. 
Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of 
dividends that U.S. Bank National Association and certain of its 
non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without 
regulatory approval. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a 
distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s 
creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company’s claims 
as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized. Refer to 
“Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information regarding limitations on the 
amount of dividends U.S. Bank National Association may pay. 

The financial services industry is highly competitive, and 
competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect 
the Company’s financial results The Company operates in a 
highly competitive industry that could become even more 
competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological 
changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may 
increase in connection with current economic and market 
conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-
capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are 
capable of offering a wider array of financial products and 
services at more competitive prices. The Company competes 
with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, 
mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking 
companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card 
companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory 
companies. Legislative or regulatory changes also could lead to 
increased competition in the financial services sector. For 
example, the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules have 
reduced the regulatory burden of large bank holding companies, 
including the Company and some of its competitors, and raised 
the asset thresholds at which more onerous requirements apply, 
which could cause certain large bank holding companies with 
less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, which were 
previously subject to more stringent enhanced prudential 
standards, to become more competitive or to pursue expansion 
more aggressively. 

The adoption and rapid growth of new technologies, including 

cryptocurrencies and blockchain and other distributed ledger 
technologies, have required the Company to invest resources to 
adapt its systems, products and services, and it expects to 
continue to make similar investments. In addition, technology has 
lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to 
offer products and services, such as loans and payment services, 
that traditionally were banking products, and made it possible for 
technology companies to compete with financial institutions in 
providing electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone–based 
financial solutions. Competition with non-banks, including 
technology companies, to provide financial products and services 
is intensifying. In particular, the activity of financial technology 
companies (“fintechs”) has grown significantly over recent years 
and is expected to continue to grow. Fintechs have and may 
continue to offer bank or bank-like products. For example, a 
number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan 
charters, which, in some cases, have been granted. In addition, 
other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to 
offer deposit products or payment services to their customers. 
Many of these companies, including the Company’s competitors, 
have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost 
structures, in part due to lack of physical structures. Also, the 
potential need to adapt to industry changes in information 
technology systems, on which the Company and financial 
services industry are highly dependent, could present operational 
issues and require capital spending. The Company’s ability to 

147 

compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, 
among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic plans 
and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term 
customer relationships based on quality service, competitive 
prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and 
industry and general economic trends. A failure to compete 
effectively could contribute to downward price pressure on the 
Company’s products or services or a loss of market share. 

The Company may need to lower prices on existing 
products and services and develop and introduce new 
products and services to maintain market share The 
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its 
products and services to evolving industry standards. There is 
increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower 
prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company’s net interest 
margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In 
addition, the adoption of new technologies or further 
developments in current technologies require the Company to 
make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing 
products and services. Also, these and other capital investments 
in the Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth 
in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The 
Company might not be successful in developing or introducing 
new products and services, adapting to changing customer 
preferences and spending and saving habits (which may be 
altered significantly and with little warning, such as during the 
COVID-19 pandemic), achieving market acceptance of its 
products and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining 
loyal customer relationships. 

The Company may not be able to complete future 
acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not produce 
revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within 
timeframes originally anticipated, may result in unforeseen 
integration difficulties, and may dilute existing 
shareholders’ interests The Company regularly explores 
opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets 
and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or 
financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, 
size or timing of acquisitions it might pursue. 

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory 

approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. 
The Company’s ability to pursue or complete an attractive 
acquisition could be negatively impacted by regulatory delay or 
other regulatory issues. The Company cannot be certain when or 
if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory 
approvals will be granted. For example, the Company may be 
required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory 
approval for bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain 
regulatory violations, including those that result in a downgrade in 
certain of the Company’s bank regulatory ratings, governmental 
authorities could, as a consequence, preclude it from pursuing 
future acquisitions for a period of time. 

In July 2021, the United States presidential administration 

issued an executive order on competition, which included 

provisions relating to bank mergers. These provisions encourage 
the Department of Justice and the federal banking regulators to 
update guidelines on banking mergers and to provide more 
scrutiny of bank mergers. A number of large bank deals that were 
pending at the time of the executive order have not yet obtained 
approval, or obtained approval on an extended time frame. The 
Company is unable to predict what impact the executive order or 
any updated guidelines on banking mergers the Department of 
Justice or federal banking regulators may implement will have on 
the timing of or ability to obtain regulatory approvals of mergers, 
including its pending acquisition of MUFG Union Bank. In 
addition, changes in personnel at the Company’s federal banking 
regulators or shifts in public or Congressional sentiment regarding 
bank mergers could result in additional requirements on, or 
scrutiny of, bank mergers, any of which could make it more 
difficult for banking organizations to obtain merger approvals. The 
Company is unable to predict the nature or scope of any such 
changes, any of which could adversely affect its business or the 
approval of its pending acquisition of MUFG Union Bank. 

If the Company’s pending acquisition of MUFG Union Bank is 
not completed for any reason, the Company’s ongoing business 
may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the 
benefits of having completed the merger, the Company would be 
subject to a number of risks. These risks include potential 
negative reactions from the financial markets or the Company’s 
customers, including negative effects on the Company’s stock 
price or reputation. In addition, the Company will have incurred 
substantial expenses relating to the merger, including legal, 
accounting, and other fees, whether or not the merger is 
completed, and the Company’s management will have devoted 
substantial time and resources to the merger that would 
otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may 
have been more beneficial for the Company. 

There can be no assurance that acquisitions the Company 
completes will have the anticipated positive results, including 
results related to expected revenue increases, cost savings, 
increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other 
projected benefits. Integration efforts could divert management’s 
attention and resources, which could adversely affect the 
Company’s operations or results. The integration could result in 
higher than expected customer loss, deposit attrition, loss of key 
employees, disruption of the Company’s businesses or the 
businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely 
affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with 
customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of 
the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures 
required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business 
combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, future 
acquisitions may also expose the Company to increased legal or 
regulatory risks. Finally, future acquisitions could be material to 
the Company, and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay 
for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ 
ownership interests. 

148 

Accounting and Tax Risk 

General Risk Factors 

The Company’s reported financial results depend on 
management’s selection of accounting methods and 
certain assumptions and estimates, which, if incorrect, 
could cause unexpected losses in the future The Company’s 
accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the 
Company records and reports its financial condition and results 
of operations. The Company’s management must exercise 
judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting 
policies and methods, so they comply with generally accepted 
accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment 
regarding the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s 
financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, 
management must select the accounting policy or method to 
apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 
reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the 
Company’s reporting materially different results than would have 
been reported under a different alternative. 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. They 
require management to make difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different 
amounts could be reported under different conditions or using 
different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting 
policies include the allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair 
value, the valuation of MSRs, and income taxes. Because of the 
uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company 
may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly 
increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit 
losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, 
recognize significant losses on the remeasurement of certain 
asset and liability balances, or significantly increase its accrued 
taxes liability. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting 
Policies” in this Annual Report. 

The Company’s investments in certain tax-advantaged 
projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may 
have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results 
The Company invests in certain tax-advantaged projects 
promoting affordable housing, community development and 
renewable energy resources. The Company’s investments in 
these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through 
the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other 
tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is subject 
to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain 
subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance 
features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet 
certain government compliance requirements and will not be able 
to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credit and 
other tax benefits can have a negative impact on the Company’s 
financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax 
credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside 
of the Company’s control, including changes in the applicable tax 
code and the ability of the projects to be completed. 

The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be 
effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company The 
Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk 
and loss. The Company has established processes and 
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and 
analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity 
risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, 
strategic risk, reputation risk, and operational risk related to its 
employees, systems and vendors, among others. However, as 
with any risk management framework, there are inherent 
limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there 
may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not 
appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company 
relies on quantitative models to measure certain risks and to 
estimate certain financial values, and these models could fail to 
predict future events or exposures accurately. The Company 
must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management 
among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with 
third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s 
risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company 
could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and 
suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or 
results of operations. 

The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to attract 
and retain skilled employees The Company’s success 
depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key 
employees. Competition for the best people in most activities the 
Company engages in can be intense. 

COVID-19 has had significant effects on labor and 

employment, including heightened pressures on employers to 
increase compensation and provide work-from-home and other 
flexible working arrangements. During the COVID-19 pandemic, 
employees have shifted their focus to expectations that extend 
beyond compensation, including better work-life balance, 
improved advancement opportunities and improved training, and 
many businesses, including the Company, have experienced 
higher rates of turnover as a result of such changes. The 
Company’s ability to compete successfully for talent has been 
and may continue to be affected by its ability to adapt quickly to 
such shifts in employee focus, and there is no assurance that 
these developments will not cause increased turnover or impede 
the Company’s ability to retain and attract the highest caliber 
employees. 

A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could have a 
material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding costs and 
access to capital markets The Company’s credit ratings, 
which are subject credit agencies’ ongoing review of a number of 
factors, including factors not within the Company’s control, are 
important to the Company’s liquidity. A reduction in one or more 
of the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, 
increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital 
markets. Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of 
investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or 

149 

otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Company, thereby 
adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. There 
can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current 
ratings and outlooks. 

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact 
the Company’s financial statements From time to time, the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial 

accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 
of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be 
hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company 
records and reports its financial condition and results of 
operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or 
revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard 
differently, on a retroactive basis, in each case potentially 
resulting in the Company restating prior period financial 
statements. 

150 

