morgan_stanley_2024_Q2

Morgan Stanley Wealth Division Is Probed
Multiple federal regulators are probing Morgan Stanley over how it vets clients who are at risk of laundering
money through the bank's sprawling wealth-management division.          
The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and other Treasury
Department offices are involved, according to people familiar with the matter. That is in addition to the
Federal Reserve, whose similar probe The Wall Street Journal reported in November. The Fed has told the
bank that supervisory action is under consideration.                    
The main issues regulators are looking at boil down to whether Morgan Stanley has been sufficiently
investigating the identities of prospective clients and where their wealth comes from, as well as how it
monitors its clients' financial activity. Some of the probes are focused on the bank's international clients.
The bank has been working on addressing the issues regulators have raised. When asked about some of the
regulatory scrutiny in January, Morgan Stanley's former chief executive and current executive chairman,
James Gorman, told the Journal the bank is investing in compliance, technology and artificial intelligence to
better understand the flow of money tied to its wealth business.        
Morgan Stanley shares fell sharply after the Journal reported on the wider probe and closed down more than
5%.                                                                     
The SEC last year sent Morgan Stanley a list of current and former clients with questions about how they
were vetted. It also questioned why Morgan Stanley's financial-adviser unit, which works directly with affluent
individuals, did business with some clients who were cut off by E*Trade, the Morgan Stanley-owned
digital-trading platform, because of red flags.                         
The SEC's list includes a billionaire with ties to Russia who has been sanctioned by the U.K. and an individual
who said she was based in the U.S. but whose activity on E*Trade indicated she was located on a Caribbean
island and had more money in her account than would be typical for someone with her stated occupation.
The Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, known as FinCEN, also sent the bank a list of client
names, at least some overlapping with the SEC's. Morgan Stanley also received an administrative subpoena
from the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control requesting information on the firm's sanctions policies
and procedures, according to a bank document viewed by the Journal.     
The OCC late last year sent Morgan Stanley what is known as a matter requiring attention over customer due
diligence. That followed an annual exam of the bank's anti-money-laundering and related programs,
according to some of the people and a Morgan Stanley document that says the firm sent detailed action plans
to the regulator.                                                       
Morgan Stanley's wealth unit has been critical to the firm's strategy since the 2008-09 financial crisis. The
bank made several acquisitions, including those of Smith Barney and, more recently, E*Trade, that turned it
into a wealth-management juggernaut overseeing a total of about $5 trillion. The division, which accounts for
about half of the company's total revenue, generates steady revenue streams Morgan Stanley relies on to
help smooth out downturns in investment banking and trading.            
The wealth division has been showing signs of slowing down, with revenue flat in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier. Net new assets totaled $47.5 billion in the period, down 8% from a year earlier after a 45%
decline in the third quarter.                                           

Wealth Management Is Risky for Banks --- Catering to the rich offers high returns and room for
growth, but it isn't for every big lender                               
Among banks valued above $100 billion, Morgan Stanley and UBS have been the top stock-market
performers of the past half-decade. Both companies bet on wealth management and private banking. Morgan
Stanley, now the highest-valued big bank in the world, acquired asset manager Eaton Vance and online
broker E*Trade with a goal of managing $10 trillion in client assets.