 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Refer to the risk factors disclosed under Item 1A. of our 2019 Form 10-K for a discussion of certain material risks and uncertainties that management believed affect our business. The following risk factors are provided to supplement that discussion. 

Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic (including the possibility of resurgence of COVID-19 after initial abatement), the effectiveness of our Business Continuity and Health Emergency Response plans, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our employees, customers, clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants, and actions taken, or that may yet be taken, or inaction by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to: 

&#8226; Increased unemployment and business disruption and decreased consumer and business confidence and consumer and commercial activity generally, leading to an increased risk of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. 

&#8226; Higher and more volatile credit loss expense and potential for increased charge-offs, particularly as customers may need to draw on their committed credit lines to help finance their businesses and activities. 

&#8226; Ratings downgrades, credit deterioration and defaults in many industries, particularly energy and natural resources, restaurants, hospitality, entertainment, transportation and commercial real estate. 

&#8226; A sudden and significant reduction in the valuation of the equity, fixed-income and commodity markets and the significant increase in the volatility of those markets. 

&#8226; A decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury securities, which may lead to decreased net interest income. 

&#8226; Increased demands on capital and liquidity, leading us to cease repurchases of our common stock in order to preserve capital and provide added liquidity. 

&#8226; A reduction in the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer or service for others, affecting related fee income and demand for our services. 

&#8226; Heightened cybersecurity, information security and operational risks as a result of work-from-home arrangements and impacts on our service providers. 

Any disruption to our ability to deliver financial products or services to, or interact with, our clients and customers could result in losses or increased operational costs, regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions, or harm our reputation. 

As noted in the section captioned &#8220;Recent Developments Related to COVID-19&#8221; in Part I. Financial Information, Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations elsewhere in this report, the Federal Reserve has taken various actions and the U.S. government has enacted several fiscal stimulus measures to counteract the economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We face an increased risk of litigation and governmental, regulatory and third-party scrutiny as a result of the effects of COVID-19 on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. Furthermore, various governmental programs such as the PPP are complex and our participation may lead to additional litigation and governmental, regulatory and third-party scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. For example, our participation in the PPP as a lender may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations depending on the timing and amount of forgiveness, if any, to which our borrowers will be entitled. 

The length of the pandemic and the efficacy of the extraordinary measures being put in place to address it are unknown. Until the pandemic subsides, we expect continued draws on lines of credit, reduced fee income and revenues related to investment management, insurance and brokerage operations and increased customer and client defaults, including defaults of 

Table of Co ntents 

unsecured loans. Even after the pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may continue to experience a recession, and we anticipate our businesses would be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged recession. To the extent the pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our 2019 Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. See the section captioned &#8220;Recent Developments Related to COVID-19&#8221; in Part I. Financial Information, Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations elsewhere in this report for further discussion. 

We Are Subject To Volatility Risk In Crude Oil Prices 

As of June 30, 2020, we had $1.4 billion of energy loans which comprised approximately 7.9% of our loan portfolio at that date. Furthermore, energy production and related industries represent a large part of the economies in some of our primary markets. In recent years, actions by certain members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (&#8220;OPEC&#8221;) impacting crude oil production levels have led to increased global oil supplies, which has resulted in significant declines in market oil prices. Decreased market oil prices compressed margins for many U.S. and Texas-based oil producers, particularly those that utilize higher-cost production technologies such as hydraulic fracking and horizontal drilling, as well as oilfield service providers, energy equipment manufacturers and transportation suppliers, among others. In March of 2020, disagreements between members of OPEC signaled that production levels would rise and led to a significant decline in market oil prices. While oil prices have recovered from recent lows, on-going oil price volatility and depressed market oil prices, are expected to continue due to the uncertainties and economic impacts of COVID-19. See the section captioned &#8220;Recent Developments Related to COVID-19&#8221; in Part I. Financial Information, Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations elsewhere in this report for further discussion. The price per barrel of crude oil was approximately $39 as of June 30, 2020 down from $61 as of December 31, 2019. We have experienced increased losses within our energy portfolio recently as a result of depressed oil prices and increased oil price volatility, relative to our historical experience. Continued and further depressed oil prices and increased oil price volatility could have further negative impacts on the U.S. economy, in particular, the economies of energy-dominant states such as Texas, and our borrowers and customers. 

