Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and the table of contents preserved:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2022_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman Seeks Wider Reach in Apple Tie-Up ........................................................................................................ 2
          Stock Picking Makes Comeback In Market Turmoil ................................................................................................. 4
                                                                                  
          Goldman Scouts Out Fintech Businesses................................................................................................................ 6
                                                                                  
          Goldman Pushes Engineers Into Light................................................................................................................... 16
                                                                                  
          Goldman To Reach Consumers Its Own Way ....................................................................................................... 17
          Goldman Profit Slides 43% As Bank Details Big Shake-Up................................................................................... 19
                                                                                  
          As Goldman Restructures, Profits Fall ................................................................................................................... 22
          Goldman to Combine Businesses Into 3 Units....................................................................................................... 24
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          GoldmanSeeksWiderReachinAppleTie-Up                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman Seeks Wider Reach in Apple Tie-Up                               
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          845 words                                                               
          23 December 2022                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has scaled back plans to provide banking services for the masses. On its own, at
          least.                                                                  
          For years, Apple Inc. has been asking big U.S. banks to allow their customers to view deposit-account
          balances on its digital wallet, according to people familiar with the matter. The banks largely have declined,
          the people said, wary of ceding the customer experience to Apple and becoming simply the financial
          plumbing behind the scenes.                                             
          But Goldman has been happy to oblige.                                   
          A relative newcomer in consumer banking, the Wall Street giant has expanded and extended a partnership
          with Apple that began a few years ago with a credit card. Goldman is working on a high-yield savings account
          for Apple cardholders. It is also going to provide some of the back-end services that will allow Apple to offer
          "buy now, pay later" plans.                                             
          The partnership reflects Goldman's revamped approach to consumer banking, a business it launched a few
          years ago to great fanfare that has yet to turn a profit. The bank has abandoned plans to build a full-service
          consumer bank in favor of providing banking services to wealth-management customers and through
          partnerships with companies such as Apple.                              
          Banks and technology companies have been in a heated race for years to build a financial super app -- one
          that offers banking, payment and investing services. Facebook, now known as Meta Platforms Inc., tried and
          failed to build a futuristic cryptocurrency network. Google last year abandoned a plan to pitch checking
          accounts to users of its digital wallet.                                
          "There's absolutely an opportunity to reshape how people interact with financial institutions," said Bob
          O'Donnell, president at TECHnalysis Research, a market-research firm. "Everything is done on the phone, so
          why wouldn't the financial management piece also happen on the phone?"  
          Apple, piggybacking off its ultra-popular iPhone and Apple Pay service, is trying to pull ahead of the pack.
          The idea is to build a technology ecosystem that satisfies people's many daily financial needs all in one
          place.                                                                  
          "It's driving loyalty and engagement with the iPhone and maybe the iPad -- it's about the Apple ecosystem,"
          said Ron Shevlin, chief research officer at Cornerstone Advisors, a banking and fintech advisory firm.
                                                                                  
          But Apple can't do much without the cooperation of banks like Goldman. In October, the companies unveiled
          plans for the high-yield savings account where Apple Card customers would be able to deposit funds and
          earn interest on their cash-back rewards. The account will be separate from Goldman's own high-yield
          savings account, known as Marcus.                                       
          Apple also sees big potential in buy now, pay later plans -- whose popularity has soared in recent years.
          Apple will connect to merchants through the Mastercard Inc. network. Goldman will serve as the sponsor,
          essentially issuing a card number that merchants will receive when consumers pay using the service.
          The arrangement is in keeping with Goldman's broader plans to expand into payments. The bank has sought
          to position itself as a technology player behind the scenes, according to people familiar with the matter,
          rather than a brand in its own right.                                   
          That is just what Apple was looking for when it sought a bank partner for its credit-card program a few years
          ago. The tech giant wanted more control over certain aspects of the program than many issuers were willing
          to give, people familiar with the matter said. For example, people apply for the card through Apple; the
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          application isn't available on Goldman's website, though the bank is responsible for evaluating potential
          borrowers.                                                              
          Apple's insistence on controlling the customer experience has turned off other banks.
                                                                                  
          Apple Pay, for example, is the default tap-to-pay option for the iPhone. That has prevented banks from
          launching or growing their own payment wallets. JPMorgan Chase & Co. shut down its Chase Pay service
          last year, in part because of the iPhone limitations, people familiar with the matter said. Capital One Financial
          Corp., too, has pulled plans for its own wallet, in part because of Apple Pay, the people said.
          A recent proposed class-action lawsuit brought by several credit unions accused Apple of violating antitrust
          law in restricting access to technology that could be used to enable other wallets on Apple devices.
          Banks also have been trying to keep Apple Pay from becoming a bigger player in payments, including with
          the recent rollout of tap-to-pay debit and credit cards that compete directly with the service. The decision to
          introduce the technology was partly spurred by a desire to make it as easy to use cards in stores as it is to
          use Apple Pay, according to people familiar with the matter.            
          Some of the same banks that rushed to work with Apple Pay when it first rolled out in 2014 now regret that
          decision, The Wall Street Journal previously reported, because of the fees they pay on card purchases made
          using the wallet.                                                       
          Document J000000020221223eicn0000q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          StockPickingMakesComebackInMarketTurmoil                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Stock Picking Makes Comeback In Market Turmoil                          
          By Hardika Singh                                                        
          825 words                                                               
          21 December 2022                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B13                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          It is finally a good time to be a stock picker.                         
          About 55% of actively managed large-cap mutual funds are on pace to beat their benchmarks this year,
          according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. through Nov. 16. That would mark the largest share
          since 2007, when 71% of funds did so.                                   
          Stock pickers had a tough time during the decade after the 2008 financial crisis, as a monster run in big
          technology stocks powered a bull market that drove major indexes to dozens of highs.
          Stocks such as Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. became so big that they dominated the
          S&P 500, which is weighted by market value. Investors poured money into passive investments that tracked
          the index, earning easy returns as those shares soared. Stock pickers who actively managed their funds
          struggled to compete.                                                   
          Conditions have since changed.                                          
                                                                                  
          Red-hot inflation, higher interest rates and worries about a potential recession have created new winners and
          losers in the stock market. Investors have bailed out of big tech stocks and instead snapped up shares of
          energy companies and other defensive stocks that stand to fare better in a downturn.
          Those shares, however, have a much smaller influence on the direction of the broader market. With
          technology displaced from the market's leaderboard, the percentage of stocks outperforming the S&P 500
          as of Monday was the highest in roughly two decades, according to Dow Jones Market Data.
          That has opened a window for stock pickers, many of whom have still suffered losses, even if they squeaked
          past their benchmarks. Actively managed U.S. open-end funds had a negative total return of 5.8% through
          November, according to Morningstar Direct.                              
          "Buy an exchange-traded fund and everything is going to go well -- that's not going to work anymore," said
          Justin Burgin, head of equity research at Ameriprise Financial. Mr. Burgin said investors have to find
          attractive stocks instead of just buying and holding an index fund.     
          The S&P 500 has fallen 20% in 2022 and is on pace for its worst year since 2008. (An equal-weighted
          version of the index that gives the same status to both the smallest and largest companies is down a more
          modest 14%.)                                                            
                                                                                  
          The outlook for next year remains murky as well. Although inflation has begun to cool, Federal Reserve Chair
          Jerome Powell reiterated last week that the central bank isn't done lifting rates and said he expects them to
          rise higher next year than previously forecast.                         
          Higher rates have sapped the appeal of tech and other growth stocks because they lower the future value of
          their projected earnings. Apple shares have fallen about 26% in 2022, Amazon has lost 49% and Microsoft
          has slumped 28%.                                                        
          Many investors say the tech industry's hardships often filter through the economy.
                                                                                  
          "This is the most expected recession I've ever seen in my career, and it's going to shock people when it
          actually happens," said Michael Kelly, global head of multiasset at PineBridge Investments. Mr. Kelly said
          investors should buy stocks, such as those of energy companies and long-duration growth stocks, that can
          power through a recessionary environment.                               
          Some of the market's biggest winners in 2022 include Exxon Mobil Corp., up 74%; gas and power company
          PG&E Corp., up 31% and fertilizer manufacturer CF Industries Holdings Inc., up 32%.
          Page 4 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Analysts say they expect active strategies to extend their dominance next year, largely because the S&P 500
          is still top-heavy.                                                     
          The five largest companies represent more than 20% of the index, above the peak levels during the tech
          bubble, according to Bank of America analysts.                          
          Still, passive funds account for 55% of all assets under management at U.S. exchange-traded funds and
          mutual funds, Goldman Sachs data show. And investors have poured a net $520 billion in U.S.-based
          passively managed open-end funds and ETFs this year, while pulling $805 billion from actively managed
          funds, according to Morningstar Direct data through November.           
          "You need to check your weights, you need to better manage risk in the portfolio because all of that has
          mattered again," said Matt Orton, chief market strategist at Raymond James Investment Management. "You
          were able to just buy Apple or Amazon or Tesla [Inc.] and you know your risk-adjusted returns were great
          because the stocks only moved in one direction."                        
          Despite their change in fortunes this year, many investors are hesitant to turn their back on technology.
                                                                                  
          Mr. Burgin from Ameriprise said he wouldn't bet against Microsoft and Apple because of the ubiquity of their
          products. His firm, for example, uses Microsoft Teams and other Microsoft products, and he said he doesn't
          expect that to change.                                                  
          "I know a lot of people that would skip their rent payments to get a new iPhone," Mr. Burgin said.
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020221221eicl0000i                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          GoldmanScoutsOutFintechBusinesses                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman Scouts Out Fintech Businesses                                   
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          418 words                                                               
          9 November 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has expressed interest in buying a payments-technology firm to further build out
          its credit-card capabilities, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Goldman executives discussed acquiring Deserve, a fintech credit-card platform that the bank has close ties
          to, according to people familiar with the matter. Executives sounded out another fintech credit-card platform
          called Cardless and a payments company called CoreCard Corp., the people said.
          Outreach from Goldman's executives to Deserve executives began last year, people familiar with the matter
          said. The most recent overture came last month, they said.              
          No official discussions are currently taking place between Goldman and the companies, the people said.
                                                                                  
          A Goldman spokesman said the bank has already built technology platforms that enable it to help card
          partners grow their businesses and serve their customers.               
          "We have the ability to scale these businesses with our existing technology and are not currently looking for
          acquisitions in the space," the spokesman said.                         
          Long the epitome of high finance, Goldman has been trying to round out its investment-banking and trading
          units in part by growing its cards business. But progress has been slow.
                                                                                  
          Goldman previously bid to take over the credit-card programs of JetBlue Airways Corp. and Macy's Inc. but
          lost out. The bank successfully bid to take over the General Motors Co. credit-card program in 2020, but
          technology glitches delayed the rollout, the Journal previously reported.
          In 2019, Goldman launched a credit card with Apple Inc., and Apple encourages cardholders to use the card
          with Apple Pay.                                                         
          Goldman recently announced a broad restructuring that included moving its card partnerships with Apple and
          GM into a new unit called Platform Solutions.                           
          Bulking up its payment technology could help Goldman better compete against bigger banks when bidding
          on credit-card partnerships, people familiar with the matter said. Executives wanted to better prepare for what
          they believed would be a string of tech companies that would want to quickly launch credit-card programs
          embedded within their apps, the people said.                            
          Goldman is CoreCard's biggest customer by consolidated revenue, according to a recent regulatory filing by
          CoreCard.                                                               
                                                                                  
          Deserve currently powers credit cards for private student-loan lender Sallie Mae, financial-services startup
          GloriFi, BlockFi's crypto rewards credit card and others.               
          Goldman became an investor in Deserve in 2019, and a Goldman managing director is on Deserve's board.
          The bank recently facilitated a credit line for Deserve.                
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020221109eib90001q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 27 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---WhereSixInvestorsThinktheMarketsAreGoing---Amidhighinflation,acryptocrashandstockswings,theprosoutline...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Where Six Investors Think the Markets Are Going --- Amid high inflation, a crypto
          crash and stock swings, the pros outline which indicators they're watching, the lessons they see, and
          how they're calling it                                                  
          1,795 words                                                             
          29 October 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A massive selloff in bonds. A plunge in tech stocks. The implosion of cryptocurrencies. The highest inflation in
          four decades.                                                           
          Amid a brutal and uncertain climate, we asked six heavyweights