MD&A
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, Citi demonstrated continued progress across the franchise during 2021: • Citi’s earnings increased significantly versus the prior year, largely reflecting an allowance for credit loss (ACL) release of approximately $8.8 billion as a result of continued improvement in both the macroeconomic environment and portfolio credit quality. • Citi’s revenues declined 5% from the prior year. Excluding a pretax loss of approximately $0.7 billion (approximately $0.6 billion after-tax) related to Citi’s agreement to sell its Australia consumer banking business in Asia Global Consumer Banking (GCB) (see “Citigroup” below), Citi’s revenues declined 4%, as strength in investment banking, equity markets, the private bank and securities services in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) was more than offset by normalization in market activity in fixed income markets within ICG, as well as the impact of lower deposit spreads and card loans across GCB. • Citi’s expenses included pretax costs of approximately $1.2 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) primarily related to charges incurred from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer banking business (for additional information, see “Asia GCB” below). • Citi continued to invest in its transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, and make business-led investments. • Citi had broad-based deposit growth across ICG and GCB (up 3% and 5%, respectively), reflecting continued engagement across both corporate and consumer clients. • Citi returned approximately $11.8 billion of capital to its common shareholders in the form of $4.2 billion in dividends and $7.6 billion in common share repurchases, totaling approximately 105 million common shares, while maintaining robust regulatory capital ratios. • In addition to the sale announcements related to Asia GCB, Citi also announced it intends to exit the consumer, small business and middle-market banking operations of Citibanamex in Mexico. Citi’s planned divestitures of its consumer businesses across Mexico, Asia and EMEA are aligned with the repositioning of its consumer operations to focus on global wealth centers, as well as payments and lending and a targeted retail presence in the U.S. (For additional information on the exit markets and Citi’s revised reporting structure effective for the first quarter of 2022, see “Strategic Refresh—Market Exits and Revised Reporting Strategy” above and “Latin America GCB” and “Asia GCB” below.) Although economic growth and employment rates have continued to recover from pandemic-related lows, particularly in the U.S., various macroeconomic and other challenges and uncertainties related to, among other things, the duration and severity of the pandemic-related public health crisis, disruptions of global supply chains, inflationary pressures, increasing interest rates and geopolitical tensions involving Eastern Europe, will continue to create uncertainty around Citi’s businesses and results. For a discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2022, see “2021 Results Summary,” “Risk Factors,” each respective business’s results of operations and “Managing Global Risk” below.


2021 Results Summary 
Citigroup 
Citigroup reported net income of $22.0 billion, or $10.14 per share, compared to net income of $11.0 billion, or $4.72 per share, in the prior year. The increase in net income was driven by lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 20%, up modestly from 19% in the prior year. Earnings per share increased significantly, primarily driven by net income. Citigroup revenues of $71.9 billion decreased 5% from the prior year. Excluding the Australia loss on sale, Citigroup revenues decreased 4%, primarily driven by lower revenues in both ICG and GCB, partially offset by higher revenues in Corporate/Other. As discussed above, Citi’s 2021 results include the impacts of divestitures of Citi’s consumer banking businesses in Asia. Reported revenues include the Australia loss on sale (approximately $0.7 billion pretax, $0.6 billion after-tax), primarily reflecting the impact of a currency translation adjustment (CTA) loss (net of hedges) already reflected in the Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) component of equity. Upon closing, the CTA balance will be removed from the AOCI component of equity, resulting in a neutral impact to Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. Reported expenses include the impact of the Korea VERP of approximately $1.1 billion (approximately $0.8 billion after-tax) and contract modification costs related to the Asia divestitures of approximately $119 million (approximately $98 million after-tax). (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of the Australia loss on sale, Korea VERP and other Asia divestiture-related costs are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the divestiturerelated impacts described above provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its broader results and Asia GCB businesses’ results for investors, industry analysts and others.) Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 1% from the prior year to $668 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were largely unchanged, as growth in ICG was offset by lower loans in GCB and Corporate/Other. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits 7 increased 3% to $1.3 trillion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 4%, reflecting growth in both GCB and ICG. (As used throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of FX translation provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses for investors, industry analysts and others.)


Expenses 
Citigroup operating expenses of $48.2 billion increased 9% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Asia divestitures, expenses of $47.0 billion increased 6%, primarily reflecting investments in Citi’s transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. Citi expects expenses in 2022 to continue to be impacted by its transformation-related and business-led investments.


Cost of Credit 
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims were a benefit of $3.8 billion, compared to a cost of $17.5 billion in the prior year primarily related to the pandemic. The decreased cost of credit was driven by a net ACL reserve release of $8.8 billion (versus a build of $9.8 billion in the prior year) as well as lower net credit losses. Citi’s net ACL release primarily reflected improvement in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook and portfolio credit quality. Citi could experience higher credit costs in 2022, as the level of ACL releases from 2021 are unlikely to continue, and Citi expects to build ACL reserves for new lending volumes. For further information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates— Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)” below. Net credit losses of $4.9 billion declined 36% from the prior year. Consumer net credit losses of $4.5 billion decreased 32%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes and improved delinquencies in the North America cards portfolios. Corporate net credit losses of $395 million decreased 60%, primarily reflecting improvements in portfolio credit quality. For additional information on Citi’s consumer and corporate credit costs and ACL, see each respective business’s results of operations and “Credit Risk” below.


Capital 
Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.2% as of December 31, 2021, based on the Basel III Standardized Approach framework for determining risk-weighted assets, compared to 11.5% as of December 31, 2020, based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets. The increase in the ratio primarily reflected actions to reduce risk-weighted assets (RWA) and a temporary pause in common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021, in preparation for the implementation of the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022. Citi resumed common share repurchases in January 2022. Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 5.7% as of December 31, 2021, compared to 7.0% as of December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by the expiration of temporary relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as of the end of the first quarter of 2021. For additional information on SA-CCR and Citi’s capital ratios, see “Capital Resources” below


Institutional Clients Group 
ICG net income of $15.7 billion increased 36%, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher expenses and lower revenues. ICG operating expenses increased 8% to $26.5 billion, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and revenue- and transaction-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. ICG revenues of $43.9 billion decreased 3%, as a 7% increase in Banking revenues was more than offset by an 11% decline in Markets and securities services revenues. The increase in Banking revenues included the impact of $144 million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending and the private bank, compared to losses of $51 million in the prior year. Banking revenues of $23.3 billion (excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges) increased 7%, as higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank were partially offset by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $7.5 billion increased 30%, reflecting growth across products, particularly in advisory and equity underwriting. Advisory revenues increased 78% to $1.8 billion, equity underwriting revenues increased 53% to $2.4 billion and debt underwriting revenues increased 3% to $3.3 billion. Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $9.4 billion declined 4%, as higher fee revenues, including a recovery in commercial card revenues, as well as growth in trade were more than offset by the impact of lower deposit spreads. Private bank revenues increased 5%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges, private bank revenues of $4.0 billion increased 6%, driven by higher loan volumes and spreads, as well as higher managed investments and deposits, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues decreased 3%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $2.3 billion decreased 1%, as lower cost of funds was more than offset by lower loan volumes. Markets and securities services revenues of $20.8 billion decreased 11%. Fixed income markets revenues of $13.7 billion decreased 22%, reflecting a normalization in market activity across rates and spread products. Equity markets revenues of $4.5 billion increased 25%, driven by growth across all products, reflecting solid client activity and favorable market conditions. Securities services revenues of $2.7 billion increased 6%, as strong fee revenues, driven by higher settlement volumes and higher assets under custody, were partially offset by lower deposit spreads. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG in 2021, see “Institutional Clients Group” below.


Global Consumer Banking 
GCB net income was $6.1 billion, compared to net income of $667 million in the prior year, reflecting lower cost of credit, partially offset by lower revenues and higher expenses. GCB operating expenses of $20.0 billion increased 12%. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Asia divestitures, expenses increased 5%, reflecting continued investments in Citi’s transformation, as well as business-led investments and volume-related expenses, partially offset by productivity savings. GCB revenues of $27.3 billion decreased 10% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, revenues decreased 9%, as continued solid deposit growth and growth in assets under management were more than offset by lower card loans and lower deposit spreads. For additional information on GCB’s results of operations, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking” below. North America GCB revenues of $17.5 billion decreased 9%, with lower revenues across branded cards, retail services and retail banking. Branded cards revenues of $8.2 billion decreased 7%, reflecting continued higher payment rates. Retail services revenues of $5.1 billion decreased 15%, reflecting continued higher payment rates and lower average loans as well as higher partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $4.2 billion decreased 7%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes was more than offset by lower deposit spreads and lower mortgage revenues. North America GCB average deposits of $206 billion increased 17% year-over-year and average retail banking loans of $50 billion decreased 4% year-over-year, while assets under management of $87 billion increased 8%. Average branded cards loans of $81 billion decreased 4% and average retail services loans decreased 7%, reflecting higher payment rates. Branded cards spend volume of $411 billion increased 21% and retail services spend volume of $92 billion increased 18%, reflecting a recovery in sales activity from the pandemicdriven low levels in the prior year. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB in 2021, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” below. International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) of $9.8 billion declined 11% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, international GCB revenues declined 7%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Latin America GCB revenues decreased 9%, driven by lower average loans and lower deposit spreads. Excluding the impact of FX translation and the Australia loss on sale, Asia GCB revenues decreased 6%, reflecting lower spreads, partially offset by higher investment revenues. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB in 2021, including the impacts of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below. For additional information on Citi’s consumer banking business in Australia, see “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below. Year-over-year, excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB average deposits of $146 billion increased 5%, average retail banking loans of $72 billion decreased 3% and assets under management of $145 billion increased 5%. On this basis, international GCB average card loans of $20 billion decreased 13%, while credit card spend volumes of $100 billion increased 9%, reflecting a continued recovery in credit card spend activity from the pandemic-related low levels in the prior year.


Corporate/Other 
Corporate/Other net income was $215 million, compared to a net loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, reflecting higher revenues, lower expenses, lower cost of credit, and the release of a foreign tax credit (FTC) valuation allowance. Operating expenses of $1.6 billion decreased 14%, reflecting the absence of the prior year’s civil money penalty and the wind-down of legacy assets, partially offset by increases related to Citi’s transformation. Corporate/Other revenues of $667 million compared to $71 million in the prior year, primarily driven by higher net revenue from the investment portfolio. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2021, see “Corporate/Other” below.


CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE 
Citi has embarked on a multiyear transformation, with the target outcome to change Citi’s business and operating models such that they simultaneously strengthen risk and controls and improve Citi’s value to customers, clients and shareholders. This includes efforts to effectively implement the October 2020 FRB and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) consent orders issued to Citigroup and Citibank, respectively. In the second quarter of 2021, Citi made an initial submission to the OCC, and submitted its plans to address the consent orders to both regulators during the third quarter of 2021. Citi continues to work constructively with the regulators, and will continue to reflect their feedback in its project plans and execution efforts. As discussed above, Citi’s efforts include continued investments in its transformation, including the remediation of its consent orders. Citi's CEO has made the strengthening of Citi's risk and control environment a strategic priority and has established a Chief Administrative Officer organization to centralize program management. In addition, the Citigroup and Citibank Boards of Directors each formed a Transformation Oversight Committee, an ad hoc committee of each Board, to provide oversight of management’s remediation efforts under the consent orders. For additional information about the consent orders, see “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” below and Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020.