MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


Third Quarter of 2020—Results Reflected Solid Performance and Continued Financial Strength and Operational Resilience Despite a Challenging Macroeconomic Environment
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, during the third quarter of 2020, Citi demonstrated solid performance and continued financial strength and operational resilience, despite continued weakness in economic conditions during the quarter due to the COVID-19 pandemic:


•Citi’s revenues were impacted by the challenging environment, declining 7% from the prior-year period, as strong performance in fixed income markets, investment banking, equity markets and the private bank in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) was more than offset by lower revenues in Global Consumer Banking (GCB), reflecting declines across all regions, and lower revenues in Corporate/Other.
•Citi’s results included a $400 million civil money penalty, recorded in expenses in Corporate/Other, in connection with a consent order Citibank entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (for additional information, see below). Citi’s expenses also reflected continued investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls.
•Citi’s cost of credit increased 8%, meaningfully lower relative to the first half of 2020, as an increase in ICG’s allowance for credit losses (ACL) was partially offset by decreases in GCB and Corporate/Other.
•Citi had broad-based deposit growth across ICG and GCB, reflecting strong client engagement, as well as an elevated level of liquidity in the financial system, while also strengthening Citi’s available liquidity.
•Citi returned $1.1 billion of capital to its common shareholders in the form of dividends.
•Citi continued to support its employees, customers and clients as well as the broader economy during this challenging time (see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” below), while maintaining a strong balance sheet.


The economic outlook for the remainder of 2020 has been lowered, and continued uncertainties around the pandemic, including, among others, the duration and severity of the economic and public health impacts, have created a more volatile operating environment that will likely continue to negatively impact Citi’s businesses and results in the near term.
For a discussion of risks and uncertainties related to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview,” “Risk Factors” and each respective business’s results of operations below. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that could affect Citi, see “Forward-Looking Statements” below as well as each respective business’s results of operations and “Managing Global Risk” and “Risk Factors” in Citi’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.




On October 7, 2020, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued consent orders with Citigroup and Citibank, respectively. The consent orders require that Citigroup and Citibank submit acceptable plans to the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, on various timelines, relating principally to various aspects of risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance, and internal controls. Citibank also entered into a consent order with the OCC to pay the $400 million civil money penalty. Citi is committed to thoroughly addressing the matters identified by the consent orders, as an essential part of Citi’s broader efforts to enhance its infrastructure, governance and processes. Citi has centralized its program management and is making the strengthening of its risk and control environment a further priority for the Company. Citi is focused on committing all of the necessary resources for this multi-year transformation, while continuing to serve its customers and clients. For additional information regarding the consent orders, see Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020.


Third Quarter of 2020 Results Summary


Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $3.2 billion, or $1.40 per share, compared to net income of $4.9 billion, or $2.07 per share, in the prior-year period. Net income declined 34%, driven by the lower revenues, the higher expenses, higher credit costs and a higher effective tax rate. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 20% in the current quarter compared to 18% in the prior-year period, reflecting the impact of the non-deductible civil money penalty this quarter. Earnings per share decreased 32%, primarily driven by the decline in net income.
Citigroup revenues of $17.3 billion decreased 7% from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting the lower revenues in GCB and Corporate/Other, partially offset by higher revenues in ICG.
Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 4% from the prior-year period to $667 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), Citigroup’s end-of-period loans also declined 4%, driven by a 3% aggregate decline in GCB and ICG, reflecting a higher level of repayments in GCB and ICG, reduced drawdowns in ICG and lower spend activity in GCB. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 16% to $1.3 trillion, as reported and excluding the impact of FX translation, primarily driven by 17% growth in GCB and 16% growth in ICG. (Citi’s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures.)








3
________________




Expenses
Citigroup operating expenses of $11.0 billion increased 5% versus the prior-year period, as the civil money penalty, investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, higher compensation and pandemic-related expenses more than offset efficiency savings and reductions in marketing and other discretionary spending. Year-over-year, GCB operating expenses declined 3%, while ICG expenses increased 3% and Corporate/Other expenses increased to $969 million compared to $485 million in the prior-year period.


Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of $2.3 billion increased 8% from the prior-year period, largely reflecting the increase in ICG’s ACL reserves, partially offset by the decreases in GCB and Corporate/Other. Citi’s ACL build was $0.3 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of continued uncertainty surrounding the macroeconomic outlook, partially offset by lower volumes in GCB and the ACL release in Corporate/Other, as well as the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs in international GCB. For further information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL build, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below.
Net credit losses of $1.9 billion were largely unchanged. Consumer net credit losses of $1.6 billion decreased 12%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes given higher payment rates and lower spending activity, as well as the benefits of relief programs. Corporate net credit losses increased from $110 million to $325 million, primarily driven by write-offs across various sectors, and were largely offset by the release of previously established ACL reserves.
For additional information on Citi’s consumer and corporate credit costs and ACL, see each respective business’s results of operations and “Credit Risk” below.


Capital
Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.8% as of September 30, 2020, based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for determining risk-weighted assets, compared to 11.6% as of September 30, 2019, based on the Basel III Standardized Approach for determining risk-weighted assets. The increase in the ratio primarily reflected net income.
Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 6.8% as of September 30, 2020, compared to 6.3% as of September 30, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by a decrease in Total Leverage Exposure reflecting the benefit of temporary relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board. For additional information on Citi’s capital ratios and related components, see “Capital Resources” below.




Global Consumer Banking
GCB net income of $1.1 billion declined 30% from the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, net income declined 29%, reflecting lower revenues, partially offset by lower cost of credit and lower expenses. GCB operating expenses of $4.2 billion decreased 3%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, expenses decreased 2%, as lower volume-related expenses, reductions in marketing and other discretionary spending and efficiency savings were partially offset by increases in pandemic-related expenses.
GCB revenues of $7.2 billion decreased 13%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 12%, as strong deposit growth and momentum in Asia wealth management were more than offset by lower card volumes and the impact of lower interest rates across all regions, reflecting the continued impact from the pandemic.
North America GCB revenues of $4.5 billion decreased 13%, with lower revenues across Citi-branded cards, Citi retail services and retail banking. Citi-branded cards revenues of $2.1 billion decreased 12%, reflecting lower purchase sales and higher payment rates driving lower average loans. Citi retail services revenues of $1.4 billion decreased 21%, reflecting lower average loans as well as higher partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $1.1 billion decreased 2%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes and an improvement in mortgage revenues were more than offset by lower deposit spreads.
North America GCB average deposits of $182 billion increased 19% year-over-year, average retail banking loans of $53 billion increased 10% year-over-year and assets under management of $73 billion increased 7%. Average Citi-branded card loans of $81 billion decreased 10% and Citi-branded card purchase sales of $86 billion decreased 9%, driven by reduced customer activity related to the pandemic. The decline in average Citi-branded cards loans was also due to higher payment rates. Average Citi retail services loans of $45 billion decreased 10% and Citi retail services purchase sales of $20 billion decreased 8%, both driven by reduced customer activity. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB for the third quarter of 2020, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” below.
International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) of $2.6 billion declined 15% versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB revenues declined 12%, largely reflecting the impact of the pandemic. On this basis, Latin America GCB revenues decreased 10%, driven by lower average loans and lower interest rates, partially offset by strong deposit growth. Asia GCB revenues decreased 13%, as lower card purchase sales and lower interest rates were partially offset by strong investment revenues. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB for the third quarter of 2020, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below.
Year-over-year, international GCB average deposits of $138 billion increased 13%, average retail banking loans of
4
________________




$72 billion increased 3%, assets under management of $126 billion increased 6%, average card loans of $21 billion decreased 11% and card purchase sales of $22 billion decreased 18%, all excluding the impact of FX translation.


Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $2.9 billion decreased 10%, as the revenue growth was more than offset by higher cost of credit and higher expenses. ICG operating expenses increased 3% to $5.8 billion, largely driven by continued investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, as well as higher compensation costs.
ICG revenues of $10.4 billion increased 5%, reflecting a 16% increase in Markets and securities services revenues, partially offset by a 4% decline in Banking revenues. The decrease in Banking revenues included the impact of $124 million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending and the private bank, compared to losses of $33 million related to corporate lending in the prior-year period.
Banking revenues of $5.3 billion (excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges) decreased 2%, as increases in investment banking and the private bank were more than offset by declines in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $1.4 billion increased 13%, reflecting solid growth in capital markets, particularly in equity underwriting. Advisory revenues decreased 41% to $163 million, while equity underwriting revenues increased 96% to $484 million and debt underwriting revenues increased 5% to $740 million.
Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $2.4 billion declined 6%, and 4% excluding the impact of FX translation, as strong client engagement and growth in deposits were more than offset by the impact of lower interest rates and reduced commercial card spend. Private bank revenues of $938 million increased 8% (excluding gain (loss) on loan hedges), driven by increased capital markets activity and improved managed investments revenues, as well as higher lending and deposit volumes, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues of $414 million declined 39%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $538 million declined 25%, as higher loan volumes were more than offset by lower spreads.
Markets and securities services revenues of $5.2 billion increased 16%. Fixed income markets revenues of $3.8 billion increased 18%, driven by strong performance across spread products and commodities. Equity markets revenues of $875 million increased 15%, as solid performance in cash equities and derivatives was partially offset by lower revenues in prime finance. Securities services revenues of $631 million decreased 5%, and 4% excluding the impact of FX translation, as higher deposit volumes were more than offset by lower spreads. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG for the third quarter of 2020, see “Institutional Clients Group” below.




Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net loss was $723 million in the third quarter of 2020, compared to net income of $191 million in the prior-year period, reflecting the lower revenues and increased expenses, partially offset by a larger ACL release on the legacy portfolio. Operating expenses of $969 million increased significantly, as the wind-down of legacy assets was more than offset by the civil money penalty, investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls and incremental costs associated with the pandemic. Corporate/Other revenues of $(224) million compared to $434 million in the prior-year period, reflecting the wind-down of legacy assets, the impact of lower rates and marks on securities. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other for the third quarter of 2020, see “Corporate/Other” below.


5
________________






COVID-19 PANDEMIC OVERVIEW
In addition to the widespread public health implications, the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic has had an extraordinary impact on macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and around the world. As discussed below and elsewhere throughout this Form 10-Q, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition have been impacted by economic dislocations caused by the pandemic. Citi had builds to its allowance for credit losses (ACL) of approximately $10.8 billion during the first nine months of 2020, bringing its ACL to approximately $28.9 billion at September 30, 2020, with an allowance for credit losses on loans (ACLL) reserve ratio of 4.00% on funded loans. For additional information, see “Covid-19 Pandemic Overview—Impact of CECL on Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses” below.
Despite these impacts, Citi has remained well positioned from a capital and liquidity perspective and has maintained strong business operations. At September 30, 2020, Citi had a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 11.8%, a Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.8% and a Liquidity Coverage ratio of 118%, each well above regulatory minimums, with approximately $965 billion of available liquidity resources (see “Capital Resources” and “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below).
Governments and central banks globally have taken a series of aggressive actions to support the economy and mitigate the systemic impacts of the pandemic, and Citi continues to proactively assess and utilize these measures where appropriate. For additional information on Citi’s pandemic response and other pandemic-related information, see Citi’s First and Second Quarters 2020 Forms 10-Q.


Citi’s COVID-19 Pandemic Response—Supporting Employees, Customers and Communities
The health and safety of Citi’s employees and their families, as well as Citi’s customers, clients and communities it serves, are of the utmost importance. As the public health crisis has unfolded, Citi has continued to take proactive measures to preserve their well-being while maintaining its ability to serve customers and clients.


Citi Employees
•The majority of Citi employees—nearly two-thirds—around the world are working remotely.
•Citi is pursuing a slow and measured reentry in some locations where local conditions permit, beginning with only a small number of colleagues.
•Citi’s response teams are consulting with health experts and following local government guidelines in determining the safest return to the office for each location.
•Citi has reconfigured its sites and implemented new protocols to make work environments as safe as possible in offices, branches and ATMs.
•Citi is providing additional health and well-being resources for colleagues, plus enhanced flexibility and paid time off for colleagues impacted by COVID-19.
•The company continues to monitor the situation as it evolves and will review and update operations as needed.




Citi Communities
In addition to Citi’s core business activities, the Company is supporting those immediately impacted by this crisis through philanthropic efforts around the world. Citi and the Citi Foundation have committed more than $100 million to date in support of COVID-19-related community relief and economic recovery efforts globally. These contributions include over $4 million raised through an employee donation matching program to further global relief efforts—the “Double the Good” employee donation campaign. Having exceeded the $2 million goal in donations, Citi is donating $500,000 to each of the four organizations selected by Citi’s regions to address unique challenges: United Nations Development Programme (Asia Pacific), International Rescue Committee (Europe, Middle East and Africa), the International Organization for Migration (Latin America) and Direct Relief (North America).


Citi Consumer Loan Relief Programs
As previously disclosed, Citi was one of the first banks in the U.S. to announce assistance measures for pandemic-impacted consumer customers. Citi has offered a wide array of programs globally for different types of products, providing short- and medium-term relief to customers as a result of the pandemic. The relief has primarily been in the form of payment deferrals and fee waivers. These consumer relief programs have mainly been provided to GCB customers, with a small portion of customers reported within Corporate/Other. For further information on Citi’s measures to support its customers and clients in response to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Overview” in the First and Second Quarters of 2020 Forms 10-Q.
The table below provides information on the number of loan modifications, the associated enrollment and outstanding balances as of September 30, 2020, for Citi’s pandemic-related relief programs, excluding troubled debt restructurings (for additional information, see “Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief” below).


As set forth in the table above, during the third quarter of 2020, consumer relief programs, excluding TDRs, had approximately 0.6 million of loan modifications, with associated enrollment balances of approximately $2.1 billion. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, Citi’s
consumer relief programs had approximately 4.6 million of loan modifications with approximately $23.6 billion of associated enrollment balances, excluding TDRs. Approximately $5.9 billion of loans under the consumer loan relief programs were outstanding as of September 30, 2020,
7
________________




representing approximately 2% of Citi’s total consumer loan balance.
Citi’s North America credit card programs had the largest number of loan modifications. As these credit card relief programs were introduced during the first half of 2020, and offered a deferral of minimum payments for two to four payment cycles, most customers rolled off the programs. By the end of the third quarter, approximately 89% of credit card customers had rolled off these programs, of which approximately 86% have continued to make payments. As of September 30, 2020, Citi had approximately $0.9 billion of loan balances outstanding under the credit card relief programs. For customers enrolled in mortgage forbearance programs, Citi’s subservicer offered payment deferrals for up to 12 months, and by the end of the third quarter, approximately 23% of mortgage customers had rolled off the program, of which approximately 88% have continued to make payments. As of September 30, 2020, Citi had approximately $2.2 billion of mortgage loan balances outstanding. As of September 30, 2020, Citi had approximately $3.6 billion of loan balances outstanding under its consumer relief programs in North America.
In Asia, approximately 91% of customers had rolled off the consumer relief programs as of September 30, 2020, of which approximately 94% have continued to make payments. As of September 30, 2020, Citi had approximately $1.2 billion of loan balances outstanding under Asia consumer relief programs.
In Mexico, approximately 93% of customers had rolled off the consumer relief programs as of September 30, 2020, of which approximately 90% have continued to make payments. As of September 30, 2020, Citi had approximately $1.2 billion of loan balances outstanding under Mexico consumer relief programs.


Citi Corporate Loan Relief Programs
Citi has modified the contractual terms of corporate loans to certain borrowers impacted by the pandemic, primarily commercial banking (small business) and private bank customers. These modifications consist primarily of deferrals in the payment of principal and/or interest that Citi has provided during the second and third quarters of 2020 in response to borrower requests, as well as those provided pursuant to government-mandated relief programs.
The table below shows Citi’s outstanding corporate loan modifications, excluding TDRs. Approximately $1.4 billion of the $8.2 billion presented below relates to modifications provided in the third quarter.
Citi’s Management of COVID-19 Pandemic Risks
Citi’s dedicated continuity of business and crisis management groups are managing Citi’s protocols in response to the pandemic. Among other things, the protocols address the prioritization of critical processing; ability of staff and third parties to support these processes from remote work locations; deployment of new hardware to support technology needs; and ongoing monitoring to assess controls and service levels. For additional information about Citi’s management of pandemic-related risks, see Citi’s First Quarter of 2020 Form 10-Q.


For the remainder of 2020, Citi expects that overall revenues, including GCB, ICG and Corporate/Other revenues, will likely continue to be adversely impacted by the lower interest rate environment. GCB and ICG revenues will also be affected by the challenging macroeconomic and market conditions, including the effects related to the severity and duration of the pandemic as well as the responses of governments, customers and clients. In particular, each GCB region is expected to continue to experience the adverse impacts from the pandemic on customer activity, including lower card purchase sales and loan volumes, while Latin America GCB is also likely to continue to experience a more pronounced impact from macroeconomic weakness in Mexico. Citi also expects that ICG Markets and investment banking revenues will continue to reflect overall market conditions, including a normalization of business trends compared to the first nine months of 2020 and a seasonal decline in the fourth quarter.
In addition, Citi expects to incur higher expenses, as it continues to accelerate its investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, including its efforts to improve the risk and control environment, as well as to comply with the consent orders (see “Executive Summary” above). Citi’s expenses will also be impacted by uncertainties related to the pandemic, including its continued efforts to protect and support employees and to support customers and clients digitally.
Moreover, in the near term, Citi expects to experience net credit losses similar to the third quarter of 2020, although this may vary by business and region and is dependent on future macroeconomic conditions. If Citi’s third quarter of 2020 macroeconomic forecast assumptions are realized, the Company does not expect additional reserve builds on its existing portfolios (for additional information, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below); however, the overall level of reserves remains dependent on the evolving economic and public health environments relative to this forecast, as well as new lending volumes. For additional information about significant risks to Citi from the pandemic, see “Risk Factors” below.






8
________________




Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)
The table below shows the impact of Citi’s adoption of CECL as of January 1, 2020 and the ACL during the first, second and third quarters of 2020. For information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL build in the third quarter, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policy on accounting for credit losses under CECL, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 in Citi’s First Quarter of 2020 Form 10-Q.


Capital Plan Resubmission and Related Limitations on Capital Distributions
In June 2020, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) determined that changes in financial markets and macroeconomic outlooks related to the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material effect on the risk profile and financial condition of each firm subject to its capital plan rule, and therefore require updated capital plans. Citigroup resubmitted its capital plan on November 2, 2020.
Through the end of the fourth quarter of 2020, share repurchases continue to be prohibited and dividends continue to be capped and tied to a formula based on recent income. These limitations on capital distributions may be extended by the FRB.
Citi declared common dividends of $0.51 per share for the fourth quarter of 2020 on October 22, 2020, which was not impacted by the FRB’s temporary limitations on capital distributions. For additional information about the capital plan resubmission and related limitations on capital distributions, see “Capital Resources” below.


Certain Key Government Actions in Support of the Economy


U.S. Government-Sponsored Liquidity Programs
During the first quarter of 2020, the FRB introduced several liquidity facilities in response to the funding market volatility caused by the pandemic. Citi has participated in several of the U.S. government-sponsored liquidity programs, including the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (MMLF), the Primary Dealer Credit Facility (PDCF) and Discount Window (DW) in order to facilitate client activity and support the FRB actions to provide additional liquidity into the market. Citi has also participated in the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility (PPPLF), which was established to facilitate lending under the SBA’s Paycheck Protection Program (see “Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program” below). The amounts Citi sourced from these facilities were not significant to Citi’s overall liquidity profile during the third quarter, which remains strong and highly liquid. For additional information about Citi’s liquidity resources, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.


U.S. Banking Agencies Regulatory Capital Relief
In response to the pandemic, throughout 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued several final rules and interim final rules revising the current regulatory capital standards, to provide banking organizations with additional flexibility to support consumers and businesses. Those rules applicable to Citi include:


•Easing of capital distribution limits in the event of regulatory capital buffer breaches, which provides some flexibility to continue distributing capital under certain circumstances.
•Modification of the CECL transition provision to defer the January 1, 2020 capital impact to January 1, 2022 and to provide additional capital relief for ongoing increases in credit reserves. Citi’s reported Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at September 30, 2020, reflecting the
modified CECL transition provision, was 43 basis points higher than Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, reflecting the full impact of CECL on regulatory capital.
•Temporary Supplementary Leverage ratio (SLR) relief for bank holding companies, commencing in the second quarter of 2020, allowing Citigroup to temporarily expand its balance sheet by excluding U.S. Treasury securities and deposits with the FRB from the SLR denominator. Citigroup’s reported Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.83% benefited 103 basis points during the third quarter of 2020 as a result of the temporary relief. Excluding the temporary relief, Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio would have been 5.80%, compared with a 5.0% effective minimum requirement.
•Assigning a 0% risk weight to loans originated under the Paycheck Protection Program.


For additional information about regulatory capital relief provided by the U.S. banking agencies, see “Capital Resources” below.


Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief
Under U.S. GAAP, banks are required to assess modifications to a loan’s terms for potential classification as a TDR. A loan to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty is classified as a TDR when a lender grants a concession that it would otherwise not consider, such as a payment deferral or interest concession. In order to encourage banks to work with impacted borrowers, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and U.S. banking agencies have provided relief from TDR accounting. The main benefits of TDR relief include a capital benefit in the form of reduced risk-weighted assets, as TDRs are more heavily risk-weighted for capital purposes; aging of the loans is frozen, i.e., they will continue to be reported in the same delinquency bucket they were in at the time of modification; and the loans are generally not reported as non-accrual during the modification period. The loans included in Citi’s pandemic consumer relief programs are included in Citi’s reserving process under the CECL standard.


Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program
The Paycheck Protection Program (the Program) authorizes the origination of forgivable loans to small businesses to pay their employees during the pandemic. Loan terms are the same for all businesses. Among other programs, Citi is participating in the Paycheck Protection Program and has funded over 30,000 loans totaling $3.8 billion as of September 30, 2020, with approximately $3.7 outstanding at September 30, 2020. Citi remains committed to supporting small businesses. The processing of loan forgiveness requests under the Program began during the third quarter of 2020 and the timing for processing will determine whether there is significant forgiveness in the fourth quarter of 2020.








10
________________




RISK FACTORS


Macroeconomic and Other Challenges and Uncertainties Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic Will Likely Continue to Have Negative Impacts on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The COVID-19 pandemic has become global, affecting all of the countries and jurisdictions where Citi operates. The pandemic and responses to it have had, and will likely continue to have, a severe impact on global economic conditions, although the impacts will likely vary from time to time by region, country or state, largely depending on the duration and severity of the public health consequences, including availability of any effective therapeutic or vaccine and public response. These impacts to global economic conditions include, among others:


•sharply reduced U.S. and global economic output, resulting in significant losses of employment and lower consumer spending, cards purchase sales and loan volumes;
•lower interest rates;
•disruption of global supply chains;
•significant disruption and volatility in financial markets;
•closures, reduced activity and failures of many businesses, leading to loss of revenues and net losses; and
•the institution of social distancing and restrictions on movement in and among the United States and other countries.


The pandemic has had, and will likely continue to have, negative impacts on Citi’s businesses, revenues, expenses, credit costs and overall results of operations and financial condition, which could be material. The extent of the impact on Citi’s financial performance and operations, including its ability to execute its business initiatives and strategies, will continue to depend on future developments in the U.S. and globally, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration and further spread of the disease, as well as the severity of the economic downturn or any delay or weakness in the economic recovery. The impact will in part be dependent on government and other actions taken to lessen the health and economic repercussions, such as additional fiscal stimulus and/or monetary policy actions, medical investments and advances, restrictions on movement of people, transportation and businesses, and the effectiveness of past and any future fiscal, monetary and other governmental actions.
Ongoing legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. and globally to address the economic impact from the pandemic, such as consumer and corporate relief measures and continued lower interest rates, could further affect Citi’s businesses, credit costs and results. Citi could also face challenges, including legal and reputational, and scrutiny in its implementation of and ongoing efforts to provide these relief measures. Such implementations and efforts have resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions, and regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties and fines adverse to Citi. In addition, the
different types of government actions could vary in scale and duration across jurisdictions and regions with varying degrees of effectiveness.
The impact of the pandemic on Citi’s consumer and corporate borrowers will also vary by region, sector or industry, with some borrowers experiencing greater stress levels, which could lead to increased pressure on their results of operations and financial condition, increased borrowings or credit ratings downgrades, thus likely leading to higher credit costs for Citi. In addition, stress levels ultimately experienced by Citi’s borrowers may be different from and more intense than assumptions made in earlier estimates or models used by Citi, resulting in a further increase in Citi’s allowance for credit losses or net credit losses.
The pandemic may not be contained for an extended period of time, due to a further emergence or reemergence of widespread infections. A prolonged health crisis could continue to reduce economic activity in the U.S. and other countries, resulting in additional declines in employment and business and consumer confidence and a prolonged period of lower interest rates. These factors could further negatively impact global economic activity and markets and Citi’s consumer customers and corporate clients; cause a continued decline in Citi’s revenues and the demand for its products and services; and further increase Citi’s credit and other costs. These factors could also cause a continued increase in Citi’s balance sheet, risk-weighted assets and allowance for credit loss reserves, resulting in a decline in regulatory capital ratios or liquidity measures, as well as regulatory demands for higher capital levels and/or limitations or reductions in capital distributions (such as common share repurchases and dividends). Moreover, any disruption or failure of Citi’s performance of, or its ability to perform, key business functions, as a result of the continued spread of COVID-19 or otherwise, could adversely affect Citi’s operations.
Any disruption to, breaches of or attacks on Citi’s information technology systems, including from cyber incidents, could have adverse effects on Citi’s businesses. These systems are supporting a substantial portion of Citi’s employees who have been affected by local pandemic restrictions and have been forced to work remotely. In addition, these systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, and Citi could experience service denials or disruptions if demand for such systems were to exceed capacity or if a third-party system fails or experiences any interruptions. Citi has also taken measures to maintain the health and safety of its employees; however, these measures could result in increased expenses, and widespread illness could negatively affect staffing within certain functions, businesses or geographies. In addition, Citi’s ability to recruit, hire and onboard employees in key areas could be negatively impacted by global pandemic restrictions.
Further, it is unclear how the macroeconomic business environment or societal norms may be impacted after the pandemic. The post-pandemic environment may undergo unexpected developments or changes in financial markets, the fiscal, monetary, tax and regulatory environments and consumer customer and corporate client behavior. These developments and changes could have an adverse impact on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing
11
________________




business and regulatory uncertainties and changes may make Citi’s longer term business, balance sheet and budget planning more difficult or costly. Citi, its management and its businesses may also experience increased or different competitive and other challenges in this environment. To the extent that it is not able to adapt or compete effectively, Citi could experience loss of business and its results of operations and financial condition could suffer.
For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, as well as Citi’s management of pandemic-related risks, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above.
For information about the other most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, which could be exacerbated or realized by the pandemic-related risks discussed above, see “Risk Factors” in Citi’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


3Q20 vs. 3Q19
Net income decreased 22%, as lower cost of credit and lower expenses were more than offset by lower revenues.
Revenues decreased 13%, reflecting lower revenues in Citi retail services, Citi-branded cards and retail banking, primarily reflecting the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Retail banking revenues decreased 2%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes and an improvement in mortgage revenues were more than offset by lower deposit spreads, reflecting lower interest rates. Average deposits increased 19%, driven by a combination of factors, including government stimulus payments and a reduction in overall consumer spending related to the pandemic, as well as continued strategic efforts to drive organic growth.
Cards revenues decreased 16%. Citi-branded cards revenues decreased 12%, reflecting lower purchase sales and higher payment rates driving lower average loans. Average loans decreased 10% and purchase sales decreased 9%, reflecting the continued impact of the pandemic on customer activity.
Citi retail services revenues decreased 21%, primarily reflecting lower average loans and higher contractual partner payments. (For additional information on partner payments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Average loans were down 10% and purchase sales declined 8%, reflecting the continued impact of the pandemic on customer activity.
Expenses decreased 3%, as lower volume-related expenses, reductions in marketing and other discretionary expenses, as well as efficiency savings, more than offset higher pandemic-related expenses.
Provisions of $1.2 billion decreased 23% from the prior-year period, driven by lower net credit losses, as well as a modest reserve release. Net credit losses decreased 12%, primarily driven by lower net credit losses in Citi retail services (down 16% to $504 million) and Citi-branded cards (down 9% to $647 million), primarily reflecting lower loan volumes as well as higher payment rates given high levels of liquidity, lower spending and the benefits of relief programs. The ACL net release in the third quarter was $8 million, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes (compared to a build of $163 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards).
For additional information on North America GCB’s retail banking, and its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.
For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” and “Risk Factors” above.




2020 YTD vs. 2019 YTD
Year-to-date, North America GCB experienced similar trends to those described above. Net loss was $676 million, compared to net income of $2.3 billion in the prior-year period, as significantly higher cost of credit and lower revenues were partially offset by lower expenses.
Revenues decreased 4%, reflecting lower revenues in Citi retail services, Citi-branded cards and retail banking. Retail banking revenues decreased 2%, driven by the same factors described above. Cards revenues decreased 5%. In Citi-branded cards, revenues decreased 1%, driven by the same factors described above. Citi retail services revenues decreased 10%, driven by the same factors described above.
Expenses decreased 5%, driven by the same factors described above.
Provisions of $8.1 billion increased 77% from the prior-year period, driven by a higher ACL build. Net credit losses were largely unchanged. The ACL build was $3.9 billion, primarily reflecting the impact of deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook in each of the first and second quarters of 2020, primarily driven by the pandemic, on estimated lifetime credit losses under CECL (compared to a build of $359 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards), partially offset by the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs (see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below).


3Q20 vs. 3Q19
Net income decreased 23%, reflecting lower revenues, partially offset by lower cost of credit, while expenses were largely unchanged.
Revenues decreased 10%, reflecting lower retail banking and cards revenues, largely reflecting the continued impact of the pandemic and the ongoing slowdown in overall economic growth and industry volumes in Mexico.
Retail banking revenues decreased 4%, driven by a decline in loan volumes and lower deposit spreads, partially offset by deposit growth. Average deposits were up 13%, while average loans decreased 7%, reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity, as well as the ongoing economic slowdown.
Cards revenues decreased 23%, primarily driven by lower purchase sales (down 21%) and lower average loans (down 12%), reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity and the ongoing economic slowdown.
Expenses were largely unchanged, as efficiency savings were offset by ongoing investment spending and episodic items.
Provisions of $159 million decreased 29%, reflecting a higher allowance for credit loss (ACL) release and lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 7%, primarily driven by lower average loans. The ACL release in the third quarter was $116 million, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes, as well as the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs (compared to a release of $30 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards). See “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below.
For additional information on Latin America GCB’s retail banking and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.
For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” and “Risk Factors” above.














2020 YTD vs. 2019 YTD
Net income decreased 78%, reflecting significantly higher cost of credit, lower revenues and higher expenses.
Revenues decreased 6%. Excluding the impact of a residual gain (approximately $30 million) in the prior-year period on the sale of an asset management business, revenues decreased 5%, reflecting lower revenues in both retail banking and cards. Retail banking revenues decreased 5% (excluding the gain on sale in the prior-year period), driven by the same factors described above. Cards revenues decreased 3%, driven by the same factors described above.
Expenses increased 3%, as ongoing investment spending and episodic items were partially offset by efficiency savings.
Provisions of $1.1 billion increased 52%, driven by a higher ACL build, partially offset by lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 6%, primarily driven by the same factors described above. The ACL build was $351 million, primarily reflecting the impact of deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook in each of the first and second quarters of 2020, primarily driven by the pandemic, on estimated lifetime credit losses under CECL (compared to a release of $31 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards). The increase was partially offset by the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs.


3Q20 vs. 3Q19
Net income decreased 47%, reflecting lower revenues and higher cost of credit, partially offset by lower expenses.
Revenues decreased 13%, reflecting lower cards and retail banking revenues, largely due to the continued impact of the pandemic.
Retail banking revenues decreased 7%, primarily driven by lower deposit spreads due to lower interest rates and lower insurance revenues, partially offset by stronger deposit volumes and higher investment revenues. Average deposits increased 13% and average loans increased 4%. Assets under management increased 1% and investment sales increased 43%. Retail lending revenues increased 3%, reflecting growth in mortgages.
Cards revenues decreased 23%, primarily driven by lower purchase sales (down 17%) and lower average loans (down 11%), reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity, including from lower travel spend in the region, given Citi’s skew to an affluent client base and a greater proportion of fee revenues coming from travel-related interchange and foreign transaction fees.
Expenses decreased 2%, as lower marketing and other discretionary expenses, lower volume-related costs, as well as efficiency savings, were partially offset by ongoing investment spending.
Provisions of $233 million increased 29%, driven by a higher allowance for credit losses (ACL) build as well as higher net credit losses. Net credit losses increased 6%, as pandemic lockdowns and the deterioration in the macro-environment impacted credit performance. The ACL build in the third quarter was $41 million, reflecting an increase in the qualitative management adjustment component of the reserve to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and/or somewhat slower economic recovery (compared to a build of $2 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards). The increase was partially offset by the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs, as well as lower card loan volumes (see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below).
For additional information on Asia GCB’s retail banking portfolios and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.
For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” and “Risk Factors” above.








2020 YTD vs. 2019 YTD
Year-to-date, Asia GCB experienced similar trends to those described above. Net income decreased 63%, driven by lower revenues and higher cost of credit, partially offset by lower expenses.
Revenues decreased 10%, driven by a decline in both retail banking and cards revenues. Retail banking revenues decreased 3%, as growth in deposits and higher fees on investments and foreign currency transactions due to higher volumes and volatility were more than offset by lower deposit spreads, insurance revenues and the one-time gain in the prior-year period. Retail lending revenues increased 5%, reflecting growth in mortgages. Cards revenues decreased 20%, driven by the same factors described above, as well as a small one-time gain in the prior-year period.
Expenses decreased 3%, driven by the same factors described above.
Provisions of $1.1 billion increased $576 million from the prior-year period, driven by a higher ACL build and higher net credit losses. NCLs increased 11%, driven by the same factors described above. The ACL build was $502 million, primarily reflecting the impact of deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook in each of the first and second quarters of 2020, primarily driven by the pandemic, on estimated lifetime credit losses under CECL (compared to a release of $10 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards). The increase was partially offset by the impact of a change in estimate effected by a change in accounting principle for third-party collection costs.
3Q20 vs. 3Q19
Net income decreased 10%, as higher credit costs and higher expenses were partially offset by higher revenues.
Revenues were up 5%, reflecting higher Markets and securities services revenues (increase of 16%), partially offset by lower Banking revenues (decline of 4% including the impact of losses on loan hedges). Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, Banking revenues were down 2%, driven by lower revenues in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending, partially offset by higher revenues in investment banking and the private bank. Markets and securities services revenues were up 16%, reflecting higher revenues in both fixed income and equity markets, driven by increased client activity, partially offset by lower revenues in securities services.


Within Banking:


•Investment banking revenues were up 13%, reflecting growth in overall market wallet as well as gains in wallet share. Advisory revenues decreased 41%, largely reflecting a decline in the market wallet. Equity underwriting revenues increased 96%, reflecting growth in North America, EMEA and Asia, driven by continued strength in the market wallet as well as wallet share gains. Debt underwriting revenues increased 5%, reflecting particular strength in North America and Asia, partially offset by EMEA. The increase in revenues was largely driven by a higher market wallet in investment grade debt underwriting.
•Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 6%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 4%, driven by declines in EMEA and Asia, partially offset by growth in North America. The decline in revenues was driven by both the cash and trade businesses. The decline in revenues in the cash business reflected the continued impact of lower interest rates and a slowdown in commercial cards spend driven by the impact of the pandemic, partially offset by strong deposit volumes. Average deposit balances increased 25% (26% excluding the impact of FX translation), reflecting strong client engagement and solid growth across all regions. In trade, revenues were impacted by a decline in trade fees and trade loans, reflecting a slowdown in underlying trade related to the pandemic, partially offset by improved trade spreads.
•Corporate lending revenues decreased 38%, including higher losses on loan hedges, as credit spreads tightened during the quarter. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, revenues decreased 25%, as higher volumes were more than offset by lower spreads. Average loans were up 3% from the prior-year period, reflecting elevated volumes as the business continued to assist clients with sourcing liquidity in the evolving environment. Average loans declined 13% from the prior quarter, largely reflecting repayments.
•Private bank revenues increased 7%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, revenues increased 8%, reflecting particular strength in Asia and EMEA. The increase was driven by continued strong client activity, particularly in capital markets as well as higher managed investments revenues and higher loan and deposit volumes, partially offset by lower deposit spreads due to the low interest rate environment.


Within Markets and securities services:


•Fixed income markets revenues increased 18%, reflecting strength in North America and EMEA, largely driven by strong client activity in spread products and commodities. Non-interest revenues increased, reflecting higher corporate and investor activity, as volumes remained elevated particularly in spreads products and commodities. Net interest revenues also increased, largely reflecting a change in the mix of trading positions.
Rates and currencies revenues were largely unchanged. Spread products and other fixed income revenues increased 76%, reflecting strong client activity following robust primary issuance, particularly in flow trading and financing products, as well as a more favorable market making environment, as evidenced by spread tightening. Commodities revenues increased, reflecting a more favorable market making environment, as volatility remained elevated, particularly in gold and oil.
•Equity markets revenues increased 15%, driven by higher revenues in cash equities and derivatives, partially offset by lower revenues in prime finance. Equity derivatives revenues increased, reflecting strong client activity and continued market volatility, particularly in North America. Cash equities revenues increased driven by elevated levels of client activity. The decline in prime
28
________________




finance revenues was largely due to lower financing spreads.
•Securities services revenues decreased 5%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 4%, driven by EMEA and Latin America, as higher deposit volumes were more than offset by lower deposit spreads due to the low interest rate environment.


For additional information on trends in ICG’s deposit and trade loans, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk—Loans” and “—Deposits” below.


Expenses were up 3%, reflecting continued investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, higher compensations costs and volume-driven growth, partially offset by efficiency savings.
Provisions increased to $838 million, primarily reflecting a higher ACL build as well as higher net credit losses. Net credit losses were $326 million, compared to $110 million in the prior-year period, largely driven by write-offs across various sectors in both North America and EMEA, primarily reflecting smaller-sized energy and energy-related exposures. The net credit losses were largely offset by the release of previously established ACL reserves.
The ACL build was $529 million, compared to $43 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards. The higher build was primarily driven by an increase in the qualitative management adjustment component of the reserve to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and/or somewhat slower economic recovery.
The ACL build consisted of a $106 million build for funded loans and a $423 million provision on unfunded lending commitments. This relative difference in the builds in part reflected the release of certain reserves held against funded loans and builds against the unfunded lending commitments when the funded loans (particularly under revolving line of credit facilities) were repaid during the quarter. The provision for unfunded lending commitments also was driven by downgrades, and the increase in the qualitative management adjustment noted above.
As of September 30, 2020, reserves held on Citi’s balance sheet represented 1.8% of funded loans, compared to 1.7% as of June 30, 2020, including 5.7% of reserves held against the non-investment grade portion, compared to 4.9% as of June 30, 2020.
For additional information on ICG’s corporate credit portfolio, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Corporate Credit” below.
For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and Notes 1, 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” and “Risk Factors” above.




2020 YTD vs. 2019 YTD
Net income decreased 16%, as significantly higher cost of credit and higher expenses were partially offset by higher revenues.
Revenues were up 17%, driven by a 34% increase in Markets and securities services revenues as well as a 2% increase in Banking revenues (including the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges). Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, Banking revenues declined 2%, as growth in investment banking and the private bank was more than offset by a decrease in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Excluding the pretax gain of approximately $350 million on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb in the prior-year period, Markets and securities services revenues increased 37%, primarily driven by growth in both fixed income markets and equity markets, partially offset by a decline in securities services.


Within Banking:


•Investment banking revenues increased 16%. Advisory revenues decreased 12%, reflecting a decline in the overall market wallet, despite gains in share. Equity underwriting revenues increased 58%, primarily reflecting growth in the market wallet and gains in share. Debt underwriting revenues increased 14%, reflecting growth in the market wallet as well as gains in share.
•Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 7%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 5%, reflecting lower revenues in both cash and trade, driven by the same factors described above.
•Corporate lending revenues were largely unchanged, including gains on loan hedges in the current period compared to losses in the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, revenues decreased 25%, primarily driven by lower loan spreads and an adjustment to the residual value of a lease financing asset, partially offset by higher loan volumes.
•Private bank revenues increased 10%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges in the current period, revenues increased 9%, reflecting strength across all regions, driven by the same factors described above.


Within Markets and securities services:


•Fixed income markets revenues increased 42%. Excluding the Tradeweb gain in the prior-year period, revenues increased 47%, reflecting higher revenues across all regions, with strong performance across rates and currencies, spread products, and commodities due to the impact of market conditions, including elevated volatility, related to pandemic. Non-interest revenues increased, reflecting higher corporate and investor client activity, as volatility, volumes and spreads remained elevated. Net interest revenues also increased, reflecting lower funding costs as well as a change in the mix of trading positions in support of client activity.
•Equity markets revenues increased 18%, driven largely by higher revenues in both cash equities and equity derivatives, partially offset by lower revenues in prime finance.
29
________________




•Securities services revenues declined 4% (down 2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange) driven by the same factors described above.


Expenses were up 4%, driven by the same factors described above.
Provisions increased to $6.7 billion, driven by net credit losses of $777 million, compared to $279 million in the prior-year period, and an ACL build of $5.9 billion compared to a modest build in the prior-year period. The increase in net credit losses was driven by the same factors described above.
The increase in the ACL build primarily reflected the impact of a deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, driven by the impact of the pandemic across multiple sectors, as well as downgrades in the portfolio over the course of the year. Sectors significantly impacted by the pandemic (including energy and energy-related, aviation, consumer retail, commercial real estate and autos) drove approximately half of the ACL reserve build year-to-date. The ACL build also included an increase in the qualitative management adjustment component of the reserve to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and/or somewhat slower economic recovery.






30
________________




CORPORATE/OTHER
Corporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses and income taxes, as well as Corporate Treasury, certain North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, other legacy assets and discontinued operations (for additional information on Corporate/Other, see “Citigroup Segments” above). At September 30, 2020, Corporate/Other had $96 billion in assets.
3Q20 vs. 3Q19
Net loss was $723 million, compared to net income of $191 million in the prior-year period, largely driven by lower revenues and higher expenses, partially offset by lower cost of credit.
Revenues of $(224) million, decreased $658 million, reflecting the wind-down of legacy assets, the impact of lower rates and marks on securities.
Expenses of $969 million, increased significantly, as the wind-down of legacy assets was more than offset by the $400 million civil money penalty (for additional information, see “Executive Summary” above), investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, and incremental costs associated with the pandemic.
Provisions decreased $121 million to a net benefit of $136 million, primarily driven by an ACL release of $132 million on legacy assets (versus a $16 million release in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards).
For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below, and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.






2020 YTD vs. 2019 YTD
Net loss was $1.2 billion, compared to net income of $264 million in the prior-year period, largely reflecting lower revenues, higher expenses and significantly higher cost of credit.
Revenues decreased 91%, reflecting the same factors described above, partially offset by gains on securities.
Expenses of $1.9 billion increased 22%, driven by the same factors described above.
Provisions of $220 million increased $282 million (versus a release in the prior-year period), primarily driven by an ACL build on legacy assets (versus a release in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards). The ACL build of $223 million primarily reflected the impact of deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook in each of the first and second quarters of 2020, mainly driven by the pandemic, on estimated lifetime credit losses under CECL (compared to a release of $67 million in the prior-year period under prior accounting standards).