 Item 1. Business 

Regions Financial Corporation is a FHC headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama operating in the South, Midwest and Texas. In addition, Regions operates several offices delivering specialty capabilities in New York, Washington D.C., Chicago and other locations nationwide. Regions provides financial solutions for a wide range of clients including retail and mortgage banking services, commercial banking services and wealth and investment services. Further, Regions and its subsidiaries deliver specialty capabilities including merger and acquisition advisory services, capital market solutions, home improvement lending and others. At December 31, 2021, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $162.9 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately $139.1 billion and total consolidated shareholders&#8217; equity of approximately $18.3 billion. 

The terms &#8220;Regions,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; as used herein mean collectively Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries when or where appropriate. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667. 

Banking Operations 

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2021, Regions operated 2,068 ATMs and 1,302 total branch outlets primarily across the South, Midwest and Texas. 

The following table reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations. 

##TABLE_START &#160; Branches Florida 280 Tennessee 200 Alabama 190 Georgia 114 Mississippi 101 Texas 93 Louisiana 84 Arkansas 60 Missouri 51 Indiana 44 Illinois 41 South Carolina 20 Kentucky 11 North Carolina 7 Iowa 5 Utah 1 Total 1,302 ##TABLE_END

Other Financial Services Operations 

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries: 

Regions Equipment Finance Corporation and Regions Commercial Equipment Finance, LLC, each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, provide equipment financing products focusing on commercial clients. Ascentium Capital, also a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, provides financing of essential-use equipment for small business customers through a technology-enabled model that delivers same-day credit decisions and funding. 

Regions Investment Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, offers investments and insurance products to Regions Bank customers, provided by licensed insurance agents. In addition, Regions Bank and Regions Investment Services, Inc. also maintain an agreement with Cetera Investment Services, LLC to offer securities, insurance and advisory services to Regions Bank customers through dually-employed financial advisors. 

Regions Securities LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, serves as a broker-dealer to commercial clients and acts in an advisory capacity to merger and acquisition transactions. 

BlackArch Partners LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions and is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. BlackArch Partners LLC and its broker-dealer subsidiary offer merger and acquisition services to its institutional clients and commercial entities, as well as serving as a broker-dealer to commercial clients. 

Clearsight Advisors, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions headquartered in McLean, Virginia, and acts in an advisory capacity to merger and acquisition transactions. 

Sabal Capital Partners, LLC, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank headquartered in Irvine, California, and is a national commercial real estate lender. 

Regions Investment Management, Inc. serves as the investment adviser to Regions Wealth Management division and trades in stocks and bonds for trust clients. Highland Associates, Inc. is an institutional investment firm providing investment counsel and consulting services to not-for-profit healthcare entities and mission-based organizations. Regions Bank has also retained Highland Associates, Inc. to provide investment advisory services with respect to assets held in accounts in Regions Bank&#8217;s trust department. Both Regions Investment Management, Inc. and Highland Associates, Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Regions Bank. 

Regions Affordable Housing LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank headquartered in Great Neck, New York, and engages in low income housing tax credit corporate fund syndication and asset management. 

Supervision and Regulation 

We are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC&#8217;s DIF and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. These descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Overview 

We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a BHC and have elected to be treated as an FHC under the BHC Act. As such, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. Generally, the BHC Act provides for &#8220;umbrella&#8221; regulation of FHCs by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act also requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a BHC, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary. 

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Its operations are generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department and the bank regulators are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. State and federal laws and regulations govern the activities in which Regions Bank engages, including the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Regions Bank is also affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it implements monetary policy. As a Federal Reserve System member bank, Regions Bank is required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in an amount equal to 6 percent of its capital stock and surplus. Member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Regions Bank, receive a floating rate dividend tied to 10-year U.S. Treasuries, with the maximum dividend rate capped at 6 percent. 

Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Some of Regions&#8217; non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, such as the SEC and FINRA in the case of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Regions Securities LLC and BlackArch Securities LLC. 

We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Our common stock and certain of our depositary shares representing our outstanding preferred stock are listed on the NYSE. Consequently, we are also subject to the NYSE&#8217;s rules for listed companies. 

As a BHC with over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, we are subject to enhanced prudential standards and capital and as modified by the federal banking regulators' 2019 rules (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). The Tailoring Rules assign each U.S. BHC with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as well as its bank subsidiaries, to one of four categories based on its size and five other risk-based indicators: (1) cross-jurisdictional activity, (2) wSTWF, (3) non-bank assets, (4) off-balance sheet exposure, and (5) status as a U.S. G-SIB. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to Category IV standards, which apply to banking organizations with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets that do not meet any of the thresholds specified for Categories I through III. Firms subject to Category IV standards are generally subject to the same capital and liquidity requirements as firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, but are, among other things, subject to certain enhanced prudential standards and also required to monitor and report certain risk-based indicators. Accordingly, under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms are, among other things, (1) not subject to LCR or NSFR requirements (or, in certain cases, subject to reduced requirements), (2) remain eligible to opt-out of the requirement to recognize most elements of AOCI in regulatory capital (3) no longer subject to company-run capital stress testing requirements, (4) subject to supervisory capital stress testing on a biennial instead of annual basis, (5) subject to requirements to develop and maintain a capital plan on an annual basis and (6) subject to certain liquidity risk management and risk committee requirements. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the United States Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. Regions cannot predict future changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, including any changes resulting from the recent change in U.S. presidential administration, yet such changes may have a material impact on Regions&#8217; business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act 

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for BHCs to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incidental thereto. A BHC electing to be treated as a FHC, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments. 

For a BHC to be eligible to elect and maintain FHC status, all of its subsidiary insured depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed as described below under &#8220;Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA&#8221; and must have received at least a satisfactory rating on such institution&#8217;s most recent examination under the CRA. The BHC itself must also be well-capitalized and well-managed in order to be eligible to elect FHC status. If an FHC fails to continue to be well-capitalized or well-managed after engaging in activities not permissible for BHCs that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may be required to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a BHC electing to be treated as an FHC. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that an FHC has not maintained a CRA rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on permissible non-banking activities of BHCs. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any BHC or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the BHC. 

Capital Requirements 

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, which are based on the Basel III framework. 

The Basel III-based U.S. capital rules, among other things, include both risk-based requirements, which compare three measures of capital to RWAs, as well as leverage requirements, which in the case of Category IV BHCs such as Regions, consist of the Tier 1 leverage ratio described below. 

Under the U.S. Basel III-based capital rules, the minimum capital ratios are: 

&#8226; 4.5% CET1 capital to RWAs; 

&#8226; 6.0% tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital) to RWAs; 

&#8226; 8.0% total capital (that is, tier 1 capital plus tier 2 capital) to RWAs; and 

&#8226; 4.0% tier 1 capital to total average consolidated assets (the &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221;). 

The capital rules also require firms to maintain a &#8220;buffer,&#8221; consisting of solely CET1 capital, in addition to the minimum risk-based requirements. Failure to satisfy the buffer requirement in full results in graduated constraints on capital distributions and discretionary executive compensation. The extent to which capital distributions will be constrained depends on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income,&#8221; which is defined as the greater of (1) a banking institution&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions to shareholders and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (2) the average of a banking institution&#8217;s net income over the preceding four quarters. As a Category IV BHC, Regions' SCB is determined through the FRB&#8217;s CCAR supervisory stress tests. The SCB reflects stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the CCAR stress tests and includes four quarters of planned common stock dividends. The SCB is subject to a 2.5 percent floor. Regions voluntarily participated in the 2021 CCAR process, and on August 5, 2021 the FRB announced that Regions' SCB for the fourth quarter of 2021 through the third quarter of 2022 is floored at 2.5 percent, the regulatory minimum. For Regions Bank, the buffer requirement consists of the static 2.5 percent CCB. For further information, see &#8220;Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing&#8221; below and the &#8220;Regulatory Requirements&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Regions is also subject to rules that provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms . Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee&#8217;s standardized approach for credit risk (including recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain &#8220;unconditionally cancellable commitments,&#8221; such as unused credit card and home equity lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2023, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2028. Under the current U.S. Basel III rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to Regions or Regions Bank. The impact of these standards will depend on the manner in which they are implemented in the U.S. with respect to firms such as Regions and Regions Bank. 

For more information, see the &#8220;Regulatory Requirements&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Leverage Requirements 

BHCs and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage capital requirements. These requirements provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total consolidated average tangible assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), called the &#8220;leverage ratio,&#8221; of 4.0% for all BHCs. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms with less than $50 billion in wSTWF, including Regions and Regions Bank, are not subject to an LCR requirement or the recently finalized NSFR requirement. However, BHCs that are Category IV firms are subject to minimum monthly liquidity buffers and liquidity stress testing requirements under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards. Furthermore, as a Category IV firm, Regions is obligated, at a minimum, to: (i) calculate collateral positions monthly; (ii) establish a more limited set of liquidity risk limits than was previously required; (iii) monitor elements of intraday liquidity risk exposures; and (iv) report liquidity data on the FR 2052a on a monthly basis. 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing 

The Federal Reserve currently conducts analyses of BHCs with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets using baseline and severely adverse economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve. Under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms, including Regions, are now subject to supervisory stress testing every other year, in even-numbered years, rather than annually, and are no longer subject to company-run stress testing requirements. The final rule implementing the SCB also eliminated the quantitative objection provisions of CCAR but the Federal Reserve continues to require that a BHC reduce its planned capital distributions if those distributions would not be consistent with the applicable capital buffer constraints based on the BHC&#8217;s own baseline scenario projections. Although the final rule replaced the static CCB requirement with one based on the results of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress tests, firms continue to be subject to progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions as they approach the minimum ratios. As noted above, banking institutions that fail to meet the effective minimum ratios once the SCB is taken into account will be subject to constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, and certain discretionary executive compensation. 

U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, including Category IV BHCs such as Regions, must develop and maintain a capital plan, and must submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company&#8217;s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and 

financial stress. In January 2021, the Federal Reserve finalized a rule that further tailors the capital planning requirements applicable to Category IV firms to align with the two-year supervisory stress testing cycle for Category IV BHCs. Under the final rule, for Category IV BHCs, the portion of the SCB requirement that reflects stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress tests is calculated every other year. During a year in which a Category IV BHC does not undergo a supervisory stress test, the BHC will receive an updated SCB requirement that reflects the BHC&#8217;s updated planned common stock dividends. A Category IV BHC is also able to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test in a year in which the BHC would not normally be subject to the supervisory stress test and consequently receive an updated SCB requirement. In addition, the Federal Reserve's capital plan rule relating to the CCAR process provides that a BHC must receive prior approval for any dividend, stock repurchase or other capital distribution if the BHC is required to resubmit its capital plan, subject to an exception for distributions on newly issued capital instruments. Among other circumstances, a BHC may be required to resubmit its capital plan in connection with certain acquisitions or dispositions. 

Resolution Planning 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by EGRRCPA, Category I, II and III BHCs are required to submit resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and FDIC providing for the company&#8217;s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. Category IV firms such as Regions are not required to submit resolution plans. The FDIC separately requires insured depositary institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as Regions Bank, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution&#8217;s failure. In June 2021, the FDIC issued a &#8220;Statement on Resolution Plans for Insured Depositary Institutions,&#8221; which, among other things, establishes a three-year filing cycle for banks with $100 billion or more in total assets, such as Regions Bank, and provides details regarding the content that filers will be expected to prepare. Prior to each plan submission cycle, the FDIC will notify each bank of the timing of its next submission, which will be at least 12 months after the date of that communication. Regions Bank was notified in August 2021 that it will be required to submit the next resolution plan on or before December 1, 2022. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (&#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2021, both Regions and Regions Bank were well-capitalized. 

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be treated as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. 

The FDIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality, and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. Regulators also must take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution&#8217;s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance sheet position); and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital. Regulators make this evaluation as a part of their regular examination of the institution&#8217;s safety and soundness. Additionally, regulators may choose to examine other factors in order to evaluate the safety and soundness of financial institutions. 

Payment of Dividends 

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to us, including cash flow to pay dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest on any of our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our shareholders. 

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and 

desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See &#8220;-Safety and Soundness Standards&#8221; above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that BHCs and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank . Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. 

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings unless its surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions . Our payment of dividends to our shareholders is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large BHC, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the BHC. See &#8220;-Capital Requirements&#8221; and &#8220;-Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing&#8221; above. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy, which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a BHC&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including a parent BHC. Regions Bank is subject to these restrictions, which include quantitative and qualitative limits on the amounts and types of transactions that may take place, including extensions of credit to affiliates, investments in the stock or securities of affiliates, purchases of assets from affiliates and certain other transactions with affiliates. These restrictions also require that credit transactions with affiliates be collateralized and that transactions with affiliates be on market terms or better for the bank. Generally, a bank&#8217;s covered transactions with any affiliate are limited to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus and covered transactions with all affiliates are limited to 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus. 

Deposit Insurance 

Regions Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank&#8217;s federal regulatory agency. 

Regions Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, are calculated based on a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large institution will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the deposit insurance fund if such a failure occurs. The calculation is based primarily on the institution's assessment base, which is primarily the difference between average total assets and average tangible equity, multiplied by the institution's assessment rate, which is derived from various risk-based scorecard measures. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that may not be adequately captured in the scorecard. For large institutions, including Regions Bank, after accounting for potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate that is applied to an institution's calculated assessment base could range from 1.5 to 40 basis points on an annualized basis. 

For more information, see the &#8220;FDIC Insurance Assessments&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Acquisitions 

The BHC Act requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (i) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (ii) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (iii) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. FHCs must obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion. FHCs seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed. 

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the U.S., or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the BHCs and banks impacted and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and the consideration of convenience and needs of the community to be served includes the parties&#8217; performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions&#8217; effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system. 

In July 2021, the Biden Administration issued an executive order on competition, which included provisions relating to bank mergers. These provisions &#8220;encourage&#8221; the Department of Justice and the federal banking regulators to update guidelines on banking mergers and to provide more scrutiny of bank mergers. A number of large bank mergers that were pending at the time of the executive order have not yet obtained approval, despite them being filed earlier in 2021 or only obtained approval after extended periods of time. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, claims of depositors and certain claims for both administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of such an institution by any receiver. 

Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be considered an investment company for purposes of the Volcker Rule. The compliance requirements under regulations implementing the Volcker Rule are tailored based on the size and scope of trading activities. The final rules implementing the Volcker Rule also require that large BHCs, such as Regions, design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s prohibitions. 

Consumer Protection Laws 

We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, other fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to consumer financial laws for depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. 

Financial Privacy and Cybersecurity 

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to non-affiliated third parties. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and application information. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. 

Federal law requires financial institutions to implement a written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The program should be designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against unanticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information, and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Financial institutions must also conduct ongoing oversight of third party service providers to ensure they are maintaining appropriate security controls. Financial institutions must report on the institution&#8217;s cybersecurity program annually to the board of directors or a committee of the board of directors. The federal banking regulators regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management standards among financial institutions. A financial institution is expected to establish multiple lines of defense against security threats and to ensure their risk management processes appropriately address the risk posed by potential threats to the institution. A financial institution&#8217;s management is expected to maintain sufficient processes to effectively respond and recover the institution&#8217;s operations after a cyber-attack. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations if a critical service provider of the institution falls victim to this type of cyber-attack. The Regions Information Security Program reflects the requirements of these regulatory requirements and guidance. 

In addition, on November 18, 2021, the federal banking regulators imposed a new cybersecurity-related notification rule that would require banking organizations, including Regions and Regions Bank, to notify their primary federal regulator as soon as possible and within 36 hours of incidents that have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key operations of the banking organization, or impact the stability of the financial sector. The rule also imposes requirements on bank service providers to notify their affected banking organization customers of certain computer-security incidents. This rule will become effective on April 1, 2022,with compliance required by May 1, 2022. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective on January 1, 2020, and in November 2020, California voters approved the California Privacy Rights Act, which will take effect on January 1, 2023. Comprehensive state privacy laws, approved in 2021, will also take effect in Colorado and Virginia in 2023. We expect this trend of state-level activity in those areas to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which our customers are located. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution&#8217;s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency&#8217;s assessment is part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s consideration of applications by a bank or BHC to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a BHC applicant, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant BHC, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. In April 2018, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued a memorandum to the federal banking regulators with recommended changes to the CRA&#8217;s implementing regulations to reduce their complexity and associated burden on banks. Subsequently, in December 2019, the OCC and FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking intended to update and modernize the CRA's implementing regulations. On May 20, 2020, the OCC finalized its rule while the FDIC, which had joined the OCC&#8217;s proposed rulemaking, did not proceed with a final rule. The Federal Reserve, which did not join the OCC and FDIC&#8217;s proposal, in October 2020 put forth its own advance notice of proposed rulemaking focused on CRA modernization. On December 14, 2021, the OCC issued a final rule to rescind its May, 2020 rule and will join the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in a joint CRA proposal, which will provide more consistency across all insured depository institutions. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes to the regulations implementing the CRA. Regions Bank's most recent CRA rating from the Federal Reserve is "Satisfactory". 

Compensation Practices 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. The federal banking regulators have provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be 

supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

A continued focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act&#8217;s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions&#8217; banking subsidiary has augmented its systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. In January 2021, the AMLA, which amends the BSA, was enacted. Among other things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance for financial institutions; requires the development of standards by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for evaluating technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; and expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority, including a significant expansion in the available sanctions for certain BSA violations. Many of the statutory provisions in the AMLA will require additional rulemaking, reports and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend on, among other things, rulemaking and implementation guidance. 

In June 2021, FinCEN, which drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act legislation, issued the priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy required under AMLA. The priorities include: corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and proliferation financing. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and we continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance programs. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Regulation of Broker Dealers and Investment Advisers 

Our subsidiaries, Regions Securities LLC and BlackArch Securities LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and FINRA, and Regions Investment Management, Inc. and Highland Associates, Inc. are registered investment advisers with the SEC. These subsidiaries are, as a result, subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

Competition 

All aspects of our business are highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial 

intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. We expect competition to remain intense among financial services companies given the low interest rate and slower economic environment. Also, future changes in monetary policy, coupled with post-crisis regulatory requirements, may increase competition for certain deposit products. Our success will depend, in part, on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Further, we expect consolidation in the financial services industry to continue, which may produce larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer traditional bank or bank-like products and services and therefore compete with financial institutions like us in providing electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone-based financial solutions. In particular, the activity of fintechs has grown significantly over recent years and is expected to continue to grow. A number of fintechs have applied for, and in some cases been granted, bank or industrial loan charters, while other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. In addition to fintechs, traditional technology companies have begun to make efforts toward providing financial services directly to their customers. Although providing digital products and services has been important to serving customers and competing in the financial services industry for some time, the COVID-19 pandemic further accelerated the move towards digital banking and financial services, and we expect a bank&#8217;s digital offerings to be a key competitive differentiator. The continued move toward digital banking and financial services, combined with customer expectations regarding digital offerings, will require us to invest greater resources in technological improvements. Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by our subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, price of service, personal contacts, the quality of the technology that supports the customer experience, and availability of products. Although our position varies in different markets, we believe that our affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. 

Human Capital 

One pillar of our strategic priorities at Regions is the commitment to &#8220;Build the Best Team&#8221;. We believe one of the biggest differentiators of our performance is the people we employ. The need to attract, retain, and develop the right talent to accomplish our strategic plan is central to our success. As of December 31, 2021, Regions and its subsidiaries had 19,626 full-time equivalent employees supporting our consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, and mortgage product and services primarily across the Southeast and Midwest. Approximately 620 associates were added in the fourth quarter of 2021 from acquisitions closed during the quarter. 

Our associate team reflects the diversity of the communities we serve. As of December 2021, approximately 62 percent of our associates were women and approximately 35 percent self-identified as a part of a minority demographic. Because diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental to our human capital strategy, we believe it is important for our stakeholders to understand our progress, and therefore, we provided additional transparency into our workforce demographics by disclosing 2020 EEO-1 results on our 2020 Workforce Demographics Report available in our online ESG Resource Center. 

A strong and impactful human capital program begins at the top. Our Board oversees our corporate strategy and sets the tone for our culture, values and high ethical standards, and through its Committees, holds management accountable for results. Beginning in 2018, the Board expanded the scope of our CHR Committee beyond its traditional compensation-focused role to include oversight of all human capital management efforts within Regions. Since this expansion, the CHR Committee has strategically conducted reviews of talent management and acquisition, succession planning, associate conduct, associate learning and development, diversity, equity and inclusion, and associate retention. Notably, in 2019, the CHR Committee further strengthened its oversight of these areas through the implementation of a HCM Dashboard that it reviews periodically throughout the year. The HCM Dashboard includes a mixture of trending and point-in-time metrics designed to provide information and analysis of workforce demographics; talent acquisition; workforce stability (retention, turnover, etc.); associate engagement; learning and development; and total rewards and associate support program utilization and effectiveness. 

In order to build the best team, it is necessary for us to fill talent needs with qualified, diverse and engaged associates. Key to our success is our internal talent management program which strives to optimally deploy existing talent across Regions by focusing on where our associates excel and helping them find the best roles for them. For those roles which we fill externally, we continually build talent pipelines with an eye toward not only current needs, but also future demands of our business. Regions uses a number of innovative tools and structured processes to achieve our goals including applications and resources designed to reach larger and more diverse audiences. Our recruiting technology is agile, user friendly and allows us to offer to candidates a robust understanding of our needs, requirements and a view of our culture to support the building of a diverse, engaged workforce. 

Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental to our corporate strategy. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion as noted starts at the top of our organization, with oversight of our initiatives provided by the CHR Committee. Led by our executive level Chief DE&#38;I Officer, this commitment is implemented by a dedicated DE&#38;I team, reinforced by senior leaders, and supported by our outstanding management team and associates. We track our progress in this area and continually implement programs and practices to support managers in reaching our goals. 

We also consider it critical to our success to invest in the professional development of all of our associates. We emphasize our commitment to professional development through opportunities such as technical, skills-based, management, and leadership training programs; formal talent and performance management processes; and sustainable career paths. We also aim to prepare our workforce for a rapidly changing environment and understand that reskilling and upskilling are crucial to staying competitive, meeting the needs of the modern workforce, and retaining associates. We&#8217;ve established a customized learning experience platform that provides the tools to measure, build, and communicate skills inside the Company. This tool provides the ability to inventory the skills our associates have, allowing us to target our development efforts on specific areas where elevated skills are needed. Regions also offers a leader and manager development program created to help people managers understand how to evaluate performance by leveraging the power of a strengths-based and engagement-focused workforce and culture. 

Understanding that automation, cognitive technologies, and the open talent economy are reshaping the future of work, Regions makes available to technology associates courses on-demand that offer intensive learning in application development, information technology operations, security, and technology architecture. This solution also offers professional development for data and business professionals. In addition, almost all associates may access a full suite of courses regardless of whether the application is needed in their current role. 

We aim to offer competitive and fair compensation to our associates. Base salaries are established considering market competitive rates for specific roles; additionally, on an individual basis base salaries reflect the experience and performance levels of our associates. We assess the competitiveness of our ranges on an annual basis by benchmarking our rates against those paid by our peers. In 2018, we established a minimum starting rate for our entry level positions at $15 an hour and we continue to study and review that level to ensure appropriateness. In addition to base salaries, we promote a robust pay-for-performance philosophy and incentivize a large majority of our associate population with incentive compensation designed to drive strategies, behaviors and business goals within our unique lines of business. Long-term stock-based incentive compensation is also key to the attraction and retention of key talent and is offered thoughtfully to our executive and leadership ranks. We believe tying the interests of our leaders to those of our shareholders creates a strong link to company performance. 

As the success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our associates, we aim to offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits program to support associates throughout all life stages. Our benefits include comprehensive health, life, and disability coverage that are funded in whole or in part by the Company as well as a 401(k) plan with a dollar-for-dollar company match on employee contributions up to 5 percent of pay and a base contribution of 2 percent of pay for all associates who do not participate in our grandfathered pension program. We also offer our associates programs and tools to support their total well-being including a range of flexible work arrangements, generous time-off policies, physical, mental, and financial wellness benefits as well as other programs and practices that support associates and their families throughout the full spectrum of their careers and lives. 

Finally, in any review of human capital programs over the past year, it is imperative to note responsive changes we have made in reaction to the evolving COVID-19 pandemic. During 2021, we implemented changes and enhancements that we determined were in the best interests of our associates, our customers and the communities we serve. In 2021, Regions began the process of returning remote working associates to office locations, with some employees maintaining the ability to work remotely on a full-time or hybrid basis. In addition, we implemented many other measures to help ensure and support associate safety. These measures included continuing to provide COVID-19 testing and relevant treatment at no cost to associates, continuing to offer expanded access to and payment for telehealth benefits and offering enhanced leave of absence benefits for those dealing with the virus or quarantine requirements. In all of our locations, we have signage to promote social distancing, implemented enhanced sanitizing protocols, and have provided appropriate facemasks and other sanitizing supplies to protect associates, customers, and our communities. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.regions.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including Regions. Also available on our website are our (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Fair Disclosure Policy Summary, (v) the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Committee, and (vi) a number of ESG reports and documents. Information included on our website is not incorporated into, or otherwise made a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

