capital_one_financial_corporation_2024_Q1

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.) called for the Biden administration to block Capital One's acquisition of
Discover ("Block Capital One's Merger With Discover," op-ed, March 8) because she believes that two firms
are always better than one. But this is a misunderstanding of how competition works. One need only look at
the broader industry -- Visa, Mastercard and American Express control more than 95% of credit-clearing
transactions -- to realize the folly of the many-small-firms approach. If the deal is approved, there will be more
competition in the industry, not less.                                
Competition in the market over the past three decades has streamlined technology and reduced costs to the
point where credit-card acceptance is nearly universal. Providing a smaller network like Discover with the
financial power of Capital One creates an environment where fees can fall and security can improve.
It's time to put the Econ 101 definition of competition back on college blackboards and bring real competition
to the financial-services industry.                                   
Prof. Michael C. Munger                                               
Duke University                                                     
Durham, N.C.                                                        
                                                                    
---                                                                 
Mastercard and Visa have a combined $1 trillion market capitalization, reflecting the persistent profits
resulting from their control of card payments.                       
                                                                    
The pricing power they enjoy has repeatedly been shown by academics and others to be to the detriment of
consumers and merchants alike. Discover is a potentially potent tool to breach the moat protecting this
payments oligopoly, yet the deal announced by Capital One has provoked a rather tepid market response.
The deal value of $35 billion and potential incremental profits of $1.2 billion referenced by Sen. Warren and
additional benefits not referenced by her are rounding errors compared with the magnitude of the issue at
hand. She should be asking why the deal seems to have generated such a muted response.
It isn't the merger introducing more concentration and risk that makes the deal of questionable social value, it
is that the deal grossly fails to realize the potential to enhance market competition.
Adam Hurwich                                                        
                                                                    
New York                                                           
                                                                    
---                                                                 
Sen. Warren presents many reasons for blocking the merger, including its potential to "increase risks in our
economy." Would the merger be more harmful to our economy than the country's $34 trillion national debt? I
think not.                                                          
Perhaps she and her congressional colleagues should worry about the financial problems they have created
and the resultant risks to our economy.                             
                                                                    
Paul Stewart                                                       
Quincy, Mass.                                                      
                                                                    
Capital One said it will buy Discover Financial Services for more than $35 billion, in a deal that will marry two
of the largest credit-card companies in the U.S.                    
Under the terms of the all-stock deal, Discover shareholders are set to receive 1.0192 Capital One shares for
each Discover share, representing a premium of about 27% based on Discover's closing price Friday. After
the deal closes, Capital One shareholders will hold roughly 60% of the combined company, with Discover
shareholders owning the rest.                                       
Capital One is making a big bet at a booming time in the credit-card sector. More consumers are moving from
paying with cash to cards as a result of generous rewards programs and the digitization of commerce -- a
transition that accelerated with the pandemic. A recent increase in credit-card-debt has provided a further
boost to issuers.                                                   
Buying Discover would give Capital One, a credit-card lender with a market value of a little over $52 billion, a
network that would vastly increase its power in the payments ecosystem. 
Card networks are critical to enabling transactions and setting fees that merchants pay when consumers
shop with credit cards. Though much smaller than Visa and Mastercard, Discover is one of the few
competitors to those companies in the U.S., and it is one of a small number of card issuers that also has a
payments network.                                                   
Capital One, the ninth-largest bank in the country and a major credit-card issuer, uses Visa and Mastercard
for most of its cards. The bank plans to switch at least some of its cards to the Discover network, while
continuing to use Visa and Mastercard on others. Those larger networks have more merchant acceptance
abroad than Discover does.                                          
Capital One also plans to maintain the Discover brand on the cards and network -- assuming regulators sign
off and the deal is consummated.                                    
Discover, based in Riverwoods, Ill., is an online institution so the takeover wouldn't come with physical bank
branches, except for one location in Delaware.                      
The deal follows a tumultuous period for Discover that has included increased regulatory scrutiny and a
change in leadership.                                               
                                                                    
The company disclosed last year that an internal review found it had misclassified certain credit-card
accounts beginning in 2007, incorrectly placing them in the highest merchant-and-acquirer pricing tier. The
company established a liability of $365 million to account for estimated compensation owed to merchants and
acquirers.                                                          
Separately, Discover received a consent order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In October,
Discover said it would address the FDIC order to improve its consumer-compliance operations.
In December, Discover said financial-industry executive Michael Rhodes would become its chief executive
officer and president. He took over from John Owen, who had been serving in the interim after Roger
Hochschild stepped down in August.                                  
Discover has been approached by large banks and technology companies about an acquisition of all or a
part of its business over the past decade or more.                  
                                                                    
Tech companies have been interested in acquiring its network so that they can play a more central role in
payments, but prior senior executives at Discover weren't interested in separating the company's credit-card
lending side from the network.                                      
For Capital One, the deal would also further expand the number of cardholders it will count as customers for
its credit-card lending business. Many Discover cardholders have high credit scores.
Discover also has consumer deposits, most of which are in savings accounts, allowing Capital One to
continue to expand its already large presence in that area.          
                                                                    
For about a decade now, big U.S. banks have aggressively competed for customers by rolling out new credit
cards or enhancing their existing ones with more cash-back offers or points programs that dangle the
possibility of free or discounted airfare, hotel stays or other travel perks.
Credit-card debt fell during the pandemic but is rising again. That translates into lucrative interest charges
that cardholders pay to the banks that issue their credit cards.    
Issuers face the risk of rising delinquencies and loan losses, however, if unemployment rises or a recession
occurs.                                                            
                                                                    
Rising credit-card usage is also a boon to the billions of dollars in interchange fees banks collect every year.
The fees are set by card networks and paid by merchants when consumers shop with cards. By owning the
Discover network, Capital One could negotiate interchange fees and other terms directly with merchants for
card transactions that travel over its network, making Capital One more of a competitor to Visa and
Mastercard.                                                         
An acquisition of Discover would rank among the biggest deals so far in 2024. After a lull in M&A activity in
2023 as economic and other uncertainty and increased interest rates took a bite out of the appetite for deals,
volumes have gotten off to a relatively strong start and are up 90% in the U.S. compared with a year earlier,
according to Dealogic.