 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and impact our results of operations or financial condition. The information presented below updates, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and information disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting adverse economic conditions have adversely impacted our business and results and could have a more material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The ongoing COVID-19 global and national health emergency has caused significant disruption in the United States and international economies and financial markets. The spread of COVID-19 in the United States has caused illness, quarantines, cancellation of events and travel, business and school shutdowns, reduction in commercial activity and financial transactions, supply chain interruptions, increased unemployment, and overall economic and financial market instability. Many states, including Arizona, where we are headquartered, and California and Nevada, in which we have significant operations, declared states of emergency. These states, like many others, continue to be significantly impacted by the pandemic. 

Although the Bank has continued operating, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused disruptions to our business and could cause material disruptions to our business and operations in the future. Impacts to our business have included the transition of a significant portion of our workforce to home locations, increases in costs due to additional health and safety precautions implemented at our branches, and an increase in draws on unfunded loan commitments and requests for forbearance and loan modifications. To the extent that commercial and social restrictions remain in place or increase, our expenses, delinquencies, foreclosures and credit losses may materially increase. In addition, the unprecedented nature of COVID-19 related disruptions heighten the inherent uncertainty of forecasting future economic conditions and their impact on our loan portfolio, and therefore increases the risk that the assumptions, judgments and estimates used to determine the appropriate allowance for future credit losses may prove to be incorrect, resulting in actual credit losses that exceed the Company&#8217;s recorded allowance. 

Unfavorable economic conditions also may make it more difficult for us to maintain deposit levels and loan origination volume and to obtain additional financing. Furthermore, such conditions have and may continue to adversely impact accounting estimates that we use to determine our allowance and provision for credit losses. Such conditions also could impact the value of assets we carry on our balance sheet such as goodwill, and cause the value of collateral associated with our existing loans to decline. Further, certain debt and equity instruments may experience significant fluctuations in value due to market disruption, widening of credit spreads, and governmental purchase intervention. 

In addition, in March 2020, the Federal Reserve lowered the target range for the federal funds rate to a range from 0 to 0.25 percent, in part as a result of the pandemic. Sudden or unexpectedly large changes in interest rates could impact our ability to effectively manage our interest rate risk and could result in maturity imbalances in our assets and liabilities. A prolonged period of very low interest rates or an increase in interest rates that affects our borrowers' ability to repay loans could reduce our net interest income and have a material adverse impact on our cash flows. 

While we have taken and are continuing to take actions to protect the safety and well-being of our employees and customers, no assurance can be given that the steps being taken will be deemed to be adequate or appropriate, nor can we predict the level of disruption which will occur to our employee's ability to perform their jobs or provide customer support and service. The continued or renewed spread of COVID-19 could negatively impact the availability of key personnel necessary to conduct our business, the business and operations of our third-party service providers who perform critical services for our business, or the businesses of many of our customers and borrowers. A sizable percentage of our workforce has returned to working in our office buildings, and it is possible that one or more members of our senior management or other key employees contracts the virus and is unable to perform their essential duties. At the same time, many of our employees and employees of companies we do business with continue to work remotely as a result of the pandemic, and the risk of cyber-attacks, breaches or similar events, whether through our systems or those of third parties on which we rely, therefore has increased. 

Among the factors outside our control that are likely to affect the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will ultimately have on our business are: 

&#8226; the pandemic&#8217;s course and severity; 

&#8226; the direct and indirect results of the pandemic, such as recessionary economic trends, including with respect to employment, wages and benefits, commercial activity, consumer spending and real estate market values; 

&#8226; political, legal and regulatory actions and policies in response to the pandemic, including the effects of restrictions on commerce and banking, such as moratoria and other suspensions of collections, foreclosures, and related obligations; 

&#8226; the timing, magnitude and effect of public spending, directly or through subsidies, its direct and indirect effects on commercial activity and incentives of employers and individuals to resume or increase employment, wages and benefits and commercial activity; 

&#8226; the timing and availability of direct and indirect governmental support for various financial assets, including mortgage loans; 

&#8226; the potential long-term impact on the tourism and hospitality industries, which could affect our hotel franchise finance business and portfolio; 

&#8226; the long-term effect of the economic downturn on our intangible assets such as our deferred tax asset and goodwill; 

&#8226; potential longer-term effects of increased government spending on the interest rate environment and borrowing costs for non-governmental parties; 

&#8226; the ability of our employees and our third-party vendors to work effectively during the course of the pandemic; 

&#8226; potential longer-term shifts toward mobile banking, telecommuting and telecommerce; and 

&#8226; geographic variation in the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including in states in which we operate physically such as Arizona, California and Nevada; 

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in severe volatility in the financial markets and meaningfully lower stock prices for many companies, including our common stock. Depending on the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the price of our common stock may continue to experience volatility and declines. 

The Company is a participating lender in the PPP, a loan program administered through the SBA, that was created to help eligible businesses, organizations and self-employed persons fund their operational costs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Under this program, the SBA guarantees 100% of the amounts loaned under the PPP. Certain ambiguities in the laws, rules and guidance regarding the requirements and operation of the PPP may expose the Company to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. For instance, other financial institutions have experienced litigation related to their policies and procedures for accepting and processing applications for the PPP. Any financial liability, litigation costs or reputational damage caused by PPP related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company may be exposed to credit risk on a PPP loan if a determination is made by the SBA that there is a deficiency in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced. In such a case, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already paid under the guaranty, seek recovery of any related loss from the Company. 

We are continuing to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and related risks, although the rapid development and fluidity of the situation precludes any specific prediction as to its ultimate impact on us. However, if the pandemic continues to spread or otherwise results in a continuation or worsening of the current economic and commercial environments, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, could be materially adversely affected. 

