 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our businesses, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by the COVID-19

pandemic. 

The coronavirus (COVID-19)

pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19

pandemic will negatively affect our businesses, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted.

While financial markets rebounded and economies began to reopen in the second quarter of 2020, many of the circumstances that arose or became more pronounced after the onset of the COVID-19

pandemic persisted at the end of the quarter, including (i) muted levels of business activity across many sectors of the economy, relatively weak consumer confidence and high unemployment; (ii) elevated levels of market volatility; (iii) the federal funds rate and yields on U.S. Treasury securities near zero; (iv) significantly reduced merger and acquisition activity and substantial uncertainty about whether previously announced deals will be completed or restructured; (v) heightened credit risk and increased incidence of defaults across various industries, including oil and gas, gaming and lodging, and airlines; (vi) greater emphasis by investors on liquidity products, which generate lower fees, relative to risk assets; and (vii) higher cybersecurity, information security and operational risks as a result of work-from-home arrangements.

Depending on the duration and severity of the pandemic going forward, as well as the effects of the pandemic on consumer and corporate confidence, the conditions noted above could continue for an extended period and other adverse developments may occur or reoccur, including (i) a repeat, or worse, of the decline in the valuation of equity, fixed-income and commodity markets that occurred at the outset of the pandemic; (ii) further declines in U.S. interest rates, to zero or below; (iii) market dislocations that may make hedging strategies less effective or ineffective; (iv) a reduction in fees on AUS due to declines in the valuation of assets or a protracted trend toward asset classes that generate lower fees; (v) disruption in the new issuance markets for debt and equity, leading to a decline in activity; (vi) a further deterioration in the liquidity profile of corporate borrowers, resulting in additional draws on credit lines; and (vii) greater challenges in valuing derivative positions and associated collateral, leading to significant increases in collateral calls and valuation disputes. 

&#160;

161 &#160; Goldman Sachs June 2020 Form 10-Q 

The effects of the COVID-19

pandemic on economic and market conditions have in the past and may in the future also increase demands on our liquidity as we meet client needs. Likewise, these adverse developments have in the past and may in the future affect our capital and leverage ratios. We have ceased purchases of our common stock in order to deploy more capital and liquidity to meet the needs of our clients, and such cessation is now required by the FRB to continue through the third quarter. The effects of the COVID-19

pandemic or FRB requirements may cause us to limit future capital distributions beyond the third quarter.

Governmental authorities worldwide have taken increased measures to stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The continued success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to address future market dislocations or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity. We also face an increased risk of client disputes, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the COVID-19

pandemic on economic and market conditions.

The length of the pandemic and the efficacy of the extraordinary measures that have been put in place to address it are unknown. Until the pandemic subsides, we may experience draws on lines of credit, reduced activity levels in investment banking, reduced revenues in our asset management and wealth management businesses and increased client defaults, including defaults in unsecured loans. Even after the pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy, as well as most other major economies, may continue to experience a recession, and we anticipate our businesses would be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged recession in the U.S. and other major markets. 

