```
The day after the presidential election, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, picked up his phone
for a call he had hoped not to make.                                    
Mr. Dimon, who had privately supported Vice President Kamala Harris and boasted to associates he hadn't
spoken to Donald J. Trump in years, was now in the position of calling the president-elect with
congratulations and an offer to help in any way. Mr. Trump didn't pick up, forcing Mr. Dimon to leave a
message on his voice mail, according to two people with knowledge of the call.
The snub -- and a subsequent missive from Mr. Trump on social media that Mr. Dimon would ''not be invited''
to be a part of his administration -- did not dampen the banker's enthusiasm. Mr. Dimon said a few days later
that his industry was ''dancing in the street'' over Mr. Trump's win and incoming Republican majorities in the
House of Representatives and Senate.                                    
With Trump 2.0, there does seem to be something for everyone in the financial arena: For bankers like Mr.
Dimon, high on the wish list is the loosening of looming capital requirements, known as the ''Basel III
endgame,'' that they say would reduce the amount of money they have available to lend, and ultimately profit.
International regulators have argued the proposed rules are needed to prevent another financial crisis.
Few expect such calamity in the short-term, but Wall Street's track record on economic projections is
famously spotty, and executives like Mr. Dimon have said they are girding for all possibilities. Last week,
Bank of America's chief executive, Brian Moynihan, expressed skepticism that Mr. Trump's so-called
Department of Government Efficiency, to be co-led by Elon Musk, with an aim of slashing federal spending,
would make much of a dent in anything.                                  

JPMORGAN CHASE                                                          
JPM +12%                                                                
Donald Trump's election victory powered a broad market rally Wednesday. Big winners included banks, which
rose on hopes for reduced regulation and higher interest income. JPMorgan Chase shares climbed 12% to a
record high. Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs both rose 13%. The prospect of lighter regulation and
protective tariffs drove gains in industrial stocks, including equipment makers and domestic steelmakers.
Bitcoin prices and crypto-linked stocks also rallied. Sectors expected to benefit from Democratic policies
declined sharply, including clean-energy and electric-car companies. Bucking the trend was Tesla, the EV
maker helmed by Trump ally and donor Elon Musk. Its shares rose 15%.    

JPMORGAN CHASE                                                          
JPM +4.4%                                                               
America's top banks kicked off earnings season with reassuring news. Both JPMorgan Chase and Wells
Fargo on Friday posted quarterly profits that fell from a year earlier, but by less than what analysts expected.
JPMorgan said profit decreased 2% to $12.9 billion, bolstered by lending profits and weighed down by
increased losses in credit-card loans. At Wells Fargo, profit dropped 11% to $5.11 billion, dragged down by
higher funding costs for customer deposits. JPMorgan said the economy remains strong for consumers and
big companies, a sign that the Federal Reserve may have achieved a soft landing. JPMorgan shares rose
4.4% Friday.                                                            
```