Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to Raymond James Financial, Inc., maintaining the table of contents and removing all extraneous information:

```
raymond_james_financial,_inc_2024_Q4

LIVE MARKETS-Investors should focus on fundamentals amidst election noise - Raymond James...................... 4

FOCUS-Florida-based fund managers ride out Hurricane Milton and remain committed to the state ................... 47

LIVE MARKETS-Investors should focus on fundamentals amidst election noise - Raymond James

Dow down ~0.5%, S&P 500 slips, Nasdaq now ~flat
Utilities weakest S&P sector; Energy leads gainers
Dollar edges lower; gold edges up; bitcoin off ~2%; crude up ~3%
U.S. 10-Year Treasury yield falls to ~4.32%

Welcome to the home for real-time coverage of markets brought to you by Reuters reporters. You can share your thoughts with us at
INVESTORS SHOULD FOCUS ON FUNDAMENTALS AMIDST ELECTION NOISE - RAYMOND JAMES

Investors should be focused on market fundamentals, particularly strong corporate earnings growth and recent economic data that support the Federal Reserve's soft landing narrative, regardless of the outcome of the U.S. election, said Raymond James Chief Market Strategist Matt Orton.
Americans will be heading to the polls in droves on Tuesday to choose between former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris in addition to deciding the composition of the next U.S. congress.
With the outcome of the contest to close to call, investors have largely remained jittery as demonstrated by elevated volatility across asset classes, including bonds and equities.

Nevertheless, the S&P 500 is still on track to post the third best election year performance since 1928 and the 17th best year over the same period, with November seasonality helping to support further market gains, Orton said in an investor note.
That is because of a continued favorable macroeconomic environment and a broadening out in strong corporate earnings across a wide range of sectors beyond mega-cap technology and artificial intelligence companies.
"In addition to the wide breadth of earnings beats, it's worth noting that the magnitude of the beats so far has been higher than usual, once the exceptional losses of Boeing have been stripped out," Orton said.
Thus, investors should expect to see volatility compress across asset classes once markets handle the election results, regardless of its outcome. Cyclical stocks will also likely see more upside buoyed by supportive earnings and the positive macroeconomic backdrop, Orton said.

While remaining overweight U.S. equities, investors can diversify their portfolios with international stocks including India and European financials. Finally, rather than trying to pick winners based on the election outcome, Orton recommended sticking with bipartisan investment themes including defense companies and infrastructure related equities, especially those linked with the build out of A.I, and sectors tied to bringing supply chains back to the U.S.

FOCUS-Florida-based fund managers ride out Hurricane Milton and remain committed to the state

Florida's financial community committed to Florida, defying hurricanes
Fund managers weigh lower taxes against insurance costs and rebuilding
Concerns rise over hiring and insurance costs in hurricane-prone Florida

(Updates with details of Milton making landfall)

Oct 9 (Reuters) - Florida's sun and low taxes enticed many hedge funds and other financial professionals to move south. Now another massive hurricane is putting that love affair to the test, but many big-name managers are committed to remaining in "Wall Street South" for the foreseeable future.
Hurricane Milton made landfall on Florida's west coast on Wednesday as a Category 3 hurricane. By early Thursday, it had dropped to a Category 1, with heavy rains and damaging storm surges, as it reached the state's Atlantic Coast.

The state has lured investors for years but its attractiveness only increased during the pandemic. Billionaire Carl Icahn uprooted his firm from New York to an office near Miami in 2020. Paul Singer's Elliott Investment Management followed later that year with an announcement that it was opening a West Palm Beach office. And Ken Griffin's Citadel said in 2022 that it was moving to Miami from Chicago.

Another firm in the path was Raymond James Financial, founded and still based in St. Petersburg. The 62-year-old brokerage and investment advisory firm evacuated staff from its head office on Tuesday.

The firm is maintaining service and support at back-up facilities and a spokesman declined to provide additional comment to its communications on social media.
```