Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2020_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          This Time, Firms Promise Concrete Action on Social Justice.................................................................................. 2
          Tapping Home Equity Becomes Tougher for Many Americans ............................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
          Business & Technology : Firms Aim To Forestall Consumer Defaults..................................................................... 8
          Banking & Finance: Morgan Accepts Bitcoin Firms as Clients................................................................................. 9
                                                                                  
          The Coronavirus Pandemic: Covid-19 Swept Through JPMorgan's Trading Floor................................................ 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ThisTime,FirmsPromiseConcreteActiononSocialJustice                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          This Time, Firms Promise Concrete Action on Social Justice              
          By Gillian Friedman                                                     
          1,346 words                                                             
          20 June 2020                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          3                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Friday will be a paid company holiday for employees at Nike. The same goes for workers at Twitter, Target,
          General Motors, the National Football League and a variety of other businesses. JPMorgan Chase, Capital
          One and other banks will close branches early.                          
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TappingHomeEquityBecomesTougherforManyAmericans                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tapping Home Equity Becomes Tougher for Many Americans                  
          By Orla McCaffrey                                                       
          958 words                                                               
          19 June 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Many lenders are getting stricter about offering the credit lines, known as Helocs. Both JPMorgan Chase &
          Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. have temporarily stopped accepting new Heloc applications, and other lenders
          have tightened standards.                                               
                                                                                  
          But in April, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo said they would temporarily stop accepting new Heloc applications.
          JPMorgan cited high unemployment rates and projections that housing prices would fall.
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business&Technology:FirmsAimToForestallConsumerDefaults                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business & Technology: Firms Aim To Forestall Consumer Defaults         
          By Nina Trentmann and Mark Maurer                                       
          254 words                                                               
          18 May 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Financial institutions from American Express Co. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. are offering delayed payments,
          fee waivers and other credit relief to consumers as more than 36 million Americans filed for unemployment
          claims in the weeks after many states locked down nonessential businesses to curb the spread of the
          coronavirus.                                                            
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan is providing payment relief for hundreds of thousands of consumer accounts, including offering
          90-day grace periods for mortgage, auto and car payments, as well as waiving or refunding certain fees.
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:MorganAcceptsBitcoinFirmsasClients                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Morgan Accepts Bitcoin Firms as Clients              
          By Paul Vigna                                                           
          612 words                                                               
          13 May 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. has taken on two bitcoin exchanges, Coinbase Inc. and Gemini Trust Co., as banking
          customers, according to people familiar with the matter, the first time the bank has accepted clients from the
          cryptocurrency industry.                                                
                                                                                  
          The bank is primarily providing cash-management services to the firms and handling dollar-based
          transactions for the exchanges' U.S.-based customers, according to the people. It will process wire transfers,
          and deposits and withdrawals through the Automated Clearing House network, an electronic funds-transfer
          system.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's services don't extend to any bitcoin or cryptocurrency-based transactions. The firms handle
          those themselves.                                                       
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan took a notable step in extending services to businesses built around bitcoin. Such businesses
          have for years been blocked by banks from opening up accounts. Bankers were concerned with exposing
          themselves to bitcoin's shadier uses, such as money laundering, and the added glare from regulators.
                                                                                  
          For JPMorgan, the new relationship with Coinbase and Gemini is the latest step in what has been a long and
          sometimes acrimonious relationship with digital money. Chief Executive James Dimon has been a high-profile
          critic of bitcoin in the past. But the bank itself experimented extensively with blockchain, bitcoin's underlying
          technology, and more recently implemented its own digital currency, JPM Coin, for digital payments among
          its clients.                                                            
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheCoronavirusPandemic:Covid-19SweptThroughJPMorgan'sTradingFloor       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Coronavirus Pandemic: Covid-19 Swept Through JPMorgan's Trading Floor
          By Rob Copeland and David Benoit                                        
          981 words                                                               
          4 April 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          March 9 was supposed to be the start of a new routine for JPMorgan Chase & Co. employees. With
          coronavirus spreading, the bank had told the staff in its stock-trading operation to head to three separate sites
          around New York City.                                                   
          Hours before the workday began, with global markets plunging, technology at the sites wasn't ready.
          JPMorgan top brass reversed the order and told many traders to report for duty, as usual, to the firm's
          Manhattan headquarters, employees said.                                 
          An employee who wasn't feeling well came to the office. JPMorgan traded more shares that Monday than any
          day in the bank's history. The sick employee turned out to have Covid-19, and over the past three weeks,
          about 20 employees on a single floor at the bank's headquarters have tested positive for the virus, with
          another 65 quarantined as a result.                                     
                                                                                  
          For JPMorgan, the consequences of keeping employees in the office have been swift and painful. The
          outbreak has rattled rank-and-file employees, who said they feel the bank took a gamble with their health to
          protect a prized business.                                              
                                                                                  
          A JPMorgan spokesman said that more than 80% of the firm's traders are working remotely and those in the
          office have been spaced more than 6 feet apart. Employees deemed at risk of infection have been sent
          home. Managers were instructed to tell employees they are free to work remotely, the spokesman said.
          "We recognize how stressful this is for those employees on the front lines who are supporting global
          markets," a spokesman said.                                             
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's coronavirus outbreak is concentrated on the fifth floor of the bank's Madison Avenue
          headquarters, a tight web of desks for those who buy and sell stocks and pitch clients on trades.
                                                                                  
          By then, companies that had been merely advising employees to stay home were now making it mandatory.
          All the while, global markets were haywire. That Thursday, March 12, the S&P 500 posted one of its biggest
          one-day drops in history. Friday brought one of its largest-ever gains. JPMorgan's trading volume was hitting
          records. A group focused on volatility trading made about $1.5 billion in revenue as of late March, employees
          said.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          On March 20, Gov. Andrew Cuomo ordered all nonessential businesses to close. That weekend, JPMorgan
          threw out its original plans to separate people and said most would work from home.
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
```