 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of Certain Assets and Assuming Certain Liabilities of Signature Bridge Bank, N.A. 

On March 20, 2023, NYCB&#8217;s banking subsidiary, Flagstar, acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Signature Bridge Bank, National Association (&#8220;Signature&#8221;) from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;), as receiver, in an assisted transaction (herein, the &#8220;Signature Transaction&#8221;). Although this is an FDIC-assisted transaction, we are still subject to some of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction. Such risks include risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because of the expedited nature of the FDIC-assisted transaction which did not allow bidders the time and access to information customarily associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated transaction, we may face additional risks 

The success of the Signature Transaction will depend on a number of uncertain factors. 

The success of the Signature Transaction will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: 

&#8226; our ability to integrate the business and operations of the former Signature into NYCB&#8217;s current operations; 

&#8226; our ability to retain employees of Signature Bridge Bank; 

&#8226; our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired in the Signature Transaction; 

&#8226; our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the areas previously served by the former Signature branches; 

&#8226; our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the former Signature branches and other units in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio and our ability to effectively manage the on-going relationship with the FDIC related to the Signature Transaction; 

&#8226; our ability to collect on the loans acquired; and 

&#8226; our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income. 

Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects . 

We are in ongoing discussions with the FDIC regarding the fair value of the assets acquired in the Signature Transaction, and a settlement statement reconciled by both parties has not yet been finalized, which may impact which assets and liabilities we acquired or assumed in the Signature Transaction. Therefore the fair value estimates we have made in connection with the Signature Transaction are currently considered preliminary and may be subject to change. In addition, we may obtain additional information and evidence during the period of one year from the date we completed the Signature Transaction that may result in changes to the estimated fair value amounts recorded on March 20, 2023, which could change the amount of the bargain purchase gain we have recorded. 

Bargain purchase gain recorded on the Signature Transaction may increase or decrease during a one-year period following the Signature Transaction's acquisition date. 

The bargain purchase gain recorded during the quarter ended March 31, 2023 is preliminary and subject to revision for a period of one year from March 20, 2023. Adjustments to this gain may be recorded based on additional information received after the acquisition date that affected the acquisition date fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 

A sale by an individual shareholder of a significant amount of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of NYCB&#8217;s common stock. 

As part of the consideration for the Signature Transaction, the Company granted the FDIC equity appreciation rights in the common stock of the Company under an equity appreciation instrument (the "Equity Appreciation Instrument"). On March 31, 2023, the Company issued 39,032,006 shares of Company common stock to the FDIC pursuant to the Equity Appreciation Instrument. Under terms of the Equity Appreciation Instrument, the FDIC will use all reasonable efforts to sell these shares over a 40-day period beginning April 28, 2023. 

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by existing shareholders, or the perception that sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Further, a large quantity of our shares introduced into the market, either at once or over time, could increase the supply of our common stock, thereby putting pressure on our stock price. Pricing pressure could be further exacerbated by low trading volumes and market conditions, both of which may impact the time it may take for pricing to rationalize. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, also may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 

The loss of our deposit clients or substantial reduction of our deposit balances could force us to fund our business with more expensive and less stable funding sources. 

Deposits represent a significant amount of our funding base. Deposit outflows can occur for a number of reasons, including because clients may seek investments with higher yields, clients with uninsured deposits may seek greater financial security or clients may simply prefer to do business with our competitors, or for other reasons. If a significant portion of our deposits were withdrawn, we may need to rely more heavily on more expensive borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. In more stressed conditions we may need to take more significant actions which could impact our operations and profitability. The occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. As of March 31, 2023, approximately 34 percent of our total deposits of $84.8 billion were not FDIC-insured. 

In March 2023, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC issued a joint statement that stated that losses to support uninsured deposits of failed banks would be recovered via a special assessment on banks who utilize deposit insurance. The terms of that special assessment have not been announced. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase related to the announced special assessment and any future increases in assessment rates, required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums or other changes could reduce our profitability. 

