 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

There are no material changes from any of the risk factors previously disclosed in our 2022 Form 10-K in response to Part II, Item 1A and Part I, Item 1A, respectively, other than the addition of the following risk factor: 

A continuation of recent turmoil in our industry, and responsive measures to manage it, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 

In recent months, several financial services institutions have failed or required outside liquidity support&#8212;in many cases, as a result of the inability of the institutions to obtain needed liquidity. The impact of this situation has led to risk of additional stress to other financial services institutions and the financial services industry generally as a result of increased lack of confidence in the financial sector. U.S. and international regulators have taken action in an effort to strengthen public confidence in the banking system, including the creation of a new Bank Term Funding Program and international coordination to enhance the provision of liquidity via the standing U.S. dollar liquidity swap line arrangements. There can be no assurance that these actions will stabilize the financial services industry and financial markets. While we currently do not anticipate liquidity constraints of the kind that caused certain other financial services institutions to fail or require external support, constraints on our liquidity could occur as a result of unanticipated deposit withdrawals because of market distress or our inability to access other sources of liquidity, including through the capital markets due to unforeseen market dislocations or interruptions. Moreover, some of our customers may become less willing to maintain deposits at PNC because of broader market concerns with the level of insurance available on those deposits. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by continued soundness concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically and limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system as well as the impact of excessive deposit withdrawals. 

