bank_of_america_corporation_2023_Q2

International investors have soured so much on Chinese initial public offerings that investment banks are
backing out of potential listings and even small deals have become a tough sell.
Goldman Sachs Group has given up several mandates for IPOs in Hong Kong this year, including deals for a
dermatology company and an online marketplace for pharmaceutical products, according to filings with the
city's stock exchange. Bank of America has left its role in the coming IPO of Growatt Technology, which
makes inverters for solar panels.                                       
Banks seldom relinquish IPO mandates after receiving them. The moves reflect how difficult the market is for
Chinese companies that want to go public on international stock exchanges. Nearly 90 companies have
active listing applications for the Hong Kong exchange's main board, according to official figures as of May
31. But falling stock prices, heightened political tensions between Washington and Beijing and China's
sputtering economic recovery have been turnoffs for many global investors.
New and secondary listings in Hong Kong have raised $2.05 billion this year, down 12% from a year earlier, a
far cry from the city's IPO volumes in years past. The average deal size so far in 2023 has been about $80
million, according to Dealogic data.                                    
Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rallied in January, after investors bet on a rapid economic recovery following
the end of China's strict zero-Covid policies. But the index, which includes many of China's largest
companies, has fallen more than 14% since closing at its highest level this year on Jan. 27.
Even small listings with an obvious sales pitch have faltered recently. Star Plus Legend Holdings, which
makes a type of diet coffee, postponed its $101.8 million Hong Kong IPO last week after launching its stock
sale. The company was co-founded by the mother of Taiwanese pop star Jay Chou and owns
intellectual-property rights to a reality show he stars in, as well as other events and content centered around
him.                                                                    
Goldman chose to back away from the IPOs of YSB, a Chinese company that operates a pharmaceutical
marketplace for businesses, and Shanghai-based Cutia Therapeutics, which specializes in skin treatments.
The New York bank viewed the current market demand to be too weak for the listings to do well, according to
people familiar with the matter. In April, Goldman stepped back from its role as an overall coordinator in the
IPO of Beijing Fourth Paradigm Technology, an artificial-intelligence company that was added to an export
blacklist by the U.S. Commerce Department in March.                     
Goldman advised YSB and Cutia to wait until market conditions improve, the people said, but the companies
ultimately chose to push ahead. Cutia raised $59.4 million from a Hong Kong listing that priced last week. It
came in near the bottom of its price range. YSB is planning to launch a deal this week.
Shenzhen-based Growatt Technology, the solar-products company, last year postponed its listing plans and
is planning to relaunch its IPO. Bank of America Merrill Lynch had been coordinating Growatt's listing attempt,
but is no longer involved in the deal.                                  
Many deal makers have a gloomy outlook for the IPO market this year, after starting 2023 with a sense of
optimism following the end of zero-Covid. They say policy stimulus from China, a continued rise in stock
prices elsewhere and more clarity about U.S. interest rates are among the prerequisites for deals to return.

JPMorgan, PNC and Bank of America are said to be interested in acquiring the troubled lender after it is
seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.                    
Federal regulators were racing on Saturday to seize and sell the troubled First Republic Bank before financial
markets open on Monday, according to several people with knowledge of the matter, in a bid to put an end to
a banking crisis that began last month with the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.
The effort, led by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, comes after First Republic's shares tumbled 75
percent since Monday, when the bank disclosed that customers had withdrawn more than half of its deposits.
It became clear this past week that nobody was willing to ride to First Republic's rescue before a government
seizure because larger banks were worried that buying the company would saddle them with billions of
dollars in losses.                                                      
The F.D.I.C. has been talking with banks that include JPMorgan Chase, PNC Financial Services and Bank of
America about a potential deal, three of the people said. A deal could be announced as soon as Sunday,
these people said, cautioning the situation was rapidly evolving and might still change. Any buyer would most
likely assume the deposits of First Republic, eliminating the need for a government guarantee of deposits in
excess of $250,000 -- the limit for deposit insurance.                  
It's possible that an agreement won't be reached, in which case the F.D.I.C. would need to decide if it would
seize First Republic anyway and take ownership itself. In that case, federal officials could invoke a systemic
risk exception to protect those bigger deposits, something they did after the failures of Silicon Valley Bank
and Signature Bank in March.                                            
The bank regulator started sounding out potential buyers late last week as it became clear that there were
few options outside a government- takeover, one of the people said. By Friday, the F.D.I.C. asked potential
bidders to submit binding offers by Sunday, this person said. Those potential bidders have been given access
to detailed information on First Republic's finances, one of the people said.
The people requested anonymity because the process is confidential. Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal
reported the talks earlier. The F.D.I.C. declined to comment. The F.D.I.C. is working with the financial
advisory firm Guggenheim Partners on the process, according to three people with knowledge of the
situation.                                                              
Regulations preclude JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America from acquiring another deposit-taking bank
because of their size, and regulators would have to grant an exemption if one of those banks were to acquire
First Republic.                                                         
Progressive Democrats were not thrilled about having JPMorgan or Bank of America take over the bank,
given that such a deal would make the already huge institutions larger, and that probably tilted things slightly
toward PNC, another person familiar with the situation said. Some other smaller regional banks also showed
some interest in First Republic, this person said.                      
JPMorgan Chase, PNC and Bank of America were part of a consortium of 11 large banks that temporarily
deposited $30 billion into First Republic last month as part of an industry effort to prop up the bank. But that
lifeline did little to put to rest concerns about First Republic's viability.
First Republic, which is based in San Francisco and has most of its branches on the coasts where it serves
affluent customers who work in industries like technology and finance, has been considered the most
vulnerable regional bank since the banking crisis began unfolding in March with the sudden collapse of

The four biggest U.S. consumer banks by deposits, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase
and Wells Fargo & Co., say they run multiple layers of authentication and monitoring tools from the moment
users open the app until they log out.                                  
"We have multiple and redundant controls that are not always visible to our end user," said Tami Hudson,
Wells Fargo's executive vice president and cybersecurity client officer. "Those things really help us to
proactively identify login attempts that we would define as risky or potentially risky."
What the banks do                                                       
                                                                                  
In the past, you might have been asked to answer security questions -- "What was the name of your first
pet?"                                                                   
Now, newer behind-the-scenes measures take precedence, say security experts and banking software
providers. Some compare a user's password-typing speed and cadence with that person's prior attempts.
Others analyze the pressure with which credentials are entered by checking how many pixels are covered
when the user taps each key.                                            
This melange of authentication practices is found largely in banking apps because the stakes are higher.
Banks know if customers have any concerns about the safety of their money, they'll go elsewhere. On top of
that, banks must abide by federal regulations to use secure data management practices, such as end-to-end
encryption.                                                             
All of that weighs on a bank's decision to approve a login or transaction, said John Buzzard, lead fraud and
security analyst at Javelin Strategy & Research, which assesses risks in digital banking security.
"If there is a sudden about-face somewhere, there's an opportunity for banks to stop it, pause it or request
more information," he added.                                            
                                                                                  
These tools aren't failproof. If you have your login credentials stored on your smartphone, a phone thief who
also knows your passcode may still be able to use autofill to log in. "But the secret sauce determines how far
they go once they get through," Mr. Buzzard said.                       
Even if these defenses are breached and money is stolen -- more often through victim manipulation than
actual hacking -- the funds are generally protected in other ways, too. 
What you can do                                                         
                                                                                  
The four banks we spoke to say protecting users from swindlers means not revealing every tool they have at
their disposal. Still, each shared information about its techniques.    
All four support Face ID and Touch ID for Apple devices, and fingerprint sign-on for Android phones.
Biometrics can make signing in easy for you and harder for people who aren't you, Mr. Buzzard said. The
apps also automatically log you out after a short period of inactivity. 
There might be other security layers, such as transaction alerts, two-factor (aka two-step) authentication and
single-use passwords, that you choose to activate. Banks don't turn everything on by default because they
don't want to create too much friction, Mr. Buzzard said.               
If you do want to do more, here are security options offered by the individual banks:
                                                                                  
Bank of America: The bank will ask to verify your identity via two-factor at various times, like when you're
making a transfer or using an unrecognized device. But you can have it prompt with a code via text or email
every time you log in on the mobile app.                                
Find the tool in the bank's Security Center, which has a checklist detailing other ways to improve your
account's security.