 ITEM 1A. RISK FA CTORS 

An investment in the Company&#8217;s common stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in the common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the common stock could decline significantly and all or part of an investment could be lost. 

Risks Associated with the Company&#8217;s Business 

Interest Rate Risks 

The Company&#8217;s business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. 

The majority of the Company&#8217;s assets are monetary in nature, and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company&#8217;s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company&#8217;s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. 

Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company&#8217;s control, including general economic conditions, inflationary trends, changes in government spending and debt issuances and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, and could also affect (1) the Company&#8217;s ability to originate loans, such as decreased demand due to higher interest rates, and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of the Company&#8217;s financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of the Company&#8217;s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company&#8217;s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings also could be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments decrease more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Further, the Company&#8217;s assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company may be adversely impacted by the transition from LIBOR as a reference rate. 

The United Kingdom&#8217;s Financial Conduct Authority and the administrator of LIBOR have announced that the publication of the most commonly used U.S. dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;) settings will cease to be published or cease to be representative after June 30, 2023. The publication of all other LIBOR settings ceased to be published as of December 31, 2021. Given consumer protection, litigation, and reputation risks, the bank regulatory agencies have indicated that entering into new contracts that use LIBOR as a reference rate after December 31, 2021, would create safety and soundness risks and that they will examine bank practices accordingly. The Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, enacted in March 2022, provides a statutory framework to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR with a benchmark rate based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (&#8220;SOFR&#8221;) for contracts governed by U.S. law that have no or ineffective fallbacks, and in December 2022, the Federal Reserve Board adopted related implementing rules. Although governmental authorities have endeavored to facilitate an orderly discontinuation of LIBOR, no assurance can be provided that this aim will be achieved or that the use, level, and volatility of LIBOR or other interest rates or the value of LIBOR-based securities will not be adversely affected. As a result, and despite the enactment of the LIBOR Act, for the most commonly used LIBOR settings, the use or selection of a successor rate could expose the Company to risks associated with disputes and litigation with the Company&#8217;s customers and counterparties and other market participants in connection with implementing LIBOR fallback provisions. The majority of loans originally priced based on a LIBOR index were converted to either a SOFR or BSBY (Bloomberg Index Services) index prior to December 31, 2022. The remaining LIBOR-priced loans are expected to be converted to an alternative index prior to June 30, 2023. The Bank is coordinating with customers to implement an orderly change of loan pricing indices, without undue disruption to the Bank&#8217;s customers or its lending processes. 

As of December 31, 2022, approximately $291.4 million of the Company&#8217;s outstanding loans and certain derivative contracts, borrowings and other financial instruments have attributes that are either directly or indirectly dependent on LIBOR. The Company is subject to litigation and reputational risks if it is unable to renegotiate and amend the remaining existing contracts with counterparties that are dependent on LIBOR, including contracts that do not have fallback language. The timing and manner in which each customer&#8217;s contract transitions to a replacement rate will vary on a case-by-case basis. Interest payments under contracts referencing 

new indices will differ from those referencing a LIBOR index. Since any replacement rate will change interest payment calculations, failure to complete an orderly transition prior to June 30, 2023 could adversely affect customer relationships and the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Credit and Lending Risks 

The Company&#8217;s business depends on its ability to successfully manage credit risk. 

The Company&#8217;s business depends on its ability to successfully measure and manage credit risk. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that the principal of, or interest on, a loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting a loan will be insufficient to cover the Company&#8217;s outstanding exposure. In addition, the Company is exposed to risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual loans and borrowers. The creditworthiness of a borrower is affected by many factors including local market conditions and general economic conditions. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or the Company&#8217;s market areas, specifically, experiences material disruption, the Company&#8217;s borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral the Company holds may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require significant additional provisions for credit losses. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower's ability to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting their market for products and services, to evaluate regulatory changes affecting their products and services, such as climate change regulation, and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property. 

In addition, financial markets and global supply chains may be adversely affected by the current or anticipated impact of military conflict, including the current Russian invasion of Ukraine, terrorism or other geopolitical events. Current economic conditions are significantly affected by elevated levels of inflation and rising interest rates. A prolonged period of inflation may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s profitability by causing fixed costs and expenses to increase. Meanwhile, economic and inflationary pressure on consumers and uncertainty regarding the prospects for economic improvement could alter consumer and business spending, borrowing and savings habits. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company&#8217;s loans and on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, evolving responses from federal and state governments and other regulators, and the Company&#8217;s customers or vendors, to new challenges such as climate change have impacted and could continue to impact the economic and political conditions under which the Company operates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company&#8217;s risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of the Company&#8217;s loans within specific industries and the Company&#8217;s credit approval, review and administrative practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and the Company&#8217;s credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio. Many of the Company&#8217;s loans are made to businesses that are less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers. Consequently, the Company may have significant exposure if any of these borrowers becomes unable to pay their loan obligations as a result of economic or market conditions, or personal circumstances, such as divorce or death. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs, and may necessitate that the Company significantly increase its allowance for credit losses, each of which could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s net income. As a result, the Company&#8217;s inability to successfully manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company&#8217;s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. 

As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional credit losses could occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks, future trends and general economic conditions, including inflation and recession, all of which may undergo material changes. If the Company&#8217;s assumptions prove to be incorrect or if it experiences significant credit losses in future periods, its current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. A material addition to the allowance could cause net income, and possibly capital, to decrease. 

In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company&#8217;s allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company&#8217;s management. An increase in the Company&#8217;s allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s operating results and financial condition. 

The Financial Accounting Standards Board&#8217;s accounting standard, ASU 2016-13, which established allowances for credit losses became effective for the Company on January 1, 2020. This methodology, known as CECL, reflects the expected credit losses over the lives of financial assets starting when such assets are first acquired. Under this methodology, credit losses are measured based on past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of financial assets. The standard resulted in an increase to allowance and required the application of the revised methodology to existing financial assets through a one-time adjustment to retained earnings. See &#8220;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8212;Note 1&#8212;Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies&#8221;. 

The Company&#8217;s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. 

The Company&#8217;s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the primary markets in Texas and Oklahoma in which it operates and where its loans are concentrated. The local economic conditions in Texas and Oklahoma have a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s commercial, real estate and construction, land development and other land loans; the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans; and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Accordingly, if the population or income growth in the Company&#8217;s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company&#8217;s expansion, growth and profitability. In addition, due to the large number of oil and gas companies in the Company&#8217;s market areas, the volatility in oil prices may negatively impact economic conditions in these areas. If the Company&#8217;s market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company could experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, an increase or decline in commodity prices, recession, weather extremes, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Company&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The Company&#8217;s dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects it to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Approximately 79.9% of the Company&#8217;s total loans as of December 31, 2022 consisted of loans included in the real estate loan portfolio, with 29.2% in commercial real estate (including farmland and multifamily residential), 35.8% in residential real estate (including home equity) and 14.9% in construction, land development and other land loans. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in the Company&#8217;s primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by the Company. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase its allowance for credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The Company&#8217;s commercial real estate and commercial loans expose it to increased credit risks, and these risks will increase if the Company succeeds in increasing these types of loans. 

The Company, while maintaining its conservative approach to lending, has emphasized both new and existing loan products, focusing on managing its commercial real estate (including farmland and multifamily residential) and commercial loan portfolios, and intends to continue to increase its lending activities and acquire loans in possible future acquisitions. As a result, commercial real estate and commercial loans as a proportion of its portfolio could increase. As of December 31, 2022, commercial real estate (including farmland and multifamily residential) and commercial loans totaled $8.10 billion. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial loans yield higher returns and often generate a deposit relationship, but also pose greater credit risks than do owner-occupied residential real estate loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans. Accordingly, the deterioration of one or several of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in a loss of earnings from these loans and an increase in the provision for credit losses and net charge-offs. 

The Company makes both secured and some unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers&#8217; businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, 

commercial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, while commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans. As the Company&#8217;s various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. 

The Company may be adversely affected by weaknesses in the commercial real estate market. 

As of December 31, 2022, commercial real estate loans (including multifamily residential and excluding farmland) comprised approximately 26.5% of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio. Commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than residential real estate loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the businesses which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower&#8217;s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulations. Commercial real estate markets have been impacted by the economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has also been a catalyst for the evolution of various remote work options that could have an adverse effect on the long-term performance of some types of office properties within the Company&#8217;s commercial real estate portfolio. A failure by the Company to have adequate risk management policies, procedures and controls could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to increase this portfolio going forward and could result in an increased rate of delinquencies in, and increased losses from, this portfolio, which, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company&#8217;s Warehouse Purchase Program balances can fluctuate widely. 

Because Warehouse Purchase Program balances are contingent upon residential mortgage lending activity, changes in the residential real estate market nationwide can lead to wide fluctuations of balances in this product, materially impacting both interest and non-interest income. Additionally, Warehouse Purchase Program period-end balances are generally higher than the average balance during the period due to increased mortgage activity that occurs at the end of a month, which can significantly impact the Company&#8217;s reported capital ratios. 

The Company&#8217;s loan portfolio, and specifically its energy lending portfolio, could be adversely affected by declines in the prices of oil and natural gas, as well as other factors. 

Loans to oil and gas production and service companies, which are reported as commercial and industrial loans, totaled $429.5 million (net of discount and excluding PPP loans totaling $3.4 million) at December 31, 2022, representing approximately 2.3% of total loans, excluding Warehouse Purchase Program loans. As a result, the factors that impact the energy sector may have a greater effect on the Company than on more broadly diversified financial institutions. Companies with exposure to the energy sector, whether directly or indirectly, are subject to volatile fluctuations in price and supply of oil and gas. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence prices of these commodities, including: 

&#8226; domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, including increased availability of non-traditional energy resources such as shale oil and gas; 

&#8226; prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; 

&#8226; domestic and worldwide economic conditions, and the resulting global demand for oil and natural gas; 

&#8226; the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (&#8220;OPEC&#8221;) to set and maintain production levels for oil, and decisions by OPEC and non-OPEC producers to change production levels; 

&#8226; sanctions imposed by the U.S., the European Union, or other governments against oil producing countries; 

&#8226; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; 

&#8226; the level of excess production capacity, available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity; 

&#8226; lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel; 

&#8226; the expected rates of decline in production from existing and prospective wells; 

&#8226; the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; 

&#8226; federal, state and local regulation of exploration and drilling activities and oil and gas exports, including climate change regulation; 

&#8226; legislative and regulatory interest within federal, state and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing activities (also known as &#8220;fracking&#8221;) or emissions; 

&#8226; weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area and severe winter weather that can interfere with oil and gas development and production operations; 

&#8226; political instability and social unrest throughout the world, such as in Ukraine, and particularly in oil and natural gas producing countries; 

&#8226; advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption (such as fracking); 

&#8226; the price and availability of alternative fuel and energy sources; 

&#8226; the transition to alternate energy sources, like wind and solar; 

&#8226; uncertainty in capital and commodities markets; and 

&#8226; changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major global currencies. 

&#160; 

Further, the economy in Texas as a whole could be negatively impacted if there are a high number of jobs lost related to a decline in oil production in the state, or if the impact of lower oil prices negatively affects other industries. A decline in the Texas economy related to oil production decline could impact the Company&#8217;s loan portfolios outside of the energy portfolio, if borrowers experience unemployment or loss of income and are unable to make payments on their loans. 

The Company is subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, correspondents or other third parties. 

The Company relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans the Company will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which the Company relies is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or the Company may fund a loan that it would not have funded or on terms it would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses the Company may suffer. 

The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. 

A significant portion of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans, and there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property&#8217;s value or limit the Company&#8217;s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company&#8217;s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. 

Liquidity Risks 

Liquidity risk could impair the Company&#8217;s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. 

Liquidity is essential to the Company&#8217;s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on its liquidity. The Company&#8217;s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities or on terms which are acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company&#8217;s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which its loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against it. The Company&#8217;s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 

The Company relies on customer deposits as a significant source of funding, and its deposits may decrease in the future. 

The Company relies on customer deposits as a significant source of funding. Competition among U.S. banks for customer deposits is intense, may increase the cost of deposits or prevent new deposits, and may otherwise negatively affect the Company&#8217;s ability to grow its deposit base. The Company&#8217;s deposit accounts may decrease in the future, and any such decrease could have an adverse impact on the Company&#8217;s sources of funding, which impact could be material. Any changes the Company makes to the rates offered on its deposit products to remain competitive with other financial institutions may adversely affect its profitability and liquidity. The demand for the deposit products the Company offers may also be reduced due to a variety of factors such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences, changes in interest rates, payment of interest on demand deposits by other financial institutions, reductions in consumers&#8217; disposable income, regulatory actions that decrease customer access to particular products or the availability of competing products, including from new financial technology competitors or competitors that provide customers with alternate investment options. 

The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed on acceptable terms or at all. 

The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet regulatory capital requirements or its commitments and business needs. In addition, the Company may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any. If needed, the Company&#8217;s ability to raise additional capital will depend on many things, including conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside its control, and its financial performance. 

Such capital may not be available to the Company on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company&#8217;s access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of investors, depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Moreover, if the Company needs to raise capital in the future, it may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Strategic Risks 

If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. 

To achieve its past levels of growth, the Company has focused on both internal growth and acquisitions. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. More specifically, the Company may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions, competition and heightened regulatory scrutiny, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers and the completion of acquisitions. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. 

If the Company is unable to manage its growth effectively, its operations and profitability could be negatively affected. 

The Company faces a variety of risks and difficulties pursuing its growth strategy, including: 

&#8226; finding suitable markets for expansion; 

&#8226; finding suitable candidates for acquisition; 

&#8226; attracting funding to support additional growth; 

&#8226; maintaining asset quality; 

&#8226; attracting and retaining qualified management; 

&#8226; managing execution risks; 

&#8226; maintaining adequate regulatory capital; and 

&#8226; scaling technology platforms. 

In addition, in order to manage its growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within its organization, the Company must identify, hire and retain additional qualified associates, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of its business. 

If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement its business strategy and successfully conduct its operations. 

If the Company is unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate its acquired businesses, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. 

The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and the Company may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that the Company is unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of its growth strategy may be lost. 

Acquisitions of financial institutions, such as the pending acquisitions of First Bancshares and Lone Star, involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company&#8217;s organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions; and, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires and eliminate redundancies. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of the combined entity&#8217;s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company&#8217;s management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. The Company&#8217;s inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or failure to successfully integrate the entities it acquires into its existing operations may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect its business and earnings. Acquisitions may also result in potential dilution to existing shareholders of the Company&#8217;s earnings per share if the Company issues common stock in connection with an acquisition. 

Acquisitions may be delayed, impeded, or prohibited due to regulatory issues. 

Acquisitions by financial institutions are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years and may become even more challenging following the review of the merger application process by the federal banking agencies and potentially the CFPB and the review of the competitive effects process by the Department of Justice. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues the Company has, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to Bank Secrecy Act compliance, Community Reinvestment Act issues, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations and other similar laws and regulations. The Company may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of its inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

If the goodwill that the Company recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings. 

Goodwill represents the amount by which the acquisition cost exceeds the fair value of net assets the Company acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. 

The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in the Company&#8217;s results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At December 31, 2022, the Company&#8217;s goodwill totaled $3.23 billion. Although the Company has not recorded any such impairment charges since it initially recorded the goodwill, the Company&#8217;s future evaluations of goodwill could result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 

Operational Risks 

The Company&#8217;s accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models and tools that may prove to be inaccurate. 

The processes the Company uses to estimate its expected credit losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models and tools. These models and tools reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models and tools may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. Any such failure in the Company&#8217;s analytical or forecasting models and tools could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

An interruption in or breach in security of the Company&#8217;s information systems may result in a loss of customer business and have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether caused by physical damage, hackers, viruses or other malware, could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company&#8217;s computer systems and network infrastructure as well as result in failures or disruptions in the Company&#8217;s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. The amount of specific &#8220;cyber&#8221; insurance coverage that the Company maintains and expects would apply in the event of various breach scenarios may not be adequate in any particular case. In addition, cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some of which may not be covered under the Company&#8217;s cyber insurance coverage. Security measures that the Company, with the help of third-party service providers, has implemented or intends to continue to implement to prevent damage from cyberattacks may not entirely mitigate these risks. In addition, increases in cyber threats and the sophistication of bad actors, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms the Company and its third-party service providers use to protect client transaction data. Although the Company makes significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of its information systems and has implemented various measures to manage the risks of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Breaches also may occur as a result of remote working arrangements. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company&#8217;s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

The Company is subject to certain risks in connection with its use of technology. 

The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Company&#8217;s future success depends in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company&#8217;s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, which may negatively affect the Company&#8217;s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, as technology advances, the ability to initiate transactions and access data has become more widely distributed among mobile devices, personal computers, automated teller machines, remote deposit capture sites and similar access points. These technological advances increase cybersecurity risk. The Company&#8217;s programs that are intended to prevent or limit the effects of cybersecurity risk may not be sufficient to eliminate all unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information. The financial, reputational and regulatory impact of unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information could be significant. 

The Company&#8217;s operations rely on external vendors, which may fail to provide adequate services. 

The Company relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations. These third parties provide key components of the Company&#8217;s business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections and network access, but the Company does not control their actions. Any complications caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt the Company&#8217;s operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor&#8217;s ability to provide services. 

Furthermore, the Company&#8217;s vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints, and reputational risk. Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Problems caused by external vendors could be disruptive to the Company&#8217;s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company&#8217;s business and, in turn, the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company&#8217;s business may be adversely affected by consolidations of technology vendors. 

The Company relies on certain external vendors for core products and services. Consolidations among core vendors may have the effect of decreasing price competition that may lead to higher vendor costs and may also increase systemic risk from vendors that could affect the Company&#8217;s operations. 

The Company&#8217;s business may be adversely affected by security breaches at third parties. 

The Company&#8217;s customers interact with their own and other third-party systems, which pose operational risks to the Company. The Company may be adversely affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who maintain data relating to the Company&#8217;s customers that involve the theft of customer data, including the theft of customers&#8217; debit card, credit card, wire transfer and other identifying and/or access information used to make purchases or payments at such retailers and to other third parties. Despite third-party security risks that are beyond the Company&#8217;s control, the Company offers its customers protection against fraud and attendant losses for unauthorized use of debit and credit cards in order to stay competitive in the marketplace. Offering such protection to customers exposes the Company to significant expenses and potential losses related to reimbursing the Company&#8217;s customers for fraud losses, reissuing the compromised cards and increased monitoring for suspicious activity. If a data breach of considerable magnitude were to occur at one or more retailers, the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 

The Company&#8217;s risk management framework may not be effective in identifying, managing or mitigating risks and/or losses to it. 

The Company has implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage its risk exposure, which is reviewed and overseen by the Company&#8217;s Risk Committee. This framework consists of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which the Company is subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputation, fiduciary and general economic risks. The Company&#8217;s framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. In addition, under this framework, the Company has developed a risk appetite statement to detail its risk tolerance levels at an enterprise-wide level. This risk management framework may not be effective under all circumstances, and it may not adequately identify, manage or mitigate all or any risk or loss to the Company. If this framework is not effective, the Company may be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences and could suffer unexpected losses and its financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company is subject to risk arising from the failure or circumvention of internal controls and procedures. 

The Company&#8217;s internal controls, including fraud detection and controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls and procedures are met. Any failure or circumvention of controls and procedures; failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures; or failure to comply with corporate governance procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations, including subjecting us to litigation, regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. Furthermore, notwithstanding the proliferation of technology and technology-based risk and control systems, the Company&#8217;s business ultimately relies on people as its greatest resource, and the Company is subject to the risk that they make mistakes or engage in violations of applicable policies, laws, rules or procedures that in the past have not, and in the future may not always be prevented by the Company&#8217;s technological processes or by the controls and other procedures intended to prevent and detect such errors or violations. Human errors, malfeasance and other misconduct, even if promptly discovered and remediated, can result in reputational damage or legal risk and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks 

The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors&#8217; funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the Company&#8217;s shareholders. These regulations affect the Company&#8217;s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for 

possible changes. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, the Bank and their respective operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector during the several years prior to the implementation of such Act. Additional legislation and regulations or regulatory policies and other changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could significantly affect the Company&#8217;s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power could have a negative impact on the Company. Further, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. In some instances, directives issued to enforce such actions may be confidential and thus, in those instances, the Company would not be permitted to publicly disclose these actions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property. 

Banking and other financial services companies, such as the Company, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support their day-to-day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of the Company, the Company&#8217;s vendors, or other individuals or companies, have from time to time claimed to hold intellectual property sold to the Company by its vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. 

Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to the Company&#8217;s operations and distracting to management. If the Company were found to have infringed one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third-party. In certain cases, the Company may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company&#8217;s operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against the Company or settled, the Company could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. 

From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company&#8217;s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company&#8217;s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability, adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services and/or impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

&#160; 

Climate Change Risks 

Severe weather, natural disasters and other adverse external events could significantly impact the Company&#8217;s business and customers. 

Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Company&#8217;s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Furthermore, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. 

Climate change could have a material negative impact the Company and its customers 

The Company&#8217;s business, as well as the operations and activities of its customers, could be negatively impacted by climate change. Climate change presents both immediate and long-term risks to the Company and its customers and these risks are expected to increase over time. Climate changes presents multi-faceted risks, including (i) operational risk from the physical effects of climate events on the Company&#8217;s facilities and other assets as well as those of customers; (ii) credit risk from borrowers with significant exposure to climate risk; and (iii) reputational risk from stakeholder concerns about the Company&#8217;s practices related to climate change, the Company&#8217;s carbon footprint and the Company&#8217;s business relationships with customers who operate in carbon-intensive industries. The Company&#8217;s business, reputation and ability to attract and retain employees may also be harmed if its response to climate change is perceived to be ineffective or insufficient. 

Climate change exposes the Company to physical risk as its effects may lead to more frequent and more extreme weather events, such as prolonged droughts or flooding, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires and extreme seasonal weather; and longer-term shifts, such as increasing average temperatures, ozone depletion and rising sea levels. Such events and long-term shifts may damage, destroy or otherwise impact the value or productivity of the Company&#8217;s properties and other assets; reduce the availability of insurance; and/or disrupt the Company&#8217;s operations and other activities through prolonged outages. Such events and long-term shifts may also have a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s customers, which could amplify credit risk by diminishing borrowers&#8217; repayment capacity or collateral values, and other businesses counterparties of the Company, which could have a broader impact on the economy, supply chains and distribution networks. 

Climate change also exposes the Company to risks associated with the transition to a less carbon-dependent economy. These transition risks may result from changes in policies, laws and regulations, technologies, and/or market preferences to address climate change. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation, in addition to having a similar impact on the Company&#8217;s customers. The Company has customers who operate in carbon-intensive industries, like the oil and gas industry, that are exposed to climate risks, such as those risks related to the transition to a less carbon-dependent economy, as well as customers who operate in low-carbon industries that may be subject to risks associated with new technologies. 

Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders with respect to the Company&#8217;s environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on the Company or expose it to new or additional risks. 

Banking regulators and supervisory authorities, investors and other stakeholders have increasingly viewed financial institutions as important in helping to address the risks related to climate change both directly and with respect to their customers, which may result in financial institutions coming under increased pressure regarding the disclosure and management of their climate risks and related lending and investment activities. Given that climate change could impose systemic risks upon the financial sector, either via disruptions in economic activity resulting from the physical impacts of climate change or changes in policies as the economy transitions to a less carbon-intensive environment, the Company faces regulatory risk of increasing focus on its resilience to climate-related risks, including in the context of stress testing for various climate stress scenarios. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate risk management and practices may result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit and reputational risks and costs. 

COVID-19 Risks 

The lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to adversely affect the Company and its customers, associates and third-party service providers, with adverse impacts on the Company&#8217;s business, financial position, operations and prospects. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public health crisis that has resulted in unprecedented uncertainty, volatility and disruption in financial markets and in governmental, commercial and consumer activity in the United States and globally. Business and consumer customers of the Company continue to experience varying degrees of financial distress, which could adversely affect their ability to timely pay interest and principal on their loans and the value of the collateral securing their obligations, which could have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. 

General Risks 

Negative publicity could damage the Company&#8217;s reputation and business. 

Reputation risk, or the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company&#8217;s business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s ability to keep and attract customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from the Company&#8217;s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in 

response to that conduct. Negative public opinion could also result from adverse news or publicity that impairs the reputation of the financial services industry generally. 

Failure to compete effectively for customers could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s growth and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. These competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets where the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services functionally equivalent to those provided by banks. In addition, the emergence, adoption and evolution of new technologies that do not require intermediation, including distributed ledgers such as digital assets and blockchain, as well as advances in robotic process automation, could significantly affect the competition for financial services. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as &#8220;disintermediation,&#8221; could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Further, many of the Company&#8217;s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. Failure to compete effectively for deposit, loan and other banking customers in the Company&#8217;s market areas could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company&#8217;s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. 

From time to time, the Company may implement or acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company&#8217;s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Risks Associated with the Company&#8217;s Common Stock 

The Company&#8217;s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that a shareholder may favor. 

The Company&#8217;s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: 

&#8226; a Board of Directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered three-year terms; 

&#8226; a provision that any special meeting of the Company&#8217;s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board and chief executive officer, the president, a majority of the Board of Directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company&#8217;s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; and 

&#8226; a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders. 

The Company&#8217;s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the Board of Directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of the Company&#8217;s preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. 

&#160; 

There are restrictions on the Company&#8217;s ability to pay dividends. 

Holders of the Company&#8217;s common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Company has historically declared cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so and there can be no assurance that the Company will pay dividends in the future. Any declaration and payment of dividends on common stock will depend upon the Company&#8217;s earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, the Company&#8217;s ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the common stock and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. 

The Company&#8217;s principal source of funds to pay dividends on the shares of common stock is cash dividends that the Company receives from the Bank. Various banking laws applicable to the Bank limit the payment of dividends and other distributions by the Bank to the Company, and may therefore limit the Company&#8217;s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. 

&#160; 

There may be extreme fluctuations in the Company&#8217;s stock price. 

The trading price for the Company&#8217;s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors outside the Company&#8217;s control, including, among other things: 

&#8226; actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; 

&#8226; recommendations by securities analysts; 

&#8226; failure to meet analysts&#8217; revenue or earnings estimates; 

&#8226; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; 

&#8226; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; 

&#8226; perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; 

&#8226; new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; 

&#8226; cybersecurity breaches; 

&#8226; actions by institutional shareholders; 

&#8226; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; 

&#8226; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; 

&#8226; changes in government regulations; 

&#8226; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts, such as the war in Ukraine; 

&#8226; general market conditions, including real or anticipated changes in the strength of the Texas and Oklahoma economies; and 

&#8226; industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, oil price volatility or credit losses. 

