EXCHANGE --- The Hottest Club in Town Is... Run by Your Credit-Card Company? --- Card issuers hope new lounges -- not at the airport -- will win over big spenders    
New York -- When Christopher Remy's friends visit, he calls his credit-card concierge to book a table at one of the most exclusive lounges in the city.                              
Located in One Vanderbilt, the tallest building in Midtown Manhattan, American Express's 17,500-square-foot Centurion New York lounge boasts floor-to-ceiling windows that make the nearby Chrysler Building's stainless-steel spire feel like it's within arm's reach.                
"It's dimly lit, and it's got this Centurion logo on the floor in lights," said the 38-year-old financial-technology worker. "It feels really like you're going to something exclusive."     
Customers who pay $5,000 a year for the Centurion Card, better known as the Black Card, can walk into the lounge anytime. Everyone else needs a reservation. Platinum cardholders, like Remy, who pay $695 a year, can try to reserve a table through Amex's concierge service. Those without either card must call a phone number that only works two hours a day.                                 
The Centurion New York is the first permanent credit-card lounge outside an airport or event venue. It marks a new phase in a decadeslong competition among credit-card companies to win over big spenders with perks they market as luxurious and one-of-a-kind.                             
American Express was the first credit-card issuer to open an airport lounge more than 10 years ago, competing with airlines and prompting JPMorgan Chase and Capital One to race to catch up. 
"We wake up every day to think about how we can persuade a group of consumers to agree to take a platinum card and pay us a $695 annual fee," said Howard Grosfield, Amex's president of U.S. consumer services.                                                               
For more private spaces, such as the Centurion New York, social-media posts of people clinking glasses and relaxing on couches in front of sweeping views of the city offer a glimpse of the view from the top.
Amex said people under 35 years old accounted for more than half of newly opened consumer Platinum and Gold cards in 2023.                        
Companies rely on customers to brag on social media about their experiences, but showing off a place can threaten its exclusivity. Ian Johnston, who has a Platinum Amex, posted photos of his visit to the Centurion New York last year on Instagram. The slideshow of images, shared with more than 28,000 followers, featured his dinner and the lounge's views. Johnston, who travels a lot for his job as a TikTok program manager, said he worries the Centurion could meet the same fate as some airport lounges.
"I don't want to promote it too much because I don't want to wait in line," he said.