 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction therewith. 

Recent volatility in the banking sector, triggered by the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, may result in legislative initiatives, agency rulemaking activities, or changes in agency policies and priorities that could subject the Corporation and the Bank to enhanced government regulation and supervision. 

On March 10, 2023, SVB was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation. Two days later, on March 12, 2023, SBNY also failed. In each case, the FDIC was appointed as receiver. The FDIC, together with the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury Secretary, then took action under applicable emergency systemic risk authority to fully protect the depositors of each bank as the institutions were wound down. SVB and SBNY each had substantial business relationships with, and exposure to, entities within the innovation sector, including financial technology and digital asset companies, and had received an influx of deposits over the course of several years which coincided with the rapid growth of that sector. In recent periods, however, SVB and SBNY each began to experience significant deposit losses. These losses increased rapidly in early March, ultimately causing each institution to fail. 

Investor and customer confidence in the banking sector, particularly with regard to mid-size and larger regional banking organizations, waned in response to the failures of SVB and SBNY. Notably, the Corporation&#8217;s share price decreased by 22% during the month of March, consistent with other regional banking organizations. According to data published by the Federal Reserve, deposits at domestic commercial banks decreased by approximately $280 billion between the end of February 2023 and the week ended March 29, 2023. The Bank&#8217;s deposits decreased by $248 million during this period, which was a decrease of less than 1%. 

Congress and the federal banking agencies have begun to evaluate the events leading to the failures of SVB and SBNY to ascertain possible explanations for these developments. Preliminarily, legislators and the leadership of the federal banking agencies have posited varying theories, including, for example, inadequate prudential regulation of regional banking organizations (generally, institutions with less than $250 billion in total assets), insufficient supervision of such organizations, and a failure by the institutions themselves to properly manage risks, specifically including interest rate and liquidity risks in consideration of each institution&#8217;s business model, exposure to the innovation sector, and substantial uninsured deposit liabilities. 

Further evaluation of recent developments in the banking sector may lead to governmental initiatives intended to prevent future bank failures and stem significant deposit outflows from the banking sector, including (i) legislation aimed at preventing similar future bank runs and failures and stabilizing confidence in the banking sector over the long term, (ii) agency rulemaking to modify and enhance relevant regulatory requirements, specifically with respect to liquidity risk management, deposit concentrations, capital adequacy, stress testing and contingency planning, and safe and sound banking practices, and (iii) enhancement of the agencies&#8217; supervision and examination policies and priorities. More specifically, for instance, the federal banking agencies may modify the risk-based capital regulations to eliminate the ability of certain banks to elect to offset portions of their AOCI when calculating regulatory capital requirements. Alternatively, the treatment of AOCI under GAAP also could be modified, the effect of which may carry through to banks&#8217; capital management and regulatory compliance practices. The federal banking agencies may also re-evaluate applicable liquidity risk management standards, such as by reconsidering the mix of assets that are deemed to be &#8220;high-quality liquid assets&#8221; and/or how HQLA holdings and cash inflows and outflows are tabulated and weighted for liquidity management purposes. 

Although we cannot predict with certainty which initiatives may be pursued by lawmakers and agency leadership, nor can we predict the terms and scope of any such initiatives, any of the potential changes referenced above could, among other things, subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and limit our future growth, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

We may experience increases in FDIC insurance assessments. 

The losses incurred by the DIF in connection with the resolution of SVB and SBNY, which are estimated to amount to approximately $22.5 billion in the aggregate, are required by law to be recovered through one or more special assessments on depository institutions and, potentially, their holding companies (if the FDIC determines such action to be appropriate and the Secretary of the Treasury concurs). The FDIC must consider a variety of factors in determining the terms and applicability of any such special assessment, including, among others, the types of entities that benefit from the action taken by the agencies, economic conditions, and anticipated industry impacts. The FDIC has announced that it intends to publish a notice of proposed rulemaking for a special assessment in May 2023. It is also possible that our regular deposit insurance assessment rates will increase should the FDIC alter the assessment rate schedule or calculation methodology for all larger financial institutions (including the Bank) as a result of the recent bank failures. Although we cannot predict the specific timing and terms of any special assessment relating to the resolution of SVB and SBNY, or any other increase in our deposit insurance assessment rates, any increase in our assessment fees could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

The proportion of our deposit account balances that exceed FDIC insurance limits may expose the Bank to enhanced liquidity risk in times of financial distress. 

A significant factor in the failures of SVB and SBNY appears to have been the proportion of the deposits held by each institution that exceeded FDIC insurance limits. In response to the failures of SVB and SBNY, many large depositors across the industry have withdrawn deposits in excess of applicable deposit insurance limits and deposited these funds in other financial institutions and, in many instances, moved these funds into money market mutual funds or other similar securities accounts in an effort to diversify the risk of further bank failure(s). 

Uninsured deposits historically have been viewed by the FDIC as less stable than insured deposits. According to statements made by the FDIC staff and the leadership of the federal banking agencies, customers with larger uninsured deposit account balances often are small- and mid-sized businesses that rely upon deposit funds for payment of operational expenses and, as a result, are more likely to closely monitor the financial condition and performance of their depository institutions. As a result, in the event of financial distress, uninsured depositors historically have been more likely to withdraw their deposits. 

If a significant portion of our deposits were to be withdrawn within a short period of time such that additional sources of funding would be required to meet withdrawal demands, the Corporation may be unable to obtain funding at favorable terms, which may have an adverse effect on our net interest margin. Moreover, obtaining adequate funding to meet our deposit obligations may be more challenging during periods of elevated prevailing interest rates, such as the present period. Our ability to attract depositors during a time of actual or perceived distress or instability in the marketplace may be limited. Further, interest rates paid for borrowings generally exceed the interest rates paid on deposits. This spread may be exacerbated by higher prevailing interest rates. In addition, because our AFS investment securities lose value when interest rates rise, after-tax proceeds resulting from the sale of such assets may be diminished during periods when interest rates are elevated. Under such circumstances, we may be required to access funding from sources such as the Federal Reserve&#8217;s discount window or its recently established Bank Term Funding Program in order to manage our liquidity risk. See sections Deposits and Customer Funding and Liquidity of Part I, Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional disclosures and discussion pertaining to uninsured deposits and liquidity. 

Adverse changes to our credit ratings could limit our access to funding and increase our borrowing costs. 

Credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies&#8217; methodologies for our industry or certain security types; the rating agencies&#8217; assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies; our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; pending litigation and other contingencies; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital management practices; our corporate governance; current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives; and the agencies&#8217; views on whether the U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis. Rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings at any time, and there can be no assurance that they will maintain our ratings at current levels or that downgrades will not occur. 

A downgrade in our credit ratings could potentially adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to borrow or obtain funding, increase our cost of capital and/or limit our access to capital markets. Credit rating downgrades or negative watch warnings could also negatively impact our reputation and the perception of the Corporation by lenders, investors and other third parties, which could also impair our ability to compete in certain markets or engage in certain transactions. In particular, holders of deposits which exceed FDIC insurance limits may perceive such a downgrade or warning negatively and withdraw all or a portion of such deposits. While certain aspects of a credit rating downgrade are quantifiable, the impact it 

would have on our liquidity, business and results of operations in future periods is inherently uncertain and would depend on a number of interrelated factors, including, among other things, the magnitude of the downgrade, the rating relative to peers, the rating assigned by the relevant agency pre-downgrade, individual client behavior and future mitigating actions we might take. 

Our acceptance of brokered deposits for liquidity risk management purposes may expose the Bank to regulatory and commercial risks. 

Recently, we have increased the use of brokered CDs as an additional source of liquidity. Our acceptance of brokered deposits is subject to compliance with the requirements set forth under the FDI Act and the FDIC&#8217;s regulation implemented thereunder. Section 29 of the FDI Act and the FDIC&#8217;s brokered deposits regulation restrict the ability of a bank to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits unless the bank is &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the federal banking agencies&#8217; prompt corrective action framework, or unless the bank is &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; and obtains a waiver from the FDIC. The FDIC and the other federal banking agencies historically have viewed brokered deposits, compared to &#8220;core deposits,&#8221; as being at a greater risk of being withdrawn and placed on deposit at another institution in order to receive a higher interest rate, or based on other factors, thereby exposing institutions that accept significant volumes of brokered deposits to greater liquidity risk and, to the extent an institution increases its rates to compete for such deposits, risk of decreased interest rate spreads and net interest income. For additional information on the regulatory requirements related to brokered deposits, please refer to the Corporation&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, &#8220;Part I&#8212;Item 1. Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation&#8212;Brokered Deposits.&#8221; As of March 31, 2023, the Bank satisfied the capital requirements necessary to be deemed &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; If the Bank were to fail to be categorized as &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; we may be required to obtain a waiver from the FDIC to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit, or we may be prohibited from engaging in such activities altogether. Further, under such circumstances, the interest rates that we would be permitted to pay on deposits may be limited by regulation, and our deposit insurance assessment rates may be increased based upon the volume of the Bank&#8217;s brokered deposits relative to its total domestic deposits. Moreover, the terms of our agreements with third-party brokerage firms regarding the issuance and sale of brokered CDs could be adversely impacted by our failure to remain &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; and to comply with any regulatory requirements relating to those capital categories, and by other negative regulatory or rating agency actions. The occurrence of any of the above events may require us to seek alternative sources of funding to manage our liquidity risk from the expected withdrawals that will occur as issued CDs mature. 

The occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

