 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

During the first six months of 2020 , there have been no material changes to the risk factors in Part I &#8211; Item 1A &#8211; Risk Factors in the 2019 Form 10-K except as described below. The risk factor described below updates, and should be read together with, the risk factors disclosed in Part I &#8211; Item 1A &#8211; Risk Factors, in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The challenging economic environment triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and will continue to impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The COVID&#8209;19 pandemic has adversely impacted the economic environment, leading to lower interest rates across the curve and heightened volatility in the financial markets. These developments have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. Additionally, in March 2020, we experienced a significant increase in client cash balances held at our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, which caused our Tier 1 Leverage Ratio to decline into the buffer we maintain between our long-term operating objective and our regulatory requirement. This will limit our ability to return excess capital to stockholders, including through share repurchases, until the ratio returns to higher levels. Furthermore, many of our employees and those of our outsourced service providers are working remotely. Certain of our client service response and processing times have increased as a result of very high levels of client engagement, our employees working remotely, and the temporary loss of services from some of our outsourced service providers. Credit markets have been adversely impacted due to both uncertainty regarding the pandemic&#8217;s economic impact and the anticipation that high levels of unemployment will have a significant impact on retail credit and commercial real estate forbearances and delinquencies. We may experience higher levels of delinquencies on our portfolios of first mortgages and home equity lines of credit. We may also experience higher credit spreads in certain sectors within our portfolio of investment securities, especially those asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities with exposure to retail loans and commercial real estate. These and other impacts of the COVID&#8209;19 pandemic could have the effects of heightening many of the other risks described in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 incorporated by reference herein. The extent to which the COVID&#8209;19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, actions taken by governmental authorities to contain the financial and economic impact of the pandemic and the spread of COVID&#8209;19, further changes in credit quality and spreads, and reactions in the financial markets. 

- 64 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

