Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Performance Summary


BOK Financial Corporation (“the Company”) reported net income of $154.0 million or $2.19 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2020. Net income was $142.2 million or $2.00 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2019 and $64.7 million or $0.92 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2020. No provision for expected credit losses was necessary in the third quarter of 2020. The Company recorded a pre-tax provision for expected credit losses of $135.3 million in the second quarter of 2020. A pre-tax provision for incurred credit losses of $12.0 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2019.


Highlights of the third quarter of 2020 included:


•Net interest revenue totaled $271.8 million, a decrease of $7.3 million compared to the third quarter of 2019. Net interest margin was 2.81 percent for the third quarter of 2020 compared to 3.01 percent for the third quarter of 2019. Discount accretion on acquired loans totaled $13.3 million in the third quarter of 2020, $10.9 million in the third quarter of 2019 and $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2020. While the company has been proactive in reducing deposit costs and implementing LIBOR floors in loan agreements, recent interest rate cuts continue to compress the net interest margin. Average earning assets were $39.6 billion for the third quarter of 2020 compared to $37.7 billion for the third quarter of 2019. Net interest revenue decreased $6.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. Net interest margin decreased 2 basis points. Excluding discount accretion, net interest margin was 2.67 percent compared to 2.80 percent in the prior quarter.
•Fees and commissions revenue totaled $222.9 million, an increase of $36.7 million over the third quarter of 2019. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $25.7 million and mortgage banking revenue increased $21.8 million. Low mortgage interest rates drove increases in mortgage production and related U.S. agency mortgage-backed trading activity. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in deposit service charges and fiduciary and asset management revenue. We have voluntarily waived certain administration fees in the third quarter of 2020. Fees and commissions revenue increased $9.2 million over the second quarter of 2020, largely due to growth in trading revenue, customer hedging revenue and loan syndication activity. Deposit service charges also increased as many "Stay at Home" orders have been lifted and customer activity starts to return to more normal levels.
•Other operating expense totaled $301.3 million, a $22.0 million increase compared to the third quarter of 2019. Personnel expense increased $17.3 million, largely due to an increase in incentive compensation costs. This increase reflects the growth in our trading activity as well as changes related to vesting assumptions regarding the Company's earnings per share growth relative to a defined peer group. Non-personnel expense increased $4.7 million over the third quarter of 2019. Net losses and expenses of repossessed assets increased $4.5 million due to write-downs on two repossessed properties. Other increases in data processing and communications expense, deposit insurance expense, and professional fees were mostly offset by a decrease in business promotion expense. Operating expense increased $5.9 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. Personnel expense increased $3.6 million. Incentive compensation increased $5.6 million. Non-personnel expense increased $2.3 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. Increases in net losses and expenses on two repossessed properties, professional fees, and data processing and communications expense were partially offset by decreases in occupancy and equipment expense and other expenses. In addition, the second quarter of 2020 included a $3.0 million charitable contribution to the BOKF Foundation.
•Period-end outstanding loan balances totaled $23.8 billion at September 30, 2020, a decrease of $353 million compared to June 30, 2020, largely due to repayment of defensive draws taken earlier in the year and purposeful deleveraging by our customers. Average loan balances were relatively consistent with the prior quarter at $24.1 billion.
•The allowance for loan losses totaled $420 million or 1.76 percent of outstanding loans and 195 percent of nonaccruing loans at September 30, 2020, excluding residential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $448 million or 1.88 percent of outstanding loans at September 30, 2020. Excluding Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") loans, the allowance for loan losses was 1.93 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was 2.06 percent. Excluding PPP loans, the allowance for loan losses was $436 million or 1.97 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $469 million or 2.12 percent of outstanding loans at June 30, 2020.
- 1 -
________________




•Nonperforming assets not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies decreased $17 million compared to June 30, 2020. Potential problem loans decreased $2.9 million while other loans especially mentioned decreased $42 million. Net charge-offs were $22.4 million or 0.41 percent of average loans on an annualized basis for the third quarter of 2020, excluding PPP loans. Net charge-offs were 0.30 percent of average loans, excluding PPP loans, over the last four quarters. Net charge-offs were $14.1 million or 0.25 percent of average loans on an annualized basis for the second quarter of 2020, excluding PPP loans.
•Period-end deposits were $35.0 billion at September 30, 2020, a $1.1 billion increase compared to June 30, 2020. Interest-bearing transaction deposits increased $1.3 billion. Average deposits increased $2.0 billion, including a $1.7 billion increase in interest-bearing transaction deposits. Continued deposit growth was due primarily to customers retaining higher balances in the current economic environment.
•The common equity Tier 1 capital ratio at September 30, 2020 was 12.07 percent. Other regulatory capital ratios were Tier 1 capital ratio, 12.07 percent, total capital ratio, 14.05 percent, and leverage ratio, 8.39 percent. We have elected to implement relief afforded by the CARES Act, which allows us to defer a portion of the impact to regulatory capital resulting from our adoption of CECL over the next two years, followed by a phase out of that deferral over the following three years. At June 30, 2020, the common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.44 percent, the Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.44 percent, total capital ratio was 13.43 percent, and leverage ratio was 7.74 percent.
•The Company paid a regular cash dividend of $35.8 million or $0.51 per common share during the third quarter of 2020. On November 3, 2020, the board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.52 per common share payable on or about November 24, 2020 to shareholders of record as of November 16, 2020.
- 2 -
________________




Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates


The Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The Company's accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2019 Form 10-K. Management makes significant assumptions and estimates in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes in conformity with GAAP that may be highly subjective, complex and subject to variability. Actual results could differ significantly from these assumptions and estimates. The following discussion represents significant changes to critical accounting policies and estimates during 2020 in the most critical areas where these assumptions and estimates could affect the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. Significant changes to critical accounting policies and estimates have been discussed with the appropriate committees of the Board of Directors.


Allowance for Loan Losses and Accrual for Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk from Loan Commitments


The allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments represent the portion of amortized cost basis of loans and related unfunded commitments we do not expect to collect over the asset’s contractual life, considering past events, current conditions, as well as reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. Determining appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments requires management judgment about effects of uncertain matters, resulting in a subjective calculation which contains a certain amount of imprecision. Because of the subjective forward-looking nature of the calculation, changes in these measures may not directly correlate with actual economic events. In future periods, management judgment may consider new or changed information which may cause significant changes in these allowances in those future periods.


As of January 1, 2020 BOK Financial’s accounting policies have changed significantly with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Assets Measured at Amortized Cost ("ASU 2016-13" or "CECL"). Prior years are not restated. Prior to January 1, 2020, general allowances and nonspecific allowances were based on incurred credit losses. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the description of the expected credit losses calculation of the allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments.


For the majority of risk-graded loans, the accruing loan’s expected credit loss estimate is sensitive to management judgment, particularly probability of default and loss given default assumptions, changes in specific macroeconomic factor forecasts, the probability weight assigned to each economic scenario, and judgmental allocations for risks otherwise not captured in the calculation.


Probability of default and loss given default measurements are based on historical data that may not be a good predictor of future performance or actual losses. Probability of default is based on risk grades, a subjective measurement of the risk of a loan. This subjective assessment of risk may not reflect actual risk of loss.


Other subjective measures include the forecast for each relevant economic loss driver and the probability weighting of economic scenarios, both of which are overseen by a senior management committee with members independent of the allowance process. Determining appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments requires management judgment about effects of uncertain matters which may be reflected as industry or product judgmental allocations or nonspecific allowances. This results in a subjective calculation which is inherently imprecise.


Although the resulting expected credit loss estimate represents management’s best estimates at the time, actual credit losses will differ from management’s estimate. Portfolio composition will change over time, actual economic conditions will differ from probability-weighted assumptions, borrower-specific circumstances will change, as well as other factors. Differences between actual losses and management's estimates may materially affect the Company's results of operations.


Goodwill Impairment


Goodwill for each reporting unit is evaluated for impairment annually as of October 1st or more frequently if conditions indicate that impairment may have occurred. The evaluation of possible goodwill impairment involves significant judgment based upon short-term and long-term projections of future performance.


- 3 -
________________




During the evaluation for impairment, management qualitatively assesses whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units is less than their carrying value, including goodwill. Reporting unit carrying value includes sufficient capital to exceed regulatory requirements. This assessment includes consideration of relevant events and circumstances including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, the financial and stock performance of the Company and other relevant factors. Specifically, the analysis may include:


•General economic conditions including overall economic activity, consumer spending and mobility, unemployment rates, consumer confidence, and duration and severity of any current market moving instability.
•Global health concerns including ongoing pandemics or potential for widespread health issues, the future course of a pandemic and the potential for medical advances.
•Regional economic conditions including demand for oil and price stability of oil, other overarching conditions that may be affecting any of the Company's primary states such as weather or other catastrophes, pandemics and health related lockdowns, or other state mandates.
•Industry conditions including federal funds rate movement by the Federal Reserve, the interest rate environment and the resulting effect on net interest revenue and operating revenue, and regulatory mandates that hinder or provide relief to the financial services industry.
•Company specific conditions including current and forecasted income, changes in stock price, the Company's stock price compared to peers and other indexes, book value per share compared to fair value per share, goodwill compared to total shareholders' equity, current capital and liquidity position, demand for products and services, health of the loan portfolio and other credit related factors, and current credit ratings with the ratings agencies, and regulatory ratings.
•Reporting unit performance and forecasts including any event that may significantly impact a reporting unit.


If management concludes based on the qualitative assessment that goodwill may be impaired, a quantitative impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units. The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated by the discounted future earnings method. Goodwill is considered impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill.


Both the qualitative assessment and quantitative analysis require significant management judgment, including estimates of changes in future economic conditions and their underlying causes and duration, the reasonableness and effectiveness of management's responses to those changes, changes in governmental fiscal and monetary policies, and fair value measurements based largely on significant unobservable inputs. The results of these judgments may have a significant impact on the Company's reported results of operations.


- 4 -
________________




Results of Operations
Net Interest Revenue and Net Interest Margin


Net interest revenue is the interest earned on debt securities, loans and other interest-earning assets less interest paid for interest-bearing deposits and other borrowings. The net interest margin is calculated by dividing tax-equivalent net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets. Net interest spread is the difference between the average rate earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin is typically greater than net interest spread due to interest income earned on assets funded by non-interest bearing liabilities such as demand deposits and equity.


Tax-equivalent net interest revenue totaled $274.2 million for the third quarter of 2020 and $282.0 million in the third quarter of 2019. Net purchase accounting discount accretion was $13.3 million in the third quarter of 2020 and $10.9 million in the third quarter of 2019. Table 1 shows the effect on net interest revenue from changes in average balances and interest rates for various types of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.


Net interest margin was 2.81 percent for the third quarter of 2020, compared to 3.01 percent for the third quarter of 2019. Loan discount accretion added 14 basis points to net interest margin in the third quarter of 2020 and 12 basis points in the third quarter of 2019. Recent rate cuts in response to the economic environment resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic have compressed the net interest margin. While the company has been proactive in reducing deposit costs and implementing LIBOR floors in loan agreements to support the margin, the continued decline in average LIBOR during the third quarter reduced the yield on both floating-rate loans and securities. Principal cash flows received from maturities of the available-for-sale securities portfolio continue to be reinvested at lower rates. The tax-equivalent yield on earning assets was 3.04 percent, a decrease of 121 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2019. Loan yields decreased 152 basis points to 3.60 percent. This includes a 19 basis point benefit from PPP loan fees. The available for sale securities portfolio yield decreased 49 basis points to 2.11 percent and the yield on trading securities decreased 157 basis points to 1.92 percent. The yield on fair value option securities decreased 87 basis points to 1.92 percent.


Funding costs decreased 137 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2019. The cost of other borrowed funds decreased 200 basis points and the cost of interest-bearing deposits decreased 91 basis points. The benefit to net interest margin from earning assets funded by non-interest bearing liabilities was 8 basis points for the third quarter of 2020, a decrease of 36 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2019.
Average earning assets for the third quarter of 2020 increased $1.9 billion or 5 percent over the third quarter of 2019. The average balance of available for sale securities, which consists largely of residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, increased $1.8 billion. We purchase securities to supplement earnings and to manage interest rate risk. The majority of this increase occurred in the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020 in order to reduce our exposure to falling short-term interest rates. Average loans, net of allowance for loan losses, increased $1.5 billion, largely due to the inflow of Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") loans. Fair vale option securities decreased $1.2 billion. Receivables from unsettled securities sales, primarily related to our U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed trading operations, increased $2.8 billion. Growth in average earning assets and non-interest bearing receivables was primarily funded by an increase in average deposits.


Average deposits increased $8.9 billion compared to the third quarter of 2019. Deposit growth is largely due to the combination of focused deposit gathering initiatives, stimulus-related deposits, and customers retaining elevated balances in the current economic environment. Interest-bearing deposits increased $6.8 billion while demand deposit balances increased $2.2 billion.
Tax-equivalent net interest revenue decreased $6.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. Net purchase accounting discount accretion on acquired loans totaled $13.3 million in the third quarter of 2020 and $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2020. We perform an annual reassessment of the performance of certain pooled acquired loans during the third quarter. At September 30, 2020, unamortized loan purchase discount totaled $53 million, $29 million attributed to individual credits and $24 million attributed to loan pools. Amortization of loan purchase discount may be impacted by timing of early payoffs and loan size. PPP loan fee recognition contributed $11.3 million to net interest revenue in the third quarter of 2020 compared to $10.8 million in the prior quarter.
- 5 -
________________




Average earning assets decreased $681 million compared to the second quarter of 2020. Fair value option securities, held as an economic hedge of the changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, decreased $399 million and restricted equity securities decreased $130 million. Residential mortgage loans held for sale decreased $75 million while interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents decreased $67 million. Average loan balances remained largely unchanged. Available for sale securities increased $101 million. Average interest-bearing deposits grew by $1.5 billion, primarily due to interest-bearing transaction deposits. Funds purchased and repurchase agreements decreased $3.0 billion and other borrowings decreased $145 million.
Net interest margin was 2.81 percent compared to 2.83 percent in the second quarter of 2020. Excluding discount accretion on acquired loans, net interest margin was 2.67 percent compared to 2.80 percent in the prior quarter.
The yield on average earning assets was 3.04 percent, an 8 basis point decrease from the prior quarter. The yield on the available for sale securities portfolio decreased 18 basis points to 2.11 percent and the loan portfolio yield decreased 3 basis points to 3.60 percent. Excluding loan discount accretion, the yield on average earning assets was 2.91 percent, down 18 basis points and the loan portfolio yield was 3.38 percent, down 20 basis points from the previous quarter. The yield on fair value option securities decreased 8 basis points to 1.92 percent.
Funding costs were 0.31 percent, down 6 basis points. The cost of interest-bearing deposits decreased 8 basis points to 0.26 percent. The cost of other borrowed funds was down 1 basis point to 0.31 percent. The benefit to net interest margin from assets funded by non-interest liabilities was 8 basis points for the third quarter of 2020, consistent with the prior quarter.
Our overall objective is to manage the Company’s balance sheet to be relatively neutral to changes in interest rates as is further described in the Market Risk section of this report. Approximately 77% of our commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios are either variable rate or fixed rate that will reprice within one year. These loans are funded primarily by deposit accounts that are either non-interest bearing, or that reprice more slowly than the loans. The result is a balance sheet that would be asset sensitive, which means that assets generally reprice more quickly than liabilities. One of the strategies that we use to manage toward a relative rate-neutral position is to purchase fixed-rate residential mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by U.S. government agencies and fund them with market-rate-sensitive liabilities. The liability-sensitive nature of this strategy provides an offset to the asset-sensitive characteristics of our loan portfolio. We also may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk. 


The effectiveness of these strategies is reflected in the overall change in net interest revenue due to changes in interest rates as shown in Table 1 and in the interest rate sensitivity projections as shown in the Market Risk section of this report.


Fees and commissions revenue


Diversified sources of fees and commissions revenue are a significant part of our business strategy and represented 45 percent of total revenue for the third quarter of 2020, excluding provision for credit losses and gains and losses on other assets, securities and derivatives and the change in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights. We believe that a variety of fee revenue sources provides an offset to changes in interest rates, values in the equity markets, commodity prices and consumer spending, all of which can be volatile. As an example of this strength, many of the economic factors such as rising interest rates resulting in a decline in mortgage related trading activities and mortgage production volumes, may also increase net interest revenue or fiduciary and asset management revenue. We expect growth in other operating revenue to come through offering new products and services and by further development of our presence in other markets. However, current and future economic conditions, including the recent impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, regulatory constraints, increased competition and saturation in our existing markets could affect the rate of future increases.


Brokerage and Trading Revenue


Brokerage and trading revenue, which includes revenues from trading, customer hedging, retail brokerage and investment banking, increased $25.7 million or 59 percent compared to the third quarter of 2019.


- 8 -
________________




Trading revenue includes net realized and unrealized gains and losses primarily related to sales of residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies and related derivative instruments that enable our mortgage-banking customers to manage their market risk. Trading revenue also includes net realized and unrealized gains and losses on municipal securities, asset-backed securities and other financial instruments that we sell to institutional customers, along with changes in the fair value of financial instruments we hold as economic hedges against market risk of our trading securities. Trading revenue was $46.9 million for the third quarter of 2020, a $22.8 million or 95 percent increase compared to the third quarter of 2019. Industry-wide mortgage loan production has increased in 2020 driven by lower rates as the Federal Reserve stepped in to provide market stability. We increased our bond trading pipeline to provide greater liquidity to the housing market during a time of record loan production volumes.


Customer hedging revenue is based primarily on realized and unrealized changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for customer risk management programs. As more fully discussed under Customer Derivative Programs in Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, we offer commodity, interest rate, foreign exchange and equity derivatives to our customers. Customer hedging revenue totaled $8.6 million for the third quarter of 2020, a $4.0 million or 85 percent increase compared to the third quarter of 2019 as energy customers increased hedging activity in the volatile environment.
Brokerage and trading revenue increased $7.5 million compared to the previous quarter. Trading revenue grew $3.0 million. The low mortgage interest rate environment continues to drive our U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities trading activity. Customer hedging revenue also increased $2.4 million as energy customers increased hedging activities. Investment banking revenue also grew by $1.8 million largely due to loan syndication activity.


Fiduciary and Asset Management Revenue


Fiduciary and asset management revenue is earned through managing or holding of assets for customers and executing transactions or providing related services. Approximately 90 percent of fiduciary and asset management revenue is primarily based on the fair value of assets. Rates applied to asset values vary based on the nature of the relationship. Fiduciary relationships and managed asset relationships generally have higher fee rates than non-fiduciary and/or managed relationships. Fiduciary and asset management revenue decreased $3.7 million or 8 percent compared to the third quarter of 2019. The decrease is largely due to the decline in mutual fund fees combined with the addition of approximately $1.7 million in fee waivers as a result of the significant decline in interest rates. We have voluntarily waived certain administration fees in the third quarter of 2020 on the Cavanal Hill money market funds in order to maintain positive yields on these funds in the current low short-term interest rate environment. Fiduciary and asset management revenue decreased $1.3 million compared to the second quarter of 2020, primarily due to a decrease in seasonal tax preparation fees earned in the second quarter. A distribution of assets under management or administration and related fiduciary and asset management revenue follows:
Primary rates disclosed in Table 5 above represent rates generally available to borrowers on 30 year conforming mortgage loans.


Deposit Service Charges and Fees


Deposit service charges and fees decreased $4.6 million compared to the third quarter of 2019. During these uncertain times, we proactively waived certain fees. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in customers retaining cash and not maintaining the usual level of spending, which has decreased overdraft fees compared to the prior year. Deposit service charges increased $2.2 million compared to the second quarter. As many "Stay at Home" orders have been lifted and customer activity starts to return to normal, we have seen service charges increase.


As discussed in the Market Risk section following, the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") changes in response to changes in primary mortgage loan rates and other assumptions. We attempt to mitigate the earnings volatility caused by changes in the fair value of MSRs by designating certain financial instruments as an economic hedge. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are generally expected to partially offset changes in the fair value of MSRs. In the second quarter of 2020, we completed a sale of mortgage servicing rights on $1.6 billion of unpaid principal balance, primarily related to loans guaranteed by the Veteran's Administration. This sale was completed to reduce exposure to out of footprint MSRs with higher credit risk where no other relationships with the borrower exist. Interest rate movements between the date we established the transaction price and the closing date of the sale produced positive results in the second quarter.
Personnel expense


Personnel expense increased $17.3 million compared to the third quarter of 2019. Incentive compensation increased $18.6 million. Cash based incentive compensation increased $12.0 million, largely due to increased U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities and related derivative trading activity. Stock based compensation increased $5.3 million due to changes related to vesting assumptions regarding the Company's earnings per share growth relative to a defined peer group.
Personnel expense increased $3.6 million compared the second quarter of 2020. Stock based incentive compensation increased $5.9 million due to changes related to vesting assumptions regarding the Company's earnings per share growth relative to a defined peer group. Cash based incentive compensation increased $3.1 million, primarily due to increased trading activity. Deferred compensation, which is largely offset by a decrease in the value of related investments included in Other gains (losses), net, decreased $3.5 million. Regular compensation decreased $2.6 million, primarily related to unfilled positions due to attrition. We have managed personnel costs by challenging the need to fill open positions and add new positions.


- 13 -
________________




Non-personnel operating expense


Non-personnel operating expense increased $4.7 million over the third quarter of 2019. Net losses and expenses on repossessed assets increased $4.5 million due to write-downs on a set of oil and gas properties and a retail commercial real estate property. Data processing and communications expense increased $2.8 million, primarily due to investments in technology. Professional fees increased $1.8 million and insurance expense increased $1.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $6.2 million in business promotion expense, largely related to the pandemic.
Non-personnel expense increased $2.3 million over the second quarter of 2020. Net losses and expenses of repossessed assets increased $4.5 million, largely due to write-downs of two properties. Professional fees and services expense increased $1.9 million and data processing and communications expense increased $1.8 million. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased $2.6 million, primarily related to impairment charges incurred in the second quarter and other expense decreased $1.8 million. We also made a charitable contribution of $3.0 million to the BOKF Foundation in the second quarter.
Income Taxes


The effective tax rate was 24.7 percent for the third quarter of 2020, 18.6 percent for the third quarter of 2019 and 19.7 percent for the second quarter of 2020. An increase in forecasted pre-tax income for 2020 and the completion of 2019 tax returns drove the increase in effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2020. The effective tax rate excluding these items was 21.7 percent. 
Lines of Business


We operate three principal lines of business: Commercial Banking, Consumer Banking and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking includes lending, treasury and cash management services and customer risk management products for small businesses, middle market and larger commercial customers. Commercial Banking also includes the TransFund EFT network. Consumer Banking includes retail lending and deposit services, lending and deposit services to small business customers served through our consumer branch network and all mortgage banking activities. Wealth Management provides fiduciary services, private banking services, insurance and investment advisory services in all markets. Wealth Management also underwrites state and municipal securities and engages in brokerage and trading activities.


In addition to our lines of business, we have a Funds Management unit. The primary purpose of this unit is to manage our overall liquidity needs and interest rate risk. Each line of business borrows funds from and provides funds to the Funds Management unit as needed to support their operations. Operating results for Funds Management and other include the effect of interest rate risk positions and risk management activities, securities gains and losses including impairment charges, the provision for credit losses in excess of net loans charged off, tax planning strategies and certain executive compensation costs that are not attributed to the lines of business.


The operations of CoBiz were allocated to the operating segments in the second quarter of 2019. Prior to April 1, 2019, CoBiz operations were included in Funds Management and other.


We allocate resources and evaluate the performance of our lines of business using the net direct contribution, which includes the allocation of funds, actual net credit losses and capital costs. In addition, we measure the performance of our business lines after allocation of certain indirect expenses and taxes based on statutory rates.


The cost of funds borrowed from the Funds Management unit by the operating lines of business is transfer priced at rates that approximate market rates for funds with similar repricing and cash flow characteristics. Market rates are generally based on the applicable LIBOR or interest rate swap rates, adjusted for prepayment and liquidity risk. This method of transfer-pricing funds that supports assets of the operating lines of business tends to insulate them from interest rate risk.


The value of funds provided by the operating lines of business to the Funds Management unit is also based on rates that approximate wholesale market rates for funds with similar repricing and cash flow characteristics. Market rates are generally based on LIBOR or interest rate swap rates. The funds credit formula applied to deposit products with indeterminate maturities is established based on their repricing characteristics reflected in a combination of the short-term LIBOR rate and a moving average of an intermediate-term swap rate, with an appropriate spread applied to both. Shorter duration products are weighted towards the short-term LIBOR rate and longer duration products are weighted towards the intermediate-term swap rates. The expected duration ranges from 30 days for certain rate-sensitive deposits to five years.


- 14 -
________________




Economic capital is assigned to the business units by a capital allocation model that reflects management’s assessment of risk. This model assigns capital based upon credit, operating, interest rate and other market risk inherent in our business lines and recognizes the diversification benefits among the units. The level of assigned economic capital is a combination of the risk taken by each business line, based on its actual exposures and calibrated to its own loss history where possible. Average invested capital includes economic capital and amounts we have invested in the lines of business.


As shown in Table 8, net income attributable to our lines of business decreased $8.3 million compared to the third quarter of 2019. Net interest revenue decreased by $44.4 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreases in the short-term interest rate related to a 225 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate by the Federal Reserve since the middle of 2019. Net charge-offs increased $11.3 million compared to the third quarter of 2019. Other operating revenue increased by $41.8 million led by our brokerage and trading and mortgage banking businesses. Operating expense increased $9.1 million compared to the third quarter of 2019, largely due to increased incentive compensation related to trading activities.


Net interest revenue decreased $5.2 million compared to the second quarter of 2020, largely due to the effects of recent rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. Other operating revenue increased $9.2 million, led by an increase in brokerage and trading revenue. Other operating expense increased $7.1 million. Net income attributed to Funds Management and other was affected by the provision for expected credit losses in excess of net charge-offs of $121.2 million in the second quarter of 2020. The remaining increase in funds management in the third quarter of 2020 is due to a lower deposit funding credit to the lines of business caused by reductions in short-term interest rates.


Average deposits attributed to Commercial Banking were $15.4 billion for the third quarter of 2020, a $4.5 billion or 42 percent increase over the third quarter of 2019. Continued deposit growth is primarily due to higher balance retention by customers in the current economic environment. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital for further discussion of change.


Net interest revenue increased $4.8 million or 3 percent compared to the second quarter of 2020, including higher discount accretion. Fees and commissions revenue increased $3.6 million, led by an increase in customer energy hedging revenue and increased syndication activity. Operating expense increased $3.9 million or 6 percent compared to the second quarter of 2020, primarily due to incentive compensation costs and deposit insurance expense. Net losses and expenses of repossessed assets also increased $4.5 million due to impairment of a set of oil and gas properties and a retail commercial real estate property.


Average loan balances decreased $585 million or 3 percent and average customer deposits increased $776 million or 5 percent over the second quarter of 2020.


Consumer Banking


Consumer Banking provides retail banking services through four primary distribution channels: traditional branches, the 24-hour ExpressBank call center, Internet banking and mobile banking. Consumer Banking also conducts mortgage banking activities through offices located outside of our Consumer Banking markets.


Consumer Banking contributed $26.3 million to consolidated net income for the third quarter of 2020, an increase of $9.6 million over the third quarter of 2019. Improved performance by Consumer Banking was largely due to the effect of lower mortgage interest rates, which has increased mortgage banking activity and related revenue.


Fees and commissions revenue increased $16.5 million or 32 percent over the third quarter of 2019. Lower mortgage interest rates increased mortgage loan origination volumes. Mortgage production volume increased $134 million or 15 percent and gain on sale margin increased 216 basis points due to industry-wide capacity constraints. Deposit service charges decreased $4.9 million. During these uncertain times, we proactively waived certain fees. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in customers retaining cash and not maintaining the usual level of spending, which has decreased overdraft fees compared to the prior year. Operating expense was relatively consistent with the third quarter of 2019. Increases in occupancy and equipment expense and mortgage banking costs were offset by a decrease in business promotion expense. Corporate expense allocations were $964 thousand or 8 percent lower than the prior year.


Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedges, increased pre-tax net income for the third quarter of 2020 by $5.0 million compared to a $4.3 million decrease in pre-tax net income in the third quarter of 2019.


Net interest revenue from Consumer Banking activities decreased $6.1 million or 16 percent compared to the second quarter of 2020, largely due to lower yields on deposits sold to our Funds Management unit and compressed loan spreads. Operating revenue was relatively consistent with the second quarter of 2020. An increase in deposit service charges was mostly offset by a decrease in mortgage servicing revenue. Operating expenses were also largely unchanged compared to the previous quarter.


Average consumer loans increased $147 million or 9 percent. Average deposits increased $354 million or 5 percent.
Fees and commissions revenue increased $22.2 million or 25 percent over the third quarter of 2019. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $21.6 million due to increased trading activity as a result of lower mortgage interest rates. We increased our trading pipeline for U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities to provide greater liquidity to the housing market during a time of record volumes. Average trading assets, which includes trading securities inventory and receivables from unsettled securities sales, were $6.2 billion for the third quarter of 2020 compared to $3.4 billion for the third quarter of 2019. Fiduciary and asset management revenue decreased $3.7 million related to a combination of lower mutual fund fees and waived fees. Operating expense increased $11.2 million or 16 percent compared to the third quarter of 2019, primarily related to incentive compensation expense on higher trading activity. Corporate expense allocations were relatively consistent compared to the prior year.


Net income for Wealth Management decreased $2.2 million or 7 percent compared to the second quarter of 2020.


Net interest revenue decreased $3.9 million due to lower yields on trading securities and deposits sold to our Funds Management unit. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $4.0 million. Increases in trading revenue of $3.0 million and other revenue of $2.3 million were partially offset by a decrease in fiduciary and asset management revenue. We continue to maintain an increased trading pipeline to provide greater liquidity to the housing market during this time of low interest rates.


Average loans maintained at $1.8 billion and average deposits increased $704 million or 8 percent to $9.1 billion.
Financial Condition
Securities


We maintain a securities portfolio to enhance profitability, manage interest rate risk, provide liquidity and comply with regulatory requirements. Securities are classified as trading, held for investment, or available for sale. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the composition of the securities portfolio as of September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019.


We hold an inventory of trading securities in support of sales to a variety of customers, including banks, corporations, insurance companies, money managers and others. Trading securities increased $1.0 billion to $2.2 billion during the third quarter of 2020. As discussed in the Market Risk section of this report, trading activities involve risk of loss from adverse price movement. We mitigate this risk within board-approved limits through the use of derivative contracts, short-sales and other techniques. These limits remain relatively unchanged from levels set before our expanded trading activities.


At September 30, 2020, the carrying value of investment (held-to-maturity) securities was $256 million, including a $739 thousand allowance for expected credit losses compared to $268 million at June 30, 2020 with a $1.6 million allowance for expected credit losses. The fair value of investment securities was $285 million at September 30, 2020 and $296 million at June 30, 2020. Investment securities consist primarily of residential mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government agencies, long-term, fixed rate Oklahoma and Texas municipal bonds, and taxable Texas school construction bonds.


Available for sale securities, which may be sold prior to maturity, are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses, net of deferred taxes, are recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. The amortized cost of available for sale securities totaled $12.3 billion at September 30, 2020, a $348 million increase compared to June 30, 2020. At September 30, 2020, the available for sale securities portfolio consisted primarily of U.S. government agency residential mortgage-backed securities and U.S. government agency commercial mortgage-backed securities. Both residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities have credit risk from delinquency or default of the underlying loans. We mitigate this risk by primarily investing in securities issued by U.S. government agencies. Principal and interest payments on the underlying loans are fully guaranteed. Commercial mortgage-backed securities have prepayment penalties similar to commercial loans.


A primary risk of holding residential mortgage-backed securities comes from extension during periods of rising interest rates or prepayment during periods of falling interest rates. We evaluate this risk through extensive modeling of risk both before making an investment and throughout the life of the security. Our best estimate of the duration of the combined residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio held in investment and available for sale securities at September 30, 2020 is 2.3 years. Management estimates the duration extends to 3.8 years assuming an immediate 200 basis point upward shock. The estimated duration contracts to 2.1 years assuming a 100 basis point decline in the current low rate environment.
Commercial


Commercial loans represent loans for working capital, facilities acquisition or expansion, purchases of equipment and other needs of commercial customers primarily located within our geographical footprint. These loans are underwritten individually and represent ongoing relationships based on a thorough knowledge of the customer, the customer’s industry and market. While commercial loans are generally secured by the customer’s assets including real property, inventory, accounts receivable, operating equipment, interests in mineral rights and other property and may also include personal guarantees of the owners and related parties, the primary source of repayment of the loans is the ongoing cash flow from operations of the customer’s business. In addition, revolving lines of credit are generally governed by a borrowing base. Inherent lending risks are centrally monitored on a continuous basis from underwriting throughout the life of the loan for compliance with commercial lending policies.


Commercial loans totaled $13.6 billion or 57 percent of the loan portfolio at September 30, 2020, a $593 million decrease compared to June 30, 2020, primarily due to continued paydowns in the third quarter.


Approximately 78 percent of loans in this segment are located within our geographic footprint, based on collateral location. Loans for which the collateral location is less relevant, such as unsecured loans and reserve-based energy loans are categorized by the borrower's primary operating location. The largest concentration of loans in this segment outside of our footprint is California, totaling 4 percent of the segment.


Supporting the energy industry with loans to producers and other energy-related entities has been a hallmark of the Company since its founding and represents a large portion of our commercial loan portfolio. In addition, energy production and related industries have a significant impact on the economy in our primary markets. Loans collateralized by oil and gas properties are subject to a semi-annual engineering review by our internal staff of petroleum engineers. This review is used as the basis for developing the expected cash flows supporting the loan amount. The projected cash flows are discounted according to risk characteristics of the underlying oil and gas properties. Loans are evaluated to demonstrate with reasonable certainty that crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can be recovered from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions at current pricing levels and with existing conventional equipment and operating methods and costs. As part of our evaluation of credit quality, we analyze rigorous stress tests over a range of commodity prices and take proactive steps to mitigate risk when appropriate.


Outstanding energy loans totaled $3.7 billion or 16 percent of total loans at September 30, 2020, a $257 million decrease compared to June 30, 2020. Approximately $2.8 billion of energy loans were to oil and gas producers, down $236 million compared to June 30, 2020. The majority of this portfolio is first lien, senior secured, reserve-based lending, which we believe is the lowest risk form of energy lending. Approximately 67 percent of the committed production loans are secured by properties primarily producing oil and 33 percent of the committed production loans are secured by properties primarily producing natural gas.


Loans to midstream oil and gas companies totaled $711 million at September 30, 2020, up $23 million over June 30, 2020. Loans to borrowers that provide services to the energy industry totaled $113 million at September 30, 2020, down $29 million. Loans to other energy borrowers, including those engaged in wholesale or retail energy sales, totaled $48 million, a $15 million decrease compared to the prior quarter.


Unfunded energy loan commitments were $2.3 billion at September 30, 2020, a $214 million decrease compared to June 30, 2020, and a $660 million decrease compared to December 31, 2019, largely as a result of the semi-annual borrowing base redetermination process in the second quarter.


The healthcare sector of the loan portfolio totaled $3.3 billion or 14 percent of total loans. Healthcare loans increased $36 million over June 30, 2020, primarily due to growth in loans to senior housing and care facilities. Healthcare sector loans consist primarily of loans for the development and operation of senior housing and care facilities, including independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing. Generally we loan to borrowers with a portfolio of multiple facilities that serves to help diversify risks specific to a single facility. Healthcare also includes loans to hospitals and other medical service providers impacted by a deferral of elective procedures. The CARES Act includes multiple revenue enhancement measures for both hospitals and skilled nursing facilities as they manage through the risks of the virus.
The services sector of the loan portfolio decreased $234 million to $3.5 billion or 15 percent of total loans. Service sector loans consist of a large number of loans to a variety of businesses, including Native American tribal and state and local governments, Native American tribal casino operations, educational services, foundations and not-for-profit organizations and specialty trade contractors. Approximately $1.9 billion of the services category is made up of loans with individual balances of less than $10 million. Services sector loans are generally secured by the assets of the borrower with repayment coming from the cash flows of ongoing operations of the customer’s business. 


General business loans decreased $138 million to $3.0 billion or 13 percent of total loans. General business loans primarily consist of $1.7 billion of wholesale/retail loans and $748 million of loans from other commercial industries.


Our services and general business loans include areas we consider to be more exposed to the economic slowdown as a result of the social distancing measures in place to combat the COVID-19 pandemic such as entertainment and recreation, retail, hotels, churches, airline travel, and higher education that are dependent on large social gatherings to remain profitable. This represents less than 7 percent of our total portfolio. Some of these borrowers have participated in the PPP, which has provided some measure of relief. We will continue to monitor these areas closely in the coming months.
We participate in shared national credits when appropriate to obtain or maintain business relationships with local customers. Shared national credits are defined by banking regulators as credits of more than $100 million and with three or more non-affiliated banks as participants. At September 30, 2020, the outstanding principal balance of these loans totaled $4.2 billion, including $1.9 billion of energy loans. Substantially all of these loans are to borrowers with local market relationships. We serve as the agent lender in approximately 19 percent of our shared national credits, based on dollars committed. We hold shared national credits to the same standard of analysis and perform the same level of review as internally originated credits. Our lending policies generally avoid loans in which we do not have the opportunity to maintain or achieve other business relationships with the customer. In addition to management’s quarterly assessment of credit risk, banking regulators annually review a sample of shared national credits for proper risk grading.


Commercial Real Estate


Commercial real estate represents loans for the construction of buildings or other improvements to real estate and property held by borrowers for investment purposes generally within our geographical footprint. We require collateral values in excess of the loan amounts, demonstrated cash flows in excess of expected debt service requirements, equity investment in the project and a portion of the project already sold, leased or permanent financing already secured. The expected cash flows from all significant new or renewed income producing property commitments are stress tested to reflect the risks in varying interest rates, vacancy rates and rental rates. As with commercial loans, inherent lending risks are centrally monitored on a continuous basis from underwriting throughout the life of the loan for compliance with applicable lending policies.


The commercial real estate loan balance as a percentage of our total loan portfolio has ranged from 19 percent to 22 percent over the past five years. The outstanding balance of commercial real estate loans increased $140 million over June 30, 2020. Continued friction in the permanent financing market continued to constrain paydown activity. Loans secured by office buildings increased $126 million to $1.1 billion. Loans secured by industrial facilities increased $69 million. Loans secured by other commercial real estate properties decreased $26 million to $507 million. Multifamily residential loans, our largest exposure in commercial real estate, decreased $20 million to $1.4 billion at September 30, 2020. Loans secured by retail facilities were $786 million at September 30, 2020, largely unchanged from the prior quarter.


Approximately 68 percent of loans in this segment are in our geographic footprint based on collateral location. The largest concentration of loans in this segment outside our footprint is Utah, totaling 8 percent of the segment, followed by California at 6 percent. All other states represent less than 5 percent individually.


Loans secured by retail facilities and office buildings may be adversely impacted by measures being taken to hinder the spread of the virus as well as changes in consumer behavior.
Payment Protection Program
We are actively participating in programs initiated by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act"), including the Small Business Administration's ("SBA") Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") that began on April 3, 2020. PPP provided fully forgivable loans when utilized for qualified expenditures, including to help small business maintain payrolls during the COVID-19 pandemic. These loans have a contractual term of two years, though most are expected to be forgiven prior to maturity after completion of a compliance period. Loans are guaranteed and amounts forgiven will be reimbursed to the Company by the SBA. The loans carry a rate of 1 percent. Interest plus loan fees, which vary depending on loan size, are accrued over the contractual life of the loan. Any unaccreted origination fees will be recognized when the loan is paid.
Loans to Individuals


Loans to individuals include residential mortgage and personal loans. Residential mortgage loans provide funds for our customers to purchase or refinance their primary residence or to borrow against the equity in their home. These loans are secured by a first or second mortgage on the customer's primary residence. These loans are made in accordance with underwriting policies we believe to be conservative and are fully documented. Loans may be individually underwritten or credit scored based on size and other criteria. Credit scoring is assessed based on significant credit characteristics including credit history, residential and employment stability.


In general, we sell the majority of our conforming fixed rate loan originations in the secondary market and retain the majority of our non-conforming and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan portfolio does not include payment option adjustable rate mortgage loans or adjustable rate mortgage loans with initial rates that are below market. Home equity loans are primarily first-lien and fully amortizing.
Residential mortgage, which includes home equity loans, and personal loans are made in accordance with underwriting policies we believe to be conservative and are fully documented. Loans may be individually underwritten or credit scored based on size and other criteria. Credit scoring is assessed based on significant credit characteristics including credit history, residential and employment stability.


Personal loans consist primarily of loans to Wealth Management clients secured by the cash surrender value of insurance policies and marketable securities. It also includes direct loans secured by and for the purchase of automobiles, recreational and marine equipment as well as unsecured loans.


Approximately 92 percent of the loans in this segment are secured by collateral located within our geographical footprint. Loans for which the collateral location is less relevant, such as unsecured loans are categorized by the borrower’s primary operating location.


Residential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies have limited credit exposure because of the agency guarantee. This amount includes residential mortgage loans previously sold into GNMA mortgage pools that the Company may repurchase when certain defined delinquency criteria are met. Because of this repurchase right, the Company is deemed to have regained effective control over these loans and must include them on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.


The Company secondarily evaluates loan portfolio performance based on the primary geographical market managing the loan. Loans attributed to a geographical market may not represent the location of the borrower or the collateral. All permanent mortgage loans serviced by our mortgage banking unit and held for investment by the Company are centrally managed by the Oklahoma market.


Off-Balance Sheet Commitments


We enter into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal course of business as shown in Table 14. Loan commitments may be unconditional obligations to provide financing or conditional obligations that depend on the borrower’s financial condition, collateral value or other factors. Standby letters of credit are unconditional commitments to guarantee the performance of our customer to a third party. Since some of these commitments are expected to expire before being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.


We have off-balance sheet commitments related to certain residential mortgage loans sold into mortgage-backed securities as part of our mortgage banking activities. We retain off-balance sheet credit risk related to losses in excess of amounts guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs ("VA"). During the second quarter, we sold mortgage servicing rights related to residential mortgage loans primarily guaranteed by the VA with an unpaid principal balance of $1.6 billion.


We also have off-balance sheet credit risk related to certain residential mortgage loans primarily originated under community development loan programs that were sold to a U.S. government agency with full recourse prior to 2007. We are obligated to repurchase these loans for the life of these loans in the event of foreclosure for the unpaid principal and interest at the time of foreclosure. The majority of our conforming fixed rate loan originations are sold in the secondary market and we only retain repurchase obligations under standard underwriting representations and warranties.


The CARES Act provided protections for borrowers with agency-backed residential mortgages that are serviced by the Company. Forbearance must be granted upon receiving a request from a borrower and the borrower's attestation to a financial hardship associated with the COVID-19 emergency. The Bank is required to offer up to a 6 month forbearance, with the possibility of an additional 6 month extension. This program was available to all current and delinquent borrowers, including those in bankruptcy and/or foreclosure. As of September 30, 2020, agency-serviced loans in forbearance included 3,436 borrowers with an unpaid principal balance of $567 million. For certain contracts, we must advance principal and interest payments during the forbearance period. Advances as of September 30, 2020 totaled $5.8 million. Advances are generally reimbursed to us by the appropriate agencies. Loans in forbearance are considered delinquent when payments are not made for purposes of valuing mortgage servicing rights and for purposes of determining GNMA loans that are eligible to be repurchased. As of September 30, 2020, 25 percent of borrowers in forbearance remained current.


Customer Derivative Programs
 
We offer programs that permit our customers to hedge various risks, including fluctuations in energy, cattle and other agricultural product prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Each of these programs work essentially the same way. Derivative contracts are executed between the customers and the Company. Offsetting contracts are executed between the Company and selected counterparties to minimize market risk due to changes in commodity prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates. The counterparty contracts are identical to the customer contracts, except for a fixed pricing spread or a fee paid to us as compensation for administrative costs, credit risk and profit.


The customer derivative programs create credit risk for potential amounts due to the Company from our customers and from the counterparties. Customer credit risk is monitored through existing credit policies and procedures. The effects of changes in commodity prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates are evaluated across a range of possible scenarios to determine the maximum exposure we are willing to have individually to any customer. Customers may also be required to provide cash margin or other collateral in conjunction with our credit agreements to further limit our credit risk.
Counterparty credit risk is evaluated through existing policies and procedures. This evaluation considers the total relationship between BOK Financial and each of the counterparties. Individual limits are established by management, approved by Credit Administration and reviewed by the Asset/Liability Committee. Margin collateral is required if the exposure between the Company and any counterparty exceeds established limits. Based on declines in the counterparties’ credit ratings, these limits may be reduced and additional margin collateral may be required.


A deterioration of the credit standing of one or more of the customers or counterparties to these contracts may result in BOK Financial recognizing a loss as the fair value of the affected contracts may no longer move in tandem with the offsetting contracts. This occurs if the credit standing of the customer or counterparty deteriorated such that either the fair value of underlying collateral no longer supported the contract or the customer or the counterparty’s ability to provide margin collateral was impaired. Credit losses on customer derivatives reduce brokerage and trading revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.


Derivative contracts are carried at fair value. At September 30, 2020, the net fair values of derivative contracts, before consideration of cash margin, reported as assets under these programs totaled $615 million compared to $658 million at June 30, 2020. At September 30, 2020, the net fair value of our derivative contracts included $309 million for foreign exchange contracts, $171 million for energy contracts and $132 million for interest rate swaps. The aggregate net fair value of derivative contracts, before consideration of cash margin, held under these programs reported as liabilities totaled $589 million at September 30, 2020 and $620 million at June 30, 2020.


At September 30, 2020, total derivative assets were reduced by $93 million of cash collateral received from counterparties and total derivative liabilities were reduced by $160 million of cash collateral paid to counterparties related to instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement.


A table showing the notional and fair value of derivative assets and liabilities on both a gross and net basis is presented in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


The fair value of derivative contracts reported as assets under these programs, net of cash margin held by the Company, by category of debtor at September 30, 2020 follows in Table 15.


At September 30, 2020, our largest derivative exposure was to a borrower for an interest rate swap of $12 million.


Our customer derivative program also introduces liquidity and capital risk. We are required to provide cash margin to certain counterparties when the net negative fair value of the contracts exceeds established limits. Also, changes in commodity prices affect the amount of regulatory capital we are required to hold as support for the fair value of our derivative assets. These risks are modeled as part of the management of these programs. Based on current prices, a decrease in market prices equivalent to $25.91 per barrel of oil would not be great enough to create a scenario in which we are owed by our customers. This is due to the price of oil being within the weighted average fixed price of the portfolio. Rather, we would be owed by the counterparties, however, due to our margining status with counterparties, one would not see any impact here. An increase in prices equivalent to $52.67 per barrel of oil would increase the fair value of derivative assets by $347 million as margin received falls faster than the asset values. Further increases in price to the equivalent of $71.23 per barrel of oil would increase the fair value of our derivative assets by $831 million with lending customers comprising the bulk of     the assets. Liquidity requirements of this program may also be affected by our credit rating. At September 30, 2020, a decrease in our credit rating to below investment grade would increase our obligation to post cash margin on existing contracts by approximately $10 million. The fair value of our to-be-announced residential mortgage-backed securities and interest rate swap derivative contracts is affected by changes in interest rates. Based on our assessment as of September 30, 2020, changes in interest rates would not materially impact regulatory capital or liquidity needed to support this portion of our customer derivative program.
The Company adopted FASB Accounting Standard Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Assets Measured at Amortized Cost ("CECL") on January 1, 2020 through a pre-tax cumulative-effect adjustment to equity of $61.4 million. CECL requires recognition of expected credit losses on assets carried at amortized cost over their expected lives. The previous incurred loss model incorporated only known information as of the balance sheet date. Prior years reported under the incurred loss model have not been restated. CECL uses models to measure the probability of default and loss given default over a 12-month reasonable and supportable forecast period. Models incorporate base case, downside and upside macroeconomic variables such as real gross domestic product ("GDP") growth, civilian unemployment rate and West Texas Intermediate ("WTI") oil prices on a probability weighted basis. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of methodology of allowance for loan losses.
No provision for credit losses was necessary for the third quarter of 2020. A $1.7 million provision related to lending activities was offset by a decrease in the accrual for expected credit losses from mortgage banking activities and allowance for credit losses from investment securities. Changes in our reasonable and supportable forecasts of macroeconomic variables, primarily due to an improved economic outlook related to the anticipated impact of the on-going COVID-19 pandemic, and other assumptions, resulted in a $12.8 million decrease in the provision for credit losses from lending activities. Changes in the loan portfolio characteristics, including specific impairment and losses, loan balances and risk grading resulted in a $14.5 million increase in the provision for credit losses from lending activities.
Net charge-offs and changes in specific impairments attributed to certain credits required a $17.8 million provision during the third quarter. This provision was partially offset by a change in risk grading and outstanding loan balances to measure the provision for credit losses related to changes in loan portfolio characteristics. A summary of outstanding loan balances by risk grade is included in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non-pass grade loans include other loans especially mentioned, defined by regulatory guidelines as loans that are currently performing in compliance with original terms but may have a potential weakness that deserves management’s close attention, accruing substandard loans, and nonaccruing loans. Non-pass grade loans totaled $1.5 billion at September 30, a $79 million decrease from June 30. Non-pass graded energy loans totaled $1.0 billion at September 30, a $99 million decrease from June 30.


Although fiscal stimulus through PPP, SBA support and other CARES Act programs have had a positive impact on credit quality, we received a number of deferral or forbearance requests early in the second quarter of 2020. All requests were evaluated on a case-by-case basis and all loans greater than $1 million that requested forbearance were reviewed for proper grading. At the peak, deferral request totaled $1.6 billion or 8 percent of total loans. More than 80 percent of loans have since returned to regular payment status. At September 30, 2020, $264 million or 1 percent of loans remain in deferral status, including $99 million or 1 percent of commercial loans, primarily small business and healthcare loans; $123 million or 3 percent of commercial real estate loans and $42 million or 1 percent of personal loans.


The allowance for loan losses totaled $420 million or 1.76 percent of outstanding loans and 195 percent of nonaccruing loans at September 30, 2020, excluding residential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $448 million or 1.88 percent of outstanding loans and 208 percent of nonaccruing loans at September 30, 2020. Excluding PPP loans, the allowance for loan losses was 1.93 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was 2.06 percent.


The allowance for credit losses attributed to energy was 4.30 percent of outstanding energy loans at September 30. Our semi-annual borrowing base redeterminations during the second quarter of 2020 were based on forward pricing curves that existed at that time, which resulted in credit quality migration. While forward prices subsequently improved, the pricing environment remains fragile and tied to the continued economic recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe the duration of the downturn is a more significant factor affecting performance than the level of prices.


We also conduct quarterly stress tests of our energy borrowers with more than 50 percent funding on their lines of credit and all non-pass graded loans using a current price deck discounted at 20 percent. This stress test helps us identify potential issues, although the most recent test corroborated the risk grading of energy borrowers evaluated once hedging was taken into consideration. Of all the energy customers that we stress test, which makes up 96 percent of production loans outstanding, 93 percent of our customers have some level of hedging in the 12-month range and many of them carry into the 24-month range.


The company recorded a $135.3 million provision for credit losses in the second quarter of 2020. The allowance for loan losses was $436 million or 1.80 percent of outstanding loans and 175 percent of nonaccruing loans, excluding loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies at June 30, 2020. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $469 million or 1.94 percent of outstanding loans and 188 percent of core nonaccruing loans. Excluding PPP loans, the allowance for loan losses was 1.97 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was 2.12 percent.


Net Loans Charged Off


Net charge-offs of commercial loans were $22.3 million in the third quarter of 2020, primarily related to a single energy production borrower and a single commercial service sector borrower. Net commercial real estate loan charge-offs were $299 thousand and net recoveries of loans to individuals were $123 thousand. Net charge-offs of loans to individuals include deposit account overdraft losses.


Accrual for Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk Associated with Mortgage Banking Activities


The accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk associated with mortgage banking activities includes consideration of credit risk related to certain residential mortgage loans sold into mortgage-backed securities in excess of amounts guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs ("VA") and mortgage loans originated under community development loan programs that were sold to a U.S. government agency with full recourse.


- 32 -
________________




We use publicly available long-term national data to estimate total loss given default for our off-balance sheet credit risk related to losses in excess of amounts guaranteed by the VA. This result is combined with probability of default output from our mortgage servicing rights model to estimate total expected loss. Then, we estimate the VA's guarantee percentage to determine our portion of the credit risk. Qualitative adjustment may be used, if necessary.


Allowance for Credit Losses Related to Held-to-Maturity (Investment) Securities


The expected credit losses principles apply to all financial assets measured at cost, including our held-to-maturity (investment) debt securities portfolio. Our investment portfolio includes municipal and other tax-exempt securities and other debt securities. Expected credit losses for these assets is based on probability of default and loss given default assumptions that align with similarly graded loans. Qualitative adjustment may be used, if necessary.
- 33 -
________________




Nonperforming Assets


As more fully described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, loans are generally classified as nonaccruing when it becomes probable that we will not collect the full contractual principal and interest. Accruing renegotiated loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies represent residential mortgage loans that have been modified in troubled debt restructurings. Interest continues to accrue based on the modified terms of the loan and loans may be sold once they become eligible according to U.S. government agency guidelines. Real estate and other repossessed assets are assets acquired in partial or total forgiveness of loans. The assets are carried at the lower of cost as determined by fair value at the date of foreclosure or current fair value, less estimated selling costs. A summary of nonperforming assets follows in Table 17:
Excluding assets guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, nonperforming assets decreased $17 million from June 30, 2020, primarily due to a $36 million decrease in nonaccruing energy loans, partially offset by a $4.8 million increase in nonaccruing services loans and an $18 million increase in real estate and other repossessed assets. Newly identified nonaccruing loans totaled $50 million, partially offset by $35 million of payments, $27 million of charge-offs and $23 million of foreclosures. The Company generally retains nonperforming assets to maximize potential recovery, which may cause future nonperforming assets to decrease more slowly.


A rollforward of nonperforming assets for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 follows in Table 18.
Liquidity and Capital


Based on the average balances for the third quarter of 2020, approximately 71 percent of our funding was provided by deposit accounts, 13 percent from borrowed funds, less than 1 percent from long-term subordinated debt and 11 percent from equity. Our funding sources, which primarily include deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Banks and other banks, provide adequate liquidity to meet our operating needs.


Subsidiary Bank


Deposits and borrowed funds are the primary sources of liquidity for BOKF, NA, the wholly owned subsidiary bank of BOK Financial. We compete for retail and commercial deposits by offering a broad range of products and services and focusing on customer convenience. Retail deposit growth is supported through personal and small business checking, online bill paying services, mobile banking services, an extensive network of branch locations and ATMs and our ExpressBank call center. Commercial deposit growth is supported by offering treasury management and lockbox services. We also acquire brokered deposits when the cost of funds is advantageous to other funding sources.


Average deposits for the third quarter of 2020 totaled $34.6 billion, a $2.0 billion increase over the second quarter of 2020. Continued deposit growth was primarily due to customers maintaining higher balances in the current economic environment. Interest-bearing transaction account balances increased $1.7 billion. Demand deposits increased $440 million while certificate of deposit balances decreased $214 million.
Average Commercial Banking deposit balances increased $776 million over the second quarter of 2020. Interest-bearing transaction account balances increased $679 million. Demand deposit balances were up $215 million. Time deposits decreased $119 million compared to the prior quarter. Commercial customers continue to retain large cash reserves primarily due to a combination of factors including uncertainty about the economic environment and potential for growth, lack of preferable liquid alternatives and a desire to minimize deposit service charges through the earnings credit. The earnings credit is a non-cash method that enables commercial customers to offset deposit service charges based on account balances. Commercial deposit balances may decrease as the economic outlook improves and if short-term rates move higher, enhancing their investment alternatives.


Average Consumer Banking deposit balances increased $354 million over the prior quarter. A $151 million increase in interest-bearing transaction deposit balances, a $220 million increase in demand deposit balances and a $51 million increase in savings account balances were partially offset by a $69 million decrease in time deposit balances.


Average Wealth Management deposits increased $704 million over the second quarter of 2020, primarily due to interest-bearing transaction accounts.


Average time deposits for the third quarter of 2020 included $86 million of brokered deposits, a $72 million decrease compared to the second quarter of 2020. Average interest-bearing transaction accounts for the third quarter included $1.9 billion of brokered deposits, a $69 million increase over the second quarter of 2020.
In addition to deposits, liquidity is provided primarily by federal funds purchased, securities repurchase agreements and Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings. Federal funds purchased consist primarily of unsecured, overnight funds acquired from other financial institutions. Funds are primarily purchased from bankers’ banks and Federal Home Loan banks from across the country. The largest single source of wholesale federal funds purchased totaled $200 million at September 30, 2020. Securities repurchase agreements generally mature within 90 days and are secured by certain available for sale and trading securities. Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings are generally short-term and are secured by a blanket pledge of eligible collateral (generally unencumbered U.S. Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, 1-4 family residential mortgage loans, multifamily and other qualifying commercial real estate loans). Amounts borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka averaged $1.2 billion during the quarter, compared to $2.7 billion in the second quarter of 2020.


On April 13, 2020, the banking agencies published an interim final rule which permits banking organizations to exclude from regulatory capital requirements PPP covered loans pledged to the Federal Reserve's Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility ("PPLF"). The Company initially funded PPP loans from deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, but transitioned to the PPLF in June in order to realize this regulatory capital relief.


At September 30, 2020, the estimated unused credit available to BOKF, NA from collateralized sources was approximately $15.3 billion.


A summary of other borrowings for BOK Financial on a consolidated basis follows in Table 21.


Parent Company


At September 30, 2020, cash and interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents held by the parent company totaled $197 million. The primary sources of liquidity for BOK Financial are cash on hand and dividends from BOKF, NA. Dividends from the bank are limited by various banking regulations to net profits, as defined, for the year plus retained profits for the two preceding years. Dividends are further restricted by minimum capital requirements. At September 30, 2020, based upon the most restrictive limitations as well as management's internal capital policy, BOKF, NA could declare up to $402 million of dividends without regulatory approval. Dividend constraints may be alleviated through increases in retained earnings, capital issuances or changes in risk weighted assets. Future losses or increases in required regulatory capital at the bank could affect its ability to pay dividends to the parent company.


Our equity capital at September 30, 2020 was $5.2 billion, a $122 million increase over June 30, 2020. Net income less cash dividends paid increased equity $118 million during the third quarter of 2020. Changes in interest rates resulted in a $5.1 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive gain compared to June 30, 2020. Capital is managed to maximize long-term value to the shareholders. Factors considered in managing capital include projections of future earnings including expected benefits from lower federal income tax rates, asset growth and acquisition strategies, and regulatory and debt covenant requirements. Capital management may include subordinated debt or perpetual preferred stock issuance, share repurchase and stock and cash dividends.


- 41 -
________________




On April 30, 2019, the board of directors authorized the Company to purchase up to five million common shares, subject to market conditions, securities law and other regulatory compliance limitations. As of September 30, 2020, 1,308,713 shares have been repurchased under this authorization. The Company paused share repurchases through the third quarter of 2020. We view share buybacks opportunistically, but within the context of maintaining our strong capital position.


BOK Financial and BOKF, NA are subject to various capital requirements administered by federal agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that could have a material impact on operations. These capital requirements include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items. The capital standards are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators.


A summary of minimum capital requirements, including capital conservation buffer follows in Table 22. A bank which falls below these levels, including the capital conservation buffer, would be subject to regulatory restrictions on capital distributions (including but not limited to dividends and share repurchases) and executive bonus payments.


In March 2020, in response to the impact on the financial markets by the COVID-19 pandemic, the banking agencies issued an interim final rule permitting banking organizations that implement CECL the option to delay for two years an estimate of the CECL methodology's effect on regulatory capital, followed by a three-year transition period. The estimate includes the implementation date adjustment as of January 1, 2020 plus an estimate of the impact of the change for a two year period following implementation of CECL. We have elected to delay the regulatory capital impact of the transition in accordance with the interim final rule. Deferral of the impact of CECL added 30 basis points to the Company's Common equity Tier 1 capital at September 30, 2020.


The capital ratios for BOK Financial on a consolidated basis are presented in Table 22.
Market Risk


Market risk is a broad term for the risk of economic loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of a financial instrument. These changes may be the result of various factors, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices. Financial instruments that are subject to market risk can be classified either as held for trading or held for purposes other than trading. Market risk excludes changes in fair value due to the credit of the individual issuers of financial instruments.


BOK Financial is subject to market risk primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on both its assets held for purposes other than trading and trading assets. The effects of other changes, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices do not pose significant market risk to BOK Financial. BOK Financial has no material investments in assets that are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices. Energy and agricultural product derivative contracts, which are affected by changes in commodity prices, are matched against offsetting contracts as previously discussed.


The Asset/Liability Committee is responsible for managing market risk in accordance with policy limits established by the Board of Directors. The Committee monitors projected variation in net interest revenue, net income and economic value of equity due to specified changes in interest rates. These limits also set maximum levels for short-term borrowings, short-term assets, public funds and brokered deposits and establish minimum levels for un-pledged assets, among other things. Further, the Board approved market risk limits for fixed income trading, mortgage pipeline and mortgage servicing assets inclusive of economic hedge benefits. Exposure is measured daily and compliance is reviewed monthly. Deviations from the Board approved limits, which periodically occur throughout the reporting period, may require management to develop and execute plans to reduce exposure. These plans are subject to escalation to and approval by the Board.


The simulations used to manage market risk are based on numerous assumptions regarding the effects of changes in interest rates on the timing and extent of repricing characteristics, future cash flows and customer behavior. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, models cannot precisely estimate or precisely predict the impact of higher or lower interest rates. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, market conditions and management strategies, among other factors.


Interest Rate Risk – Other than Trading
 
As previously noted in the Net Interest Revenue section of this report, management has implemented strategies to manage the Company’s balance sheet to have relatively limited exposure to changes in interest rates over a twelve-month period. The effectiveness of these strategies in managing the overall interest rate risk is evaluated through the use of an asset/liability model. BOK Financial performs a sensitivity analysis to identify more dynamic interest rate risk exposures, including embedded option positions, on net interest revenue. A simulation model is used to estimate the effect of changes in interest rates on our performance across multiple interest rate scenarios. Our current internal policy limit for net interest revenue variation due to a 200 basis point parallel change in market interest rates over twelve months is a maximum decline of 5 percent. The results of a decrease in interest rates in the current low-rate environment are not meaningful.
The Company’s primary interest rate exposures include the Federal Funds rate, which affects short-term borrowings, and the prime lending rate and LIBOR, which are the basis for much of the variable rate loan pricing. Additionally, residential mortgage rates directly affect the prepayment speeds for residential mortgage-backed securities and mortgage servicing rights. Derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments used for purposes other than trading are included in this simulation. In addition, the impact on the level and composition of demand deposit accounts and other core deposit balances resulting from a significant increase in short-term market interest rates and the overall interest rate environment is likely to be material. The simulation incorporates assumptions regarding the effects of such changes based on a combination of historical analysis and expected behavior. The impact of planned growth and new business activities is factored into the simulation model. BOK Financial is also subjected to market risk through changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights. Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights are highly dependent on changes in primary mortgage rates offered to borrowers, intermediate-term interest rates that affect the value of custodial funds, and assumptions about servicing revenues, servicing costs and discount rates. As primary mortgage rates increase, prepayment speeds slow and the value of our mortgage servicing rights increases. As primary mortgage rates fall, prepayment speeds increase and the value of our mortgage servicing rights decreases.


We maintain a portfolio of financial instruments, which may include debt securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies and interest rate derivative contracts, held as an economic hedge of the changes in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights. Composition of this portfolio will change based on our assessment of market risk. Changes in the fair value of residential mortgage-backed securities are highly dependent on changes in secondary mortgage rates required by investors, and interest rate derivative contracts are highly dependent on changes in other market interest rates. While primary and secondary mortgage rates generally move in the same direction, the spread between them may widen and narrow due to market conditions and government intervention. Changes in the forward-looking spread between the primary and secondary rates can cause significant earnings volatility.


Management performs a stress test to measure market risk due to changes in interest rates inherent in its MSR portfolio and hedges. The stress test shocks applicable interest rates up and down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity, that may result. The Board has approved a $20 million market risk limit for mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedges.


Trading Activities


The Company bears market risk by originating residential mortgages held for sale ("RMHFS"). RMHFS are generally outstanding for 60 to 90 days, which represents the typical period from commitment to originate a loan to sale of the closed loan to an investor. Primary mortgage interest rate changes during this period affect the value of RMHFS commitments and loans. We use forward sale contracts to mitigate market risk on all closed mortgage loans held for sale and on an estimate of mortgage loan commitments that are expected to result in closed loans.


A variety of methods are used to monitor market risk of mortgage origination activities. These methods include daily marking of all positions to market value, independent verification of inventory pricing, and revenue sensitivity limits.


Management performs a stress test to measure market risk due to changes in interest rates inherent in the mortgage production pipeline. The stress test shocks applicable interest rates up and down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity that may result. The Board has approved a $7 million market risk limit for the mortgage production pipeline, net of forward sale contracts.


BOK Financial engages in trading activities both as an intermediary for customers and for its own account. As an intermediary, we take positions in securities, generally U.S. government agency residential mortgage-backed securities, government agency securities and municipal bonds. These securities are purchased for resale to customers, which include individuals, corporations, foundations and financial institutions. On a limited basis, we may also take trading positions in U.S. Treasury securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, and municipal bonds to enhance returns on securities portfolios. Both of these activities involve interest rate, liquidity and price risk. BOK Financial has an insignificant exposure to foreign exchange risk and does not take positions in commodity derivatives.


A variety of methods are used to monitor the interest rate risk of trading activities. These methods include daily marking of all positions to market value, independent verification of inventory pricing, and position limits for each trading activity. Economic hedges in either the futures or cash markets may be used to reduce the risk associated with some trading programs.


Management performs a stress test to measure market risk from changes in interest rates on its trading portfolio. The stress test shocks applicable interest rates up and down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity that may result. The Board has approved an $11 million market risk limit for the trading portfolio, net of economic hedges.
We have a significant number of loans, derivative contracts, borrowings and other financial instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectly dependent on LIBOR. In 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it would no longer persuade or compel banks to submit to LIBOR after 2021. U.S. regulatory authorities have voiced similar support for phasing out LIBOR. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Alternative Reference Rate Committee has recommended the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as an alternative for LIBOR. However, for two key reasons, SOFR is a secured rate while LIBOR is an unsecured rate and SOFR is an overnight rate while LIBOR is published for different maturities, SOFR is not the economic equivalent of LIBOR. The impact of SOFR or other alternatives to LIBOR on the valuations, pricing and operation of our financial instruments is not yet known.
Management has established a LIBOR Transition Working Group (the “Group”) whose purpose is to guide the overall transition process for the company. The Group is an internal, cross-functional team with representatives from all business lines, support and control functions and legal counsel. Key loan provisions have been modified to ensure that new and renewed loans include appropriate LIBOR fallback language to ensure the smoothest possible transition from LIBOR to the new benchmark when such transition occurs. All direct exposures resulting from existing financial contracts that mature after 2021 have been inventoried and are monitored on an ongoing basis. Remediation of these exposures will be consistent with industry timing. The Group has also inventoried indirect LIBOR exposures within the Company's systems, models and processes. The results of this assessment will drive development and prioritization of remediation plans.


Controls and Procedures
 
As required by Rule 13a-15(b), BOK Financial’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by their report, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. As required by Rule 13a-15(d), BOK Financial’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, also conducted an evaluation of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting to determine whether any changes occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, there has been no such change during the quarter covered by this report.
Forward-Looking Statements


This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's beliefs, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about BOK Financial Corporation, the financial services industry, the economy generally and the expected or potential impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, and the related responses of the government, consumers, and others, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “plans,” “projects,” “will,” “intends,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Management judgments relating to and discussion of the provision and allowance for credit losses, allowance for uncertain tax positions, accruals for loss contingencies and valuation of mortgage servicing rights involve judgments as to expected events and are inherently forward-looking statements. Assessments that acquisitions and growth endeavors will be profitable are necessary statements of belief as to the outcome of future events based in part on information provided by others which BOK Financial has not independently verified. These various forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions which are difficult to predict with regard to timing, extent, likelihood and degree of occurrence. Therefore, actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expected, implied or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Internal and external factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to changes in government, consumer or business responses to, and ability to treat or prevent further outbreak of, the COVID-19 pandemic, changes in commodity prices, interest rates and interest rate relationships, inflation, demand for products and services, the degree of competition by traditional and nontraditional competitors, changes in banking regulations, tax laws, prices, levies and assessments, the impact of technological advances, and trends in customer behavior as well as their ability to repay loans. BOK Financial and its affiliates undertake no obligation to update, amend or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


Annualized, pro forma, projected and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purpose only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results.


In this report we may sometimes use non-GAAP financial measures. Please note that although non-GAAP financial measures provide useful insight to analysts, investors and regulators, they should not be considered in isolation or relied upon as a substitute for analysis using GAAP measures. If applicable, we provide GAAP reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures.