Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsPerformance Summary BOK Financial Corporation (“the Company”) reported net income of $64.7 million or $0.92 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2020. Net income was$137.6 million or $1.93 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2019 and $62.1 million or $0.88 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2020. The Companyrecorded a pre-tax provision for expected credit losses of $135.3 million in the second quarter of 2020 and $93.8 million in the first quarter of 2020. A pre-taxprovision for incurred credit losses of $5.0 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2019. Highlights of the second quarter of 2020 included: • Net interest revenue totaled $278.1 million, a decrease of $7.3 million compared to the second quarter of 2019. Net interest margin was 2.83 percent forthe second quarter of 2020 compared to 3.30 percent for the second quarter of 2019. The Federal Reserve decreased the federal funds rate a total of 225basis points since the middle of 2019. Three 25 basis point cuts were made in the second half of 2019 and an additional 150 basis points in emergencycuts were made in March 2020 in response to the economic environment resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Average earning assets were $40.3billion for the second quarter of 2020 compared to $35.4 billion for the second quarter of 2019. Net interest revenue increased $16.7 million compared tothe first quarter of 2020, largely due to the addition of loans related to the Small Business Administration's ("SBA") Paycheck Protection Program("PPP") that began on April 3, 2020. Net interest margin increased 3 basis points, primarily due to our ability to move deposit costs down, along withLIBOR remaining elevated early in the second quarter and the strategic positioning of our balance sheet. • Fees and commissions revenue totaled $213.7 million, an increase of $37.6 million over the second quarter of 2019. Mortgage banking revenue increased$25.8 million and brokerage and trading revenue increased $21.5 million. Low mortgage interest rates continued to drive increases in mortgageproduction and related bond trading activity. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in service charges and fiduciary and asset managementrevenue. We waived certain fees during the second quarter as a result of the pandemic and lower interest rates. Fees and commissions revenue increased$21.0 million over the first quarter of 2020, largely due to increases in mortgage banking and brokerage and trading revenue. • Other operating expense totaled $295.4 million, an $18.3 million increase compared to the second quarter of 2019. Personnel expense increased $15.9million, largely due to an increase in incentive compensation costs reflecting the growth in our trading activity. Non-personnel expense increased $2.4million over the second quarter of 2019. Increases in mortgage banking costs, occupancy and equipment expense, data processing and communicationsexpense and charitable contributions were partially offset by a decrease in business promotion expenses. Operating expense increased $26.8 millioncompared to the first quarter of 2020. Personnel expense increased $20.1 million including an $11.0 million increase in incentive compensation expenserelated to increased trading activity. Non-personnel expense increased $6.7 million compared to the first quarter of 2020, led by increases in mortgagebanking costs, occupancy and equipment expenses, and charitable contributions, partially offset by a decrease in business promotion expenses.• Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights and related economic hedges provided $9.3 million during the second quarter of 2020. A $7.4million increase in the fair value of securities and derivative contracts held as an economic hedge and $2.7 million of related net interest revenue, waspartially offset by a $761 thousand decrease in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights. The net economic cost of the changes in fair value of mortgageservicing rights and related economic hedges was $7.3 million during the second quarter of 2019, including a $21.0 million increase in the fair value ofsecurities and derivatives contracts held as an economic hedge, $29.6 million decrease in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, and $1.3 million ofrelated net interest revenue. • We have implemented programs to help our customers through the pandemic and resulting uncertain times. We are actively participating in programsinitiated by the CARES Act, including the SBA's PPP. Period-end outstanding loan balances totaled $24.2 billion at June 30, 2020, an increase of $1.7billion over March 31, 2020. Average loan balances increased $2.2 billion to $24.1 billion at June 30, 2020. Period-end PPP loans were $2.1 billion andaverage PPP loans for the second quarter were $1.7 billion. We have also granted $1.2 billion in forbearance requests from customers as of June 30,including $704 million in commercial loans, $398 million in commercial real estate loans and $143 million in loans to individuals. • The allowance for loan losses totaled $436 million or 1.80 percent of outstanding loans and 175 percent of nonaccruing loans at June 30, 2020, excludingresidential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit riskfrom unfunded loan commitments was $469 million or 1.94 percent of outstanding loans at June 30, 2020. Excluding PPP loans, the allowance for loanlosses was 1.97 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loancommitments was 2.12 percent. At March 31, 2020, the allowance for loan losses was $315 million or 1.40 percent of outstanding loans and 199 percentof nonaccruing loans, excluding loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheetcredit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $344 million or 1.53 percent of outstanding loans. • Nonperforming assets not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies increased $90 million compared to March 31, 2020. Potential problem loans increased$333 million while other loans especially mentioned increased $391 million. Net charge-offs were $14.1 million or 0.25 percent of average loans on anannualized basis for the second quarter of 2020, excluding PPP loans, compared to $17.2 million or 0.31 percent of average loans on an annualized basisfor the first quarter of 2020. • Period-end deposits were $33.9 billion at June 30, 2020, a $4.6 billion increase compared to March 31, 2020. Interest-bearing transaction depositsincreased $2.3 billion while demand deposit balances increased $2.2 billion. Average deposits increased $4.5 billion, including a $2.3 billion increase indemand deposits and a $1.9 billion increase in interest-bearing deposits. An estimated $2.7 billion of this growth was related to funding of PPP loans andother CARES Act stimulus initiatives, with the remainder due to growth from our broader customer base. • The common equity Tier 1 capital ratio at June 30, 2020 was 11.44 percent. Other regulatory capital ratios were Tier 1 capital ratio, 11.44 percent, totalcapital ratio, 13.39 percent, and leverage ratio, 7.74 percent. We have elected to implement relief afforded by the CARES Act, which allows us to defer aportion of the impact to regulatory capital resulting from our adoption of CECL over the next two years, followed by a phase out of that deferral over thefollowing three years. At March 31, 2020, the common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.98 percent, the Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.98 percent, totalcapital ratio was 12.65 percent, and leverage ratio was 8.15 percent. • The Company paid a regular cash dividend of $35.8 million or $0.51 per common share during the second quarter of 2020. On August 4, 2020, the boardof directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.51 per common share payable on or about August 26, 2020 to shareholders of record as of August17, 2020. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ofAmerica (“GAAP”). The Company's accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2019 Form10-K. Management makes significant assumptions and estimates in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes inconformity with GAAP that may be highly subjective, complex and subject to variability. Actual results could differ significantly from these assumptions andestimates. The following discussion represents significant changes to critical accounting policies and estimates during 2020 in the most critical areas where theseassumptions and estimates could affect the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. Significant changes to critical accountingpolicies and estimates have been discussed with the appropriate committees of the Board of Directors. Allowance for Loan Losses and Accrual for Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk from Loan Commitments The allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments represent the portion of amortized cost basis of loansand related unfunded commitments we do not expect to collect over the asset’s contractual life, considering past events, current conditions, as well as reasonableand supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. Determining appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit riskfrom unfunded loan commitments requires management judgment about effects of uncertain matters, resulting in a subjective calculation which contains a certainamount of imprecision. Because of the subjective forward-looking nature of the calculation, changes in these measures may not directly correlate with actualeconomic events. In future periods, management judgment may consider new or changed information which may cause significant changes in these allowances inthose future periods. As of January 1, 2020 BOK Financial’s accounting policies have changed significantly with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Assets Measured at Amortized Cost ("ASU 2016-13" or "CECL").Prior years are not restated. Prior to January 1, 2020, general allowances and nonspecific allowances were based on incurred credit losses. See Note 4 to theConsolidated Financial Statements for the description of the expected credit losses calculation of the allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheetcredit risk from unfunded loan commitments. For the majority of risk-graded loans, the accruing loan’s expected credit loss estimate is sensitive to management judgment, particularly probability of default andloss given default assumptions, changes in specific macroeconomic factor forecasts, the probability weight assigned to each economic scenario, and judgmentalallocations for risks otherwise not captured in the calculation. Probability of default and loss given default measurements are based on historical data that may not be a good predictor of future performance or actual losses.Probability of default is based on risk grades, a subjective measurement of the risk of a loan. This subjective assessment of risk may not reflect actual risk of loss.Other subjective measures include the forecast for each relevant economic loss driver and the probability weighting of economic scenarios, both of which areoverseen by a senior management committee with members independent of the allowance process. Determining appropriateness of the allowance for loan lossesand accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments requires management judgment about effects of uncertain matters which may bereflected as industry or product judgmental allocations or nonspecific allowances. This results in a subjective calculation which is inherently imprecise.Although the resulting expected credit loss estimate represents management’s best estimates at the time, actual credit losses will differ from management’sestimate. Portfolio composition will change over time, actual economic conditions will differ from probability-weighted assumptions, borrower-specificcircumstances will change, as well as other factors. Differences between actual losses and management's estimates may materially affect the Company's results ofoperations. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill for each reporting unit is evaluated for impairment annually as of October 1st or more frequently if conditions indicate that impairment may haveoccurred. The evaluation of possible goodwill impairment involves significant judgment based upon short-term and long-term projections of future performance. During the evaluation for impairment, management qualitatively assesses whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units is less thantheir carrying value, including goodwill. Reporting unit carrying value includes sufficient capital to exceed regulatory requirements. This assessment includesconsideration of relevant events and circumstances including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, the financial and stockperformance of the Company and other relevant factors. Specifically, the analysis may include: • General economic conditions including overall economic activity, consumer spending and mobility, unemployment rates, consumer confidence, andduration and severity of any current market moving instability. • Regional economic conditions including demand for oil and price stability of oil, other overarching conditions that may be affecting any of the Company'sprimary states such as weather or other catastrophes, pandemics and health related lockdowns, or other state mandates. • Industry conditions including federal funds rate movement by the Federal Reserve, the interest rate environment and the resulting effect on net interestrevenue and operating revenue, and regulatory mandates that hinder or provide relief to the financial services industry. • Company specific conditions including current and forecasted income, changes in stock price, the Company's stock price compared to peers and otherindexes, book value per share compared to fair value per share, goodwill compared to total shareholders' equity, current capital and liquidity position,demand for products and services, health of the loan portfolio and other credit related factors, and current credit ratings with the ratings agencies, andregulatory ratings. • Reporting unit performance and forecasts including any event that may significantly impact a reporting unit. If management concludes based on the qualitative assessment that goodwill may be impaired, a quantitative impairment test will be applied to goodwill at allreporting units. The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. The fair value of each reportingunit is estimated by the discounted future earnings method. Goodwill is considered impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value ofthe reporting unit, including goodwill. Both the qualitative assessment and quantitative analysis require significant management judgment, including estimates of changes in future economic conditionsand their underlying causes and duration, the reasonableness and effectiveness of management's responses to those changes, changes in governmental fiscal andmonetary policies, and fair value measurements based largely on significant unobservable inputs. The results of these judgments may have a significant impact onthe Company's reported results of operations. Results of Operations Net Interest Revenue and Net Interest Margin Net interest revenue is the interest earned on debt securities, loans and other interest-earning assets less interest paid for interest-bearing deposits and otherborrowings. The net interest margin is calculated by dividing tax-equivalent net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets. Net interest spread is thedifference between the average rate earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin is typically greaterthan net interest spread due to interest income earned on assets funded by non-interest bearing liabilities such as demand deposits and equity.Tax-equivalent net interest revenue totaled $280.7 million for the second quarter of 2020 and $288.9 million in the second quarter of 2019. PPP loans added $13.6million to net interest revenue in the second quarter of 2020. Net purchase accounting discount accretion was $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2020 and $13.4million in the second quarter of 2019. Table 1 shows the effect on net interest revenue from changes in average balances and interest rates for various types ofearning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin was 2.83 percent for the second quarter of 2020, compared to 3.30 percent for the second quarter of 2019. Loan discount accretion added 3basis points to net interest margin in the second quarter of 2020 and 15 basis points in the second quarter of 2019. The tax-equivalent yield on earning assets was3.12 percent, a decrease of 139 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2019. The Federal Reserve decreased the federal funds rate a total of 225 basispoints since the middle of 2019. Three 25 basis point cuts were made in the second half of 2019 and an additional 150 basis points in emergency cuts were made inMarch 2020 in response to the economic environment resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The latest reductions reduced the federal funds rate to nearly zero.Loan yields decreased 176 basis points to 3.63 percent. The yield on trading securities decreased 113 basis points to 2.46 percent. The yield on interest-bearingcash and cash equivalents decreased 250 basis points to 0.07 percent. The available for sale securities portfolio yield decreased 34 basis points to 2.29 percent andthe yield on fair value option securities decreased 134 basis points to 2.00 percent. Funding costs decreased 133 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2019. The cost of other borrowed funds decreased 223 basis points and the cost ofinterest-bearing deposits decreased 79 basis points. The benefit to net interest margin from earning assets funded by non-interest bearing liabilities was 8 basispoints for the second quarter of 2020, a decrease of 41 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2019. Average earning assets for the second quarter of 2020 increased $5.0 billion or 14 percent over the second quarter of 2019. The average balance of available forsale securities, which consists largely of residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, increased $3.0 billion.We purchase securities to supplement earnings and to manage interest rate risk. We have increased the size of our bond portfolio in order to reduce our exposure tofalling short-term interest rates. Average loans, net of allowance for loan losses, increased $1.9 billion, largely due to the inflow of PPP loans. Receivables fromunsettled securities sales, primarily related to our U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed trading operations, increased $3.2 billion. Growth in average earningassets and non-interest bearing receivables was primarily funded by an increase in average deposits. Average deposits increased $7.5 billion compared to the second quarter of 2019. Not only have we focused on acquiring and growing deposits to enhance liquidityand support balance sheet growth, but we also saw a large inflow of deposits with the funding of PPP loans and other CARES Act related stimulus initiatives.Interest-bearing deposits increased $5.9 billion while demand deposit balances increased $1.6 billion. Tax-equivalent net interest revenue increased $16.7 million compared to the first quarter of 2020. PPP loans also added $13.6 million to net interest revenue in thesecond quarter. Average earning assets increased $1.9 billion compared to the first quarter of 2020. Average loan balances increased $2.2 billion, largely due to the influx of PPPloans. Available for sale securities increased $816 million as we have adjusted our balance sheet for the current rate environment. Fair value option securities, heldas an economic hedge of the changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, decreased $1.0 billion. In addition, receivables from unsettled securities sales,primarily related to our U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed trading operations, increased $1.6 billion. Growth in average earning assets and non-interestbearing receivables was largely funded by a $2.2 billion increase in interest-bearing deposits. Other borrowings decreased $3.0 billion, primarily due to a decreasein funds borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank partially offset by an increase in PPP loans funded through the Federal Reserve's PPP Liquidity Facility.Funds purchased and repurchase agreements increased $2.0 billion. Net interest margin was 2.83 percent compared to 2.80 percent in the previous quarter. The reduction in deposit costs, LIBOR remaining elevated early in thesecond quarter, and the strategic positioning of our balance sheet, have combined to reduce the pressure on margin. Excluding the impact of PPP loans, net interestmargin was 2.82 percent compared to 2.80 percent in the previous quarter. The yield on average earning assets decreased 61 basis points from the prior quarter as we start to see the effects of the recent Federal Reserve rate cuts. The loanportfolio yield was down 87 basis points. The yield on the available for sale securities portfolio decreased 19 basis points. Funding costs decreased 82 basis points. The cost of interest-bearing deposits decreased 64 basis points and the cost of other borrowed funds was down 117 basispoints. The benefit to net interest margin from assets funded by non-interest liabilities was 8 basis points for the second quarter of 2020 compared to 26 basispoints for the first quarter of 2020. Our overall objective is to manage the Company’s balance sheet to be relatively neutral to changes in interest rates as is further described in the Market Risksection of this report. Approximately 77% of our commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios are either variable rate or fixed rate that will reprice withinone year. These loans are funded primarily by deposit accounts that are either non-interest bearing, or that reprice more slowly than the loans. The result is abalance sheet that would be asset sensitive, which means that assets generally reprice more quickly than liabilities. One of the strategies that we use to managetoward a relative rate-neutral position is to purchase fixed-rate residential mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by U.S. government agencies and fund themwith market-rate-sensitive liabilities. The liability-sensitive nature of this strategy provides an offset to the asset-sensitive characteristics of our loan portfolio. Wealso may use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk. The effectiveness of these strategies is reflected in the overall change in net interest revenue due to changes in interest rates as shown in Table 1 and in the interestrate sensitivity projections as shown in the Market Risk section of this report. Other Operating Revenue Other operating revenue was $232.7 million for the second quarter of 2020, a $60.6 million increase over the second quarter of 2019 and a $52.4 million increaseover the first quarter of 2020. Lower mortgage interest rates have positively affected both our brokerage and trading and mortgage banking revenue, leading toincreases of $21.5 million and $25.8 million over the second quarter of 2019, respectively, and $11.2 million and $16.8 million over the first quarter of 2020,respectively. Fees and commissions revenue Diversified sources of fees and commissions revenue are a significant part of our business strategy and represented 43 percent of total revenue for the secondquarter of 2020, excluding provision for credit losses and gains and losses on other assets, securities and derivatives and the change in the fair value of mortgageservicing rights. We believe that a variety of fee revenue sources provides an offset to changes in interest rates, values in the equity markets, commodity prices andconsumer spending, all of which can be volatile. As an example of this strength, many of the economic factors such as rising interest rates resulting in a decline inmortgage related trading activities and mortgage production volumes, may also increase net interest revenue or fiduciary and asset management revenue. Weexpect growth in other operating revenue to come through offering new products and services and by further development of our presence in othermarkets. However, current and future economic conditions, including the recent impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, regulatory constraints, increased competitionand saturation in our existing markets could affect the rate of future increases. Brokerage and Trading Revenue Brokerage and trading revenue, which includes revenues from trading, customer hedging, retail brokerage and investment banking, increased $21.5 million or 53percent compared to the second quarter of 2019 Trading revenue includes net realized and unrealized gains and losses primarily related to sales of residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S.government agencies and related derivative instruments that enable our mortgage-banking customers to manage their market risk. Trading revenue also includesnet realized and unrealized gains and losses on municipal securities, asset-backed securities and other financial instruments that we sell to institutional customers,along with changes in the fair value of financial instruments we hold as economic hedges against market risk of our trading securities. Trading revenue was $43.9million for the second quarter of 2020, a $22.0 million or 101 percent increase compared to the second quarter of 2019. Industry-wide mortgage loan productiongrew in the second quarter of 2020 driven by lower rates as the Federal Reserve stepped in to provide market stability. We increased our bond trading pipeline toprovide greater liquidity to the housing market during a time of record loan production volumes. Customer hedging revenue is based primarily on realized and unrealized changes in the fair value of derivative contracts held for customer risk managementprograms. As more fully discussed under Customer Derivative Programs in Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, we offer commodity, interest rate,foreign exchange and equity derivatives to our customers. Customer hedging revenue totaled $6.2 million for the second quarter of 2020, an $896 thousand or 17percent increase compared to the second quarter of 2019. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $11.2 million compared to the previous quarter. Continued low mortgage interest rates have increased mortgageproduction as well as related trading activity, which grew trading revenue $9.5 million. Customer hedging revenue also increased $3.0 million as existingcustomers increased energy hedging activities in the volatile environment. Fiduciary and Asset Management Revenue Fiduciary and asset management revenue is earned through managing or holding of assets for customers and executing transactions or providing related services.Approximately 90 percent of fiduciary and asset management revenue is primarily based on the fair value of assets. Rates applied to asset values vary based on thenature of the relationship. Fiduciary relationships and managed asset relationships generally have higher fee rates than non-fiduciary and/or managed relationships.Fiduciary and asset management revenue decreased $3.8 million or 8 percent compared to the second quarter of 2019 and $3.2 million compared to the first quarterof 2020. The decrease is largely due to the decline in the fair value of average assets combined with the addition of approximately $1.1 million in fee waivers. Adistribution of assets under management or administration and related fiduciary and asset management revenue follows: Mortgage Banking Revenue Mortgage banking revenue increased $25.8 million or 92 percent compared to the second quarter of 2019. Mortgage loan production volumes increased $262million or 32 percent as average primary mortgage interest rates have decreased. The gain on sale margin increased 219 basis points to 3.65 percent in the secondquarter of 2020. A rapid decrease in interest rates has led to increased application demand, especially refinance demand, and industry-wide capacity constraints.Mortgage banking revenue increased $16.8 million or 45 percent compared to the first quarter of 2020. Lower mortgage interest rates during the quarter led to anincrease in mortgage production of 2 percent over an already strong first quarter. Gain on sale margin improved 159 basis points over the prior quarter due toindustry-wide capacity constraints. Service Charges Deposit service charges and fees decreased $6.0 million compared to the second quarter of 2019 and $4.1 million compared to the first quarter of 2020. Thisdecrease was due in part to "shelter in place" orders that led to lower activity and also to certain fee waivers in order to help our customers during uncertain timescaused by the pandemic. Net gains on other assets, securities and derivatives Other net gains totaled $6.8 million in the second quarter of 2020 compared to other net gains of $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2019 and other net losses of$10.7 million in the first quarter of 2020. These fluctuations are primarily related to changes in the fair value of investments related to deferred compensation thatare largely offset in deferred compensation expense. The first quarter of 2020 also included a $3.1 million impairment of an energy fund investment.As discussed in the Market Risk section following, the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") changes in response to changes in primary mortgageloan rates and other assumptions. We attempt to mitigate the earnings volatility caused by changes in the fair value of MSRs by designating certain financialinstruments as an economic hedge. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are generally expected to partially offset changes in the fair value of MSRs. Inthe second quarter of 2020, we completed a sale of mortgage servicing rights on $1.6 billion of unpaid principal balance, primarily related to loans guaranteed bythe Veteran's Administration. This sale was completed to reduce exposure to out of footprint MSRs with higher credit risk where no other relationships with theborrower exist. The fair value of contracts held as an economic hedge increased in the second quarter of 2020 while the fair value of MSRs was largely unchanged.Interest rate movements between the date we established the transaction price and the closing date of the sale produced positive results. Personnel expense Personnel expense increased $15.9 million compared to the second quarter of 2019. Incentive compensation increased $18.5 million. Cash based incentivecompensation increased $14.1 million, largely due to increased mortgage-backed securities trading activity. Deferred compensation increased $4.4 million;however, this is largely offset by an increase in the value of related investments included in Other gains (losses). Employee benefits decreased $3.7 million. Due tothe COVID-19 pandemic, many elective procedures have been put on hold and only essential services performed driving down employee healthcare costs.Personnel expense increased $20.1 million compared the first quarter of 2020. Incentive compensation increased $22.3 million. Cash based incentive compensationincreased $11.0 million, primarily due to increased mortgage-backed securities trading activity. Deferred compensation increased $11.6 million. This is largelyoffset by an increase in the value of related investments included in Other gains (losses). Employee benefits decreased $3.8 million led by a seasonal decrease inpayroll taxes and retirement plan expenses. Non-personnel operating expense Non-personnel operating expense increased $2.4 million over the second quarter of 2019. Mortgage banking costs increased $4.1 million due to additional accrualsrelated to default servicing and loss mitigation costs on loans serviced for others. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased $3.8 million, largely due to theimpairment of two leases where assumptions regarding subleasing changed due to deteriorating economic conditions. Data processing and communicationsexpense increased $3.2 million, primarily due to technology project costs. A $3.0 million charitable contribution was also made to the BOKF Foundation in thesecond quarter of 2020. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $8.2 million in business promotion expense, primarily related to a combination ofdecreased travel and entertainment expense due to the pandemic and decreased advertising costs. We experienced higher than usual advertising costs in the secondquarter of 2019 as we worked on brand recognition advertising in our Arizona and Colorado markets following the CoBiz acquisition. Non-personnel expense increased $6.7 million compared to the first quarter of 2020. Mortgage banking costs increased $5.1 million. Accruals related to defaultservicing and loss mitigation costs on loans serviced for others increased $2.8 million due to changes in our portfolio and loan counts, delinquency levels, andadditional accruals related to losses on loans in forbearance. Increased amortization of mortgage servicing rights from actual prepayments also added $1.7 millionto mortgage banking costs during the second quarter of 2020. Occupancy and equipment expense increased $4.6 million as impairment charges were incurred ontwo leases. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4.3 million in business promotion costs, largely related to reduced travel and entertainmentexpenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 19.7 percent for the second quarter of 2020, 21.4 percent for the second quarter of 2019 and 21.8 percent for the first quarter of2020. The effective tax rate decreased for the second quarter of 2020 as a result of a decrease in forecasted net income before tax for 2020. Lines of Business We operate three principal lines of business: Commercial Banking, Consumer Banking and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking includes lending, treasuryand cash management services and customer risk management products for small businesses, middle market and larger commercial customers. CommercialBanking also includes the TransFund EFT network. Consumer Banking includes retail lending and deposit services, lending and deposit services to small businesscustomers served through our consumer branch network and all mortgage banking activities. Wealth Management provides fiduciary services, private bankingservices, insurance and investment advisory services in all markets. Wealth Management also underwrites state and municipal securities and engages in brokerageand trading activities. In addition to our lines of business, we have a Funds Management unit. The primary purpose of this unit is to manage our overall liquidity needs and interest raterisk. Each line of business borrows funds from and provides funds to the Funds Management unit as needed to support their operations. Operating results for FundsManagement and other include the effect of interest rate risk positions and risk management activities, securities gains and losses including impairment charges,the provision for credit losses in excess of net loans charged off, tax planning strategies and certain executive compensation costs that are not attributed to the linesof business. The operations of CoBiz were allocated to the operating segments in the second quarter of 2019. Prior to April 1, 2019, CoBiz operations were included in FundsManagement and other. We allocate resources and evaluate the performance of our lines of business using the net direct contribution, which includes the allocation of funds, actual netcredit losses and capital costs. In addition, we measure the performance of our business lines after allocation of certain indirect expenses and taxes based onstatutory rates. The cost of funds borrowed from the Funds Management unit by the operating lines of business is transfer priced at rates that approximate market rates for fundswith similar repricing and cash flow characteristics. Market rates are generally based on the applicable LIBOR or interest rate swap rates, adjusted for prepaymentand liquidity risk. This method of transfer-pricing funds that supports assets of the operating lines of business tends to insulate them from interest rate risk. The value of funds provided by the operating lines of business to the Funds Management unit is also based on rates that approximate wholesale market rates forfunds with similar repricing and cash flow characteristics. Market rates are generally based on LIBOR or interest rate swap rates. The funds credit formula appliedto deposit products with indeterminate maturities is established based on their repricing characteristics reflected in a combination of the short-term LIBOR rate anda moving average of an intermediate-term swap rate, with an appropriate spread applied to both. Shorter duration products are weighted towards the short-termLIBOR rate and longer duration products are weighted towards the intermediate-term swap rates. The expected duration ranges from 30 days for certain ratesensitive deposits to five years. Economic capital is assigned to the business units by a capital allocation model that reflects management’s assessment of risk. This model assigns capital basedupon credit, operating, interest rate and other market risk inherent in our business lines and recognizes the diversification benefits among the units. The level ofassigned economic capital is a combination of the risk taken by each business line, based on its actual exposures and calibrated to its own loss history wherepossible. Average invested capital includes economic capital and amounts we have invested in the lines of business. As shown in Table 8, net income attributable to our lines of business decreased $1.9 million compared to the second quarter of 2019. Net interest revenuedecreased by $52.9 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreases in the short-term interest rate related to a 225 basis point reduction in the federalfunds rate by the Federal Reserve since the middle of 2019. Other operating revenue increased by $45.3 million led by our brokerage and trading and mortgagebanking businesses. Operating expense increased $11.9 million compared to the second quarter of 2019, largely due to increased incentive compensation related totrading activities. Net interest revenue decreased $3.0 million compared to the first quarter of 2020 as we started to see some of the effects of recent rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.Other operating revenue increased $30.6 million. Continued low mortgage interest rates drove increases in mortgage banking revenue of $16.7 million andbrokerage and trading revenue of $12.5 million. Other operating expense increased $8.7 million, largely driven by increased incentive compensation related totrading activities. Net income attributed to Funds Management and other was affected by the provision for expected credit losses in excess of net charge-offs of$121.2 million in the second quarter of 2020 and $76.6 million in the first quarter of 2020. Net interest revenue decreased $39.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2019. Net interest revenue decreased due to a combination of compressed loanspreads and lower deposit related net interest revenue as the value of deposits was impacted by falling interest rates. Net loans charged-off increased $6.9 million.Fees and commissions revenue increased $5.4 million or 13 percent largely due to an increase in customer energy hedging revenue as customers increased hedgesdue to the volatile price environment. Operating expenses were relatively consistent with the second quarter of 2019. Corporate expense allocations decreased $5.2million or 49 percent compared to the prior year. The average outstanding balance of loans attributed to Commercial Banking was up $450 million or 2 percent over the second quarter of 2019 to $19.3 billion. Seethe Loans section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition following for additional discussion of changes in commercial and commercialreal estate loans, which are primarily attributed to the Commercial Banking segment. Average deposits attributed to Commercial Banking were $14.6 billion for the second quarter of 2020, a $3.9 billion or 36 percent increase over the second quarterof 2019, largely related to the inflow of deposits from the CARES Act and other government stimulus initiatives along with core customer growth. SeeManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital for further discussion of change.Net interest revenue decreased $6.3 million or 4 percent compared to the first quarter of 2020 largely due to a decrease in loan spreads combined with a decline inthe value of deposits, as short term rates fell, from the Funds Management unit compared to the prior quarter. Fees and commissions revenue increased $5.1million, led by an increase in customer energy hedging revenue of $4.4 million. Other gains (losses), net also increased over the first quarter of 2020, primarilyrelated to an impairment charge recognized on an energy fund in the first quarter. Operating expense increased $2.2 million or 4 percent compared to the firstquarter of 2020, primarily due to incentive compensation costs. Average loan balances increased $451 million or 2 percent and average customer deposits increased $2.7 billion or 23 percent over the first quarter of 2020.Consumer Banking Consumer Banking provides retail banking services through four primary distribution channels: traditional branches, the 24-hour ExpressBank call center, Internetbanking and mobile banking. Consumer Banking also conducts mortgage banking activities through offices located outside of our Consumer Banking markets.Consumer Banking contributed $31.9 million to consolidated net income for the second quarter of 2020, an increase of $15.6 million over the second quarter of2019. Improved performance by Consumer Banking was largely due to the effect of lower mortgage interest rates, which has increased mortgage banking activityand related revenue. Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedges, increased pre-tax net income for the second quarter of 2020 by$6.6 million compared to an $8.6 million decrease in pre-tax net income in the second quarter of 2019. Net interest revenue from Consumer Banking activities declined by $13.4 million or 26 percent compared to the second quarter of 2019, primarily due to adecrease in the yield on deposits sold to our Funds Management unit. Average consumer deposits grew $589 million over the second quarter of 2019 with demanddeposit balances increasing $398 million or 18 percent. Deposit growth was related to CARES Act funding and government stimulus payments in addition to coregrowth. Fees and commissions revenue increased $18.4 million or 38 percent over the second quarter of 2019. Lower mortgage interest rates increased mortgage loanorigination volumes, particularly refinance volumes, which jumped to 71 percent of originations in the second quarter of 2020. Mortgage production volumeincreased $262 million or 32 percent and gain on sale margin increased 219 basis points due to industry-wide capacity constraints. Deposit service chargesdecreased $6.3 million, primarily due to reduced activity as a result of "shelter in place" initiatives as well as waived fees as a result of the pandemic. Operatingexpense increased by $1.2 million or 2 percent. Mortgage banking costs increased $4.0 million, largely related to accruals related to default servicing and lossmitigation costs on loans serviced for others. This was largely offset by a decrease in business promotion expense of 2.7 million, primarily due to rebrandingefforts in the second quarter of 2019 following the CoBiz acquisition. Corporate expense allocations were $883 thousand or 8 percent lower than the prior year.Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedges, increased pre-tax net income for the second quarter of 2020 by $6.6 millioncompared to an $8.6 million decrease in pre-tax net income in the second quarter of 2019. The completion of a sale of mortgage servicing rights on $1.6 billion ofunpaid principal balance, primarily related to loans guaranteed by the Veteran's Administration, was a large contributor. The fair value of contracts held as aneconomic hedge increased while the fair value of the servicing rights was largely unchanged. Interest rate movements between the date the transaction price wasestablished and the closing date of the sale produced positive results. Net interest revenue from Consumer Banking activities decreased $4.7 million or 11 percent compared to the first quarter of 2020. Operating revenue increased$12.1 million or 22 percent over the first quarter of 2020. Revenues from mortgage banking activities increased $16.7 million. Mortgage production volumeincreased $25 million or 2 percent as a result of lower interest rates. Gain on sale margins climbed to 3.65 percent from 2.06 percent. Deposit service chargerevenue decreased $3.9 million compared to the first quarter of 2020. We proactively waived certain fees in the second quarter to help customers throughout theuncertain time caused by the pandemic. Operating expenses increased $4.1 million, largely related to higher amortization of mortgage servicing rights and accruals related to default servicing and lossmitigation costs on loans serviced for others. Average consumer loans decreased $33 million or 2 percent. Average deposits increased $718 million or 10 percent, primarily due to funding related to theCARES Act as well as core growth. Wealth Management Wealth Management contributed $33.4 million to consolidated net income in the second quarter of 2020, an increase of $7.9 million or 31 percent compared to thesecond quarter of 2019. Increased fees and commissions revenue, primarily from residential mortgage-backed securities trading, was partially offset by relatedincentive compensation costs. Net interest revenue was relatively consistent with the second quarter of 2019. Increased net interest revenue related to growth in trading activity was offset by areduction in the value of deposits sold to the Funds Management unit. Average loans attributed to the Wealth Management segment increased $62 million or 4percent. Average deposits increased $2.2 billion or 35 percent, largely due to core growth. Fees and commissions revenue increased $20.8 million or 24 percent over the second quarter of 2019. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $20.7 million dueto increased trading activity as a result of lower mortgage interest rates. We increased our bond trading pipeline in the second quarter of 2020 to provide greaterliquidity to the housing market during a time of record volumes. Average trading assets, which includes trading securities inventory and receivables from unsettledsecurities sales, were $6.3 billion for the second quarter of 2020 compared to $3.1 billion for the second quarter of 2019. Fiduciary and asset management revenuedecreased $3.8 million related to a combination of lower average asset values and waived fees. Operating expense increased $11.1 million or 16 percent comparedto the second quarter of 2019, primarily related to incentive compensation expense on higher trading activity. Corporate expense allocations decreased $964 thousand or 11 percent compared to the prior year.Net income for Wealth Management increased $10.8 million or 48 percent compared to the first quarter of 2020. Net interest revenue increased $8.0 million due to higher net interest revenue related to residential mortgage-backed trading activities and increased depositbalances, partially offset by the decline in the value of deposits sold to the Funds Management unit. Brokerage and trading revenue increased $8.9 million due to anincrease in trading activity and volumes due to market volatility. Operating expenses increased $2.4 million, largely due to variable incentive compensation relatedto revenue growth, partially offset by lower business promotion expense. Average loans maintained at $1.7 billion and average deposits increased $762 million or 10 percent to $8.4 billion. Financial Condition Securities We maintain a securities portfolio to enhance profitability, manage interest rate risk, provide liquidity and comply with regulatory requirements. Securities areclassified as trading, held for investment, or available for sale. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the composition of the securities portfolioas of June 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019. We hold an inventory of trading securities in support of sales to a variety of customers, including banks, corporations, insurance companies, money managers andothers. Trading securities decreased $914 million to $1.2 billion during the second quarter of 2020. As discussed in the Market Risk section of this report, tradingactivities involve risk of loss from adverse price movement. We mitigate this risk within board-approved limits through the use of derivative contracts, short-salesand other techniques. These limits remain relatively unchanged from levels set before our expanded trading activities. At June 30, 2020, the carrying value of investment (held-to-maturity) securities was $268 million, including a $1.6 million allowance for expected credit lossescompared to $274 million at March 31, 2020 with a $1.5 million allowance for expected credit losses. The fair value of investment securities was $299 million atJune 30, 2020 and $296 million at March 31, 2020. Investment securities consist primarily of residential mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. governmentagencies, long-term, fixed rate Oklahoma and Texas municipal bonds, and taxable Texas school construction bonds. Available for sale securities, which may be sold prior to maturity, are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses, net of deferred taxes, are recorded asaccumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. The amortized cost of available for sale securities totaled $12.0 billion at June 30, 2020, a $270million decrease compared to March 31, 2020. At June 30, 2020, the available for sale securities portfolio consisted primarily of U.S. government agencyresidential mortgage-backed securities and U.S. government agency commercial mortgage-backed securities. Both residential and commercial mortgage-backedsecurities have credit risk from delinquency or default of the underlying loans. We mitigate this risk by primarily investing in securities issued by U.S. governmentagencies. Principal and interest payments on the underlying loans are fully guaranteed. Commercial mortgage-backed securities have prepayment penalties similarto commercial loans. A primary risk of holding residential mortgage-backed securities comes from extension during periods of rising interest rates or prepayment during periods offalling interest rates. We evaluate this risk through extensive modeling of risk both before making an investment and throughout the life of the security. Our bestestimate of the duration of the combined residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio held in investment and available for sale securities at June 30, 2020 is 2.4years. Management estimates the duration extends to 3.7 years assuming an immediate 200 basis point upward shock. The estimated duration contracts to 2.1 yearsassuming a 100 basis point decline in the current low rate environment. Commercial Commercial loans represent loans for working capital, facilities acquisition or expansion, purchases of equipment and other needs of commercial customersprimarily located within our geographical footprint. These loans are underwritten individually and represent ongoing relationships based on a thorough knowledgeof the customer, the customer’s industry and market. While commercial loans are generally secured by the customer’s assets including real property, inventory,accounts receivable, operating equipment, interests in mineral rights and other property and may also include personal guarantees of the owners and related parties,the primary source of repayment of the loans is the ongoing cash flow from operations of the customer’s business. In addition, revolving lines of credit aregenerally governed by a borrowing base. Inherent lending risks are centrally monitored on a continuous basis from underwriting throughout the life of the loan forcompliance with commercial lending policies. Commercial loans totaled $14.2 billion or 59 percent of the loan portfolio at June 30, 2020, a $637 million decrease compared to March 31, 2020, primarily due topaydowns in the second quarter. Approximately 79 percent of loans in this segment are located within our geographic footprint, based on collateral location. Loans for which the collateral locationis less relevant, such as unsecured loans and reserve-based energy loans are categorized by the borrower's primary operating location. The largest concentration ofloans in this segment outside of our footprint is California, totaling 4 percent of the segment. Supporting the energy industry with loans to producers and other energy-related entities has been a hallmark of the Company since its founding and represents alarge portion of our commercial loan portfolio. In addition, energy production and related industries have a significant impact on the economy in our primarymarkets. Loans collateralized by oil and gas properties are subject to a semi-annual engineering review by our internal staff of petroleum engineers. This review isused as the basis for developing the expected cash flows supporting the loan amount. The projected cash flows are discounted according to risk characteristics ofthe underlying oil and gas properties. Loans are evaluated to demonstrate with reasonable certainty that crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can berecovered from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions at current pricing levels and with existing conventional equipmentand operating methods and costs. As part of our evaluation of credit quality, we analyze rigorous stress tests over a range of commodity prices and take proactivesteps to mitigate risk when appropriate. Outstanding energy loans totaled $4.0 billion or 16 percent of total loans at June 30, 2020, a $138 million decrease compared to March 31, 2020. Approximately$3.1 billion of energy loans were to oil and gas producers, down $105 million compared to March 31, 2020. The majority of this portfolio is first lien, seniorsecured, reserve-based lending, which we believe is the lowest risk form of energy lending. Approximately 62 percent of the committed production loans aresecured by properties primarily producing oil and 38 percent of the committed production loans are secured by properties primarily producing natural gas.Loans to midstream oil and gas companies totaled $688 million at June 30, 2020, up $17 million over March 31, 2020. Loans to borrowers that provide services tothe energy industry totaled $142 million at June 30, 2020, down $42 million. Loans to other energy borrowers, including those engaged in wholesale or retailenergy sales, totaled $63 million, a $7.3 million decrease compared to the prior quarter. Unfunded energy loan commitments were $2.5 billion at June 30, 2020, a $222 million decrease compared to March 31, 2020 primarily due to semi-annualborrowing base redeterminations completed during the second quarter. The healthcare sector of the loan portfolio totaled $3.3 billion or 14 percent of total loans. Healthcare loans increased $124 million over March 31, 2020, primarilydue to growth in balances from medical service providers. Healthcare sector loans consist primarily of loans for the development and operation of senior housingand care facilities, including independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing. Generally we loan to borrowers with a portfolio of multiple facilities thatserves to help diversify risks specific to a single facility. Healthcare also includes loans to hospitals and other medical service providers impacted by a deferral ofelective procedures. The CARES Act includes multiple revenue enhancement measures for both hospitals and skilled nursing facilities as they manage through therisks of the virus. The services sector of the loan portfolio decreased $176 million to $3.8 billion or 16 percent of total loans. Service sector loans consist of a large number of loansto a variety of businesses, including Native American tribal and state and local governments, Native American tribal casino operations, educational services,foundations and not-for-profit organizations and specialty trade contractors. Approximately $1.9 billion of the services category is made up of loans withindividual balances of less than $10 million. Services sector loans are generally secured by the assets of the borrower with repayment coming from the cash flowsof ongoing operations of the customer’s business. General business loans decreased $448 million to $3.1 billion or 13 percent of total loans. General business loans consist of $1.7 billion of wholesale/retail loans,$780 million of loans from other commercial industries, and the remainder from manufacturing loans. Our services and general business loans include areas we consider to be more exposed to the economic slowdown as a result of the social distancing measures inplace to combat the COVID-19 pandemic such as entertainment and recreation, retail, hotels, churches, airline travel, and higher education that are dependent onlarge social gatherings to remain profitable. This represents less than 7 percent of our total portfolio. Some of these borrowers have participated in the PPP, whichhas provided some measure of relief. We will continue to monitor these areas closely in the coming months. We participate in shared national credits when appropriate to obtain or maintain business relationships with local customers. Shared national credits are defined bybanking regulators as credits of more than $100 million and with three or more non-affiliated banks as participants. At June 30, 2020, the outstanding principalbalance of these loans totaled $4.7 billion, including $2.2 billion of energy loans. Substantially all of these loans are to borrowers with local marketrelationships. We serve as the agent lender in approximately 21 percent of our shared national credits, based on dollars committed. We hold shared national creditsto the same standard of analysis and perform the same level of review as internally originated credits. Our lending policies generally avoid loans in which we donot have the opportunity to maintain or achieve other business relationships with the customer. In addition to management’s quarterly assessment of credit risk,banking regulators annually review a sample of shared national credits for proper risk grading. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate represents loans for the construction of buildings or other improvements to real estate and property held by borrowers for investmentpurposes generally within our geographical footprint. We require collateral values in excess of the loan amounts, demonstrated cash flows in excess of expecteddebt service requirements, equity investment in the project and a portion of the project already sold, leased or permanent financing already secured. The expectedcash flows from all significant new or renewed income producing property commitments are stress tested to reflect the risks in varying interest rates, vacancy ratesand rental rates. As with commercial loans, inherent lending risks are centrally monitored on a continuous basis from underwriting throughout the life of the loanfor compliance with applicable lending policies. The commercial real estate loan balance as a percentage of our total loan portfolio has ranged from 19 percent to 22 percent over the past five years. Theoutstanding balance of commercial real estate loans increased $104 million over March 31, 2020. Multifamily residential loans, our largest exposure in commercialreal estate, increased $125 million to $1.4 billion at June 30, 2020. Pay downs from refinances into the permanent market slowed during the second quarter. Loanssecured by office buildings increased $12 million to $974 million. Loans secured by other commercial real estate properties decreased $32 million to $533 million.Loans secured by retail facilities were $780 million at June 30, 2020, largely unchanged from the prior quarter. Approximately 71 percent of loans in this segment are in our geographic footprint based on collateral location. The largest concentration of loans in this segmentoutside our footprint is Utah, totaling 7 percent of the segment, followed by California at 6 percent. All other states represent less than 5 percent individually.Loans secured by retail facilities and office buildings may be adversely impacted by measures being taken to hinder the spread of the virus as well as changes inconsumer behavior. Payment Protection Program We are actively participating in programs initiated by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act"), including the Small BusinessAdministration's ("SBA") Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") that began on April 3, 2020. PPP provided fully forgivable loans when utilized for qualifiedexpenditures, including to help small business maintain payrolls during the COVID-19 pandemic. These loans have a contractual term of two years, though mostare expected to be forgiven prior to maturity after completion of a compliance period. Loans are guaranteed and amounts forgiven will be reimbursed to theCompany by the SBA. The loans carry a rate of 1 percent. Interest plus loan fees, which vary depending on loan size, are accrued over the contractual life of theloan. Any unaccreted origination fees will be recognized when the loan is paid. Loans to Individuals Loans to individuals include residential mortgage and personal loans. Residential mortgage loans provide funds for our customers to purchase or refinance theirprimary residence or to borrow against the equity in their home. These loans are secured by a first or second mortgage on the customer's primary residence. Theseloans are made in accordance with underwriting policies we believe to be conservative and are fully documented. Loans may be individually underwritten or creditscored based on size and other criteria. Credit scoring is assessed based on significant credit characteristics including credit history, residential and employmentstability. In general, we sell the majority of our conforming fixed rate loan originations in the secondary market and retain the majority of our non-conforming andadjustable-rate mortgage loans. We have no concentration in sub-prime residential mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan portfolio does not include payment optionadjustable rate mortgage loans or adjustable rate mortgage loans with initial rates that are below market. Home equity loans are primarily first-lien and fullyamortizing Residential mortgage, which includes home equity loans, and personal loans are made in accordance with underwriting policies we believe to be conservative andare fully documented. Loans may be individually underwritten or credit scored based on size and other criteria. Credit scoring is assessed based on significantcredit characteristics including credit history, residential and employment stability. Personal loans consist primarily of loans to Wealth Management clients secured by the cash surrender value of insurance policies and marketable securities. It alsoincludes direct loans secured by and for the purchase of automobiles, recreational and marine equipment as well as unsecured loans. Approximately 93 percent of the loans in this segment are secured by collateral located within our geographical footprint. Loans for which the collateral location isless relevant, such as unsecured loans are categorized by the borrower’s primary operating location. Residential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies have limited credit exposure because of the agency guarantee. This amount includesresidential mortgage loans previously sold into GNMA mortgage pools that the Company may repurchase when certain defined delinquency criteria are met.Because of this repurchase right, the Company is deemed to have regained effective control over these loans and must include them on the Consolidated BalanceSheet. The Company secondarily evaluates loan portfolio performance based on the primary geographical market managing the loan. Loans attributed to a geographicalmarket may not represent the location of the borrower or the collateral. All permanent mortgage loans serviced by our mortgage banking unit and held forinvestment by the Company are centrally managed by the Oklahoma market. Off-Balance Sheet Commitments We enter into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal course of business as shown in Table 14. Loan commitments may be unconditional obligationsto provide financing or conditional obligations that depend on the borrower’s financial condition, collateral value or other factors. Standby letters of credit areunconditional commitments to guarantee the performance of our customer to a third party. Since some of these commitments are expected to expire before beingdrawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We have off-balance sheet commitments related to certain residential mortgage loans sold into mortgage-backed securities as part of our mortgage bankingactivities. We retain off-balance sheet credit risk related to losses in excess of amounts guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs ("VA"). During thesecond quarter, we sold mortgage servicing rights related to residential mortgage loans primarily guaranteed by the VA with an unpaid principal balance of $1.6billion. We also have off-balance sheet credit risk related to certain residential mortgage loans primarily originated under community development loan programs that weresold to a U.S. government agency with full recourse prior to 2007. We are obligated to repurchase these loans for the life of these loans in the event of foreclosurefor the unpaid principal and interest at the time of foreclosure. The majority of our conforming fixed rate loan originations are sold in the secondary market and weonly retain repurchase obligations under standard underwriting representations and warranties. The CARES Act provided protections for borrowers with agency-backed residential mortgages that are serviced by the Company. Forbearance must be grantedupon receiving a request from a borrower and the borrower's attestation to a financial hardship associated with the COVID-19 emergency. The Bank is required tooffer up to a 6 month forbearance, with the possibility of an additional 6 month extension. This program was available to all current and delinquent borrowers,including those in bankruptcy and/or foreclosure. As of June 30, 2020, agency-serviced loans in forbearance included 4,503 borrowers with an unpaid principalbalance of $792 million. For certain contracts, we must advance principal and interest payments during the forbearance period. Advances as of June 30, 2020totaled $6.2 million. Advances are generally reimbursed to us by the appropriate agencies. Loans in forbearance are considered delinquent when payments are notmade for purposes of valuing mortgage servicing rights and for purposes of determining GNMA loans that are eligible to be repurchased. As of June 30, 2020,40% of borrowers in forbearance remained current. Customer Derivative Programs We offer programs that permit our customers to hedge various risks, including fluctuations in energy, cattle and other agricultural product prices, interest rates andforeign exchange rates. Each of these programs work essentially the same way. Derivative contracts are executed between the customers and theCompany. Offsetting contracts are executed between the Company and selected counterparties to minimize market risk due to changes in commodity prices,interest rates or foreign exchange rates. The counterparty contracts are identical to the customer contracts, except for a fixed pricing spread or a fee paid to us ascompensation for administrative costs, credit risk and profit. The customer derivative programs create credit risk for potential amounts due to the Company from our customers and from the counterparties. Customer creditrisk is monitored through existing credit policies and procedures. The effects of changes in commodity prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates are evaluatedacross a range of possible scenarios to determine the maximum exposure we are willing to have individually to any customer. Customers may also be required toprovide cash margin or other collateral in conjunction with our credit agreements to further limit our credit risk. Counterparty credit risk is evaluated through existing policies and procedures. This evaluation considers the total relationship between BOK Financial and each ofthe counterparties. Individual limits are established by management, approved by Credit Administration and reviewed by the Asset/Liability Committee. Margincollateral is required if the exposure between the Company and any counterparty exceeds established limits. Based on declines in the counterparties’ credit ratings,these limits may be reduced and additional margin collateral may be required. A deterioration of the credit standing of one or more of the customers or counterparties to these contracts may result in BOK Financial recognizing a loss as the fairvalue of the affected contracts may no longer move in tandem with the offsetting contracts. This occurs if the credit standing of the customer or counterpartydeteriorated such that either the fair value of underlying collateral no longer supported the contract or the customer or the counterparty’s ability to provide margincollateral was impaired. Credit losses on customer derivatives reduce brokerage and trading revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.Derivative contracts are carried at fair value. At June 30, 2020, the net fair values of derivative contracts, before consideration of cash margin, reported as assetsunder these programs totaled $658 million compared to $929 million at March 31, 2020. At June 30, 2020, the net fair value of our derivative contracts included$282 million for foreign exchange contracts, $235 million for energy contracts and $140 million for interest rate swaps. The aggregate net fair value of derivativecontracts, before consideration of cash margin, held under these programs reported as liabilities totaled $620 million at June 30, 2020 and $893 million atMarch 31, 2020. At June 30, 2020, total derivative assets were reduced by $156 million of cash collateral received from counterparties and total derivative liabilities were reducedby $132 million of cash collateral paid to counterparties related to instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement.A table showing the notional and fair value of derivative assets and liabilities on both a gross and net basis is presented in Note 3 to the Consolidated FinancialStatements. The fair value of derivative contracts reported as assets under these programs, net of cash margin held by the Company, by category of debtor at June 30, 2020follows in Table 15. At June 30, 2020, our largest derivative exposure was to an exchange for energy contracts of $47 million. Our customer derivative program also introduces liquidity and capital risk. We are required to provide cash margin to certain counterparties when the net negativefair value of the contracts exceeds established limits. Also, changes in commodity prices affect the amount of regulatory capital we are required to hold as supportfor the fair value of our derivative assets. These risks are modeled as part of the management of these programs. Based on current prices, a decrease in marketprices equivalent to $26.16 per barrel of oil would not be great enough to create a scenario in which we are owed by our customers. This is due to the price of oilbeing within the weighted average fixed price of the portfolio. Rather, we would be owed by the counterparties, however, due to our margining status withcounterparties, one would not see any impact here. An increase in prices equivalent to $53.24 per barrel of oil would increase the fair value of derivative assets by$127 million as margin received falls faster than the asset values. Further increases in price to the equivalent of $70.65 per barrel of oil would increase the fairvalue of our derivative assets by $312 million with lending customers comprising the bulk of the assets. Liquidity requirements of this program may also beaffected by our credit rating. At June 30, 2020, a decrease in our credit rating to below investment grade would increase our obligation to post cash margin onexisting contracts by approximately $10 million. The fair value of our to-be-announced residential mortgage-backed securities and interest rate swap derivativecontracts is affected by changes in interest rates. Based on our assessment as of June 30, 2020, changes in interest rates would not materially impact regulatorycapital or liquidity needed to support this portion of our customer derivative program. The Company adopted FASB Accounting Standard Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Assets Measured at Amortized Cost("CECL") on January 1, 2020 through a pre-tax cumulative-effect adjustment to equity of $61.4 million. CECL requires recognition of expected credit losses onassets carried at amortized cost over their expected lives. The previous incurred loss model incorporated only known information as of the balance sheet date. Prioryears reported under the incurred loss model have not been restated. CECL uses models to measure the probability of default and loss given default over a 12-month reasonable and supportable forecast period. Models incorporate base case, downside and upside macroeconomic variables such as real gross domesticproduct ("GDP") growth, civilian unemployment rate and West Texas Intermediate ("WTI") oil prices on a probability weighted basis. See Note 4 to theconsolidated financial statements for additional discussion of methodology of allowance for loan losses. The provision for credit losses was $135.3 million for the second quarter of 2020, with $138.8 million related to lending activities. Changes in our reasonable andsupportable forecasts of macroeconomic variables, primarily due to the anticipated impact of the on-going COVID-19 pandemic, and other assumptions, required aprovision of $54.6 million. All other changes totaled $84.2 million, which included $14.4 million primarily due to increased specific impairment of energy loans,portfolio changes of $55.7 million primarily due to changes in risk grades related to energy loans partially offset by the impact of a decrease in loan balances, andnet charge-offs of $14.1 million. The provision related to lending activities was decreased by a $3.6 million reduction in the accrual for expected credit losses frommortgage banking activities. During the second quarter, the Company sold certain mortgage servicing rights related to residential mortgage loans transferred tomortgage-backed securities. These servicing rights expose the Company to credit risk for amounts that exceed the U.S. government agency guarantees. The civilian unemployment rate is used in estimating expected credit losses for a number of our portfolios because historically it has been a good indicator offinancial difficulty. The upward change in unemployment rates during the first half of 2020 was unprecedented and has been considered within the context of thegovernment’s response through the CARES Act. These enacted economic stimulus programs, which expire in the third quarter of 2020, have increased benefitsavailable and broadened definitions of those eligible for unemployment benefits. As a result, the historical relationship between unemployment rates and creditlosses is currently not a reliable indicator of future expected credit losses. Instead, management developed a forecast for civilian unemployment rates then analyzedthe effect of enacted economic stimulus. This analysis showed current expected credit losses are likely more similar to unemployment rates 2 to 4 percentagepoints lower than forecasted rates. We reduced the base case forecasted civilian unemployment rate for the third quarter of 2020 to 8.4 percent, the downside caseto 9.7 percent, and the upside case to 7.4 percent. Management took a similar approach in estimating the impact of possible future government stimulus programs deployed after the third quarter of 2020 for theremainder of the forecast period. Expected credit losses are likely to be more similar to unemployment rates that are 1 percentage point lower than forecasted ratescausing management to reduce its estimate of expected credit losses through a qualitative adjustment of $15 million. The second quarter provision for credit losses was also affected by changes in risk grading. A summary of loans by risk grade is included in Note 4 to theConsolidated Financial Statements. Non-pass grade loans which include other loans especially mentioned, defined by regulatory guidelines as loans that arecurrently performing in compliance with original terms but may have a potential weakness that deserves management’s close attention, accruing substandard loans,and nonaccruing loans totaled $1.5 billion at June 30, an $816 million increase from March 31. Non-pass graded energy loans totaled $1.1 billion at June 30, a$716 million increase from March 31. The recent oil price decline, coupled with the capital markets environment requiring certain customers to work through theirliquidity needs weighed on some energy borrowers. The forward price curve for energy, particularly oil, remained depressed throughout most of the secondquarter, but recovered somewhat in June. This risk grade migration was realized as we completed most of our energy borrowing base redeterminations in April andMay. Prices have improved since, but do remain fragile and closely tied to the continued economic recovery. Should current price levels hold into our next semiannual borrowing base redetermination in the fall, we would anticipate positive credit quality migration in this portfolio. Although fiscal stimulus through PPP, SBA support and other CARES Act programs have had a positive impact on credit quality, we received a number of deferralor forbearance requests early in the second quarter. All requests were evaluated on a case-by-case basis and all loans greater than $1 million that requestedforbearance were reviewed for proper grading. We granted $1.2 billion in forbearance requests from customers as of June 30, including $704 million, or 5 percentof commercial loans, primarily in small business and healthcare, $398 million, or 9 percent of commercial real estate loans and $143 million, or 4 percent of loansto individuals. As of mid-July, we are approaching the expiration of the first 90-day deferral period. Upon request, we will consider an additional 90-day deferral.To date, over 60 percent of the loans with payment deferrals are going back to regular payments. The allowance for loan losses totaled $436 million or 1.80 percent of outstanding loans and 175 percent of nonaccruing loans at June 30, 2020, excludingresidential mortgage loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk fromunfunded loan commitments was $469 million or 1.94 percent of outstanding loans and 188 percent of nonaccruing loans at June 30, 2020. Excluding PPP loans,the allowance for loan losses was 1.97 percent of outstanding loans and the combined allowance for loan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk fromunfunded loan commitments was 2.12 percent. The allowance for credit losses attributed to energy was 4.44 percent of outstanding energy loans at June 30. Our semi-annual borrowing base redeterminationsbased on forward pricing curves that existed at that time resulted in credit quality migration. While forward prices subsequently improved, the pricing environmentremains fragile and tied to the continued economic recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe the duration of the downturn is a moresignificant factor affecting performance than the level of prices. We also conduct quarterly stress tests of our energy borrowers with more than 50 percent funding on their lines of credit and all non-pass graded loans using acurrent price deck discounted at 20 percent. This stress test helps us identify potential issues, although the most recent test corroborated the risk grading of energyborrowers evaluated once hedging was taken into consideration. Of all the energy customers that we stress test, which makes up 96 percent of production loansoutstanding, 91 percent of our customers have some level of hedging in the 12-month range and many of them carry into the 24-month range.The company recorded a $93.8 million provision for credit losses in the first quarter of 2020. The allowance for loan losses was $315 million or 1.40 percent ofoutstanding loans and 199 percent of nonaccruing loans, excluding loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies at March 31, 2020. The combined allowance forloan losses and accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk from unfunded loan commitments was $344 million or 1.53 percent of outstanding loans and 217 percent ofnonaccruing loans. Net Loans Charged Off Net charge-offs of commercial loans were $14.2 million in the second quarter of 2020, primarily related to energy production loans. Net commercial real estateloan recoveries were $74 thousand and net recoveries of loans to individuals were $16 thousand. Net charge-offs of loans to individuals include deposit accountoverdraft losses. Accrual for Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk Associated with Mortgage Banking Activities The accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk associated with mortgage banking activities includes consideration of credit risk related to certain residential mortgageloans sold into mortgage-backed securities in excess of amounts guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs ("VA") and mortgage loans originatedunder community development loan programs that were sold to a U.S. government agency with full recourse. We use publicly available long-term national data to estimate total loss given default for our off-balance sheet credit risk related to losses in excess of amountsguaranteed by the VA. This result is combined with probability of default output from our mortgage servicing rights model to estimate total expected loss. Then,we estimate the VA's guarantee percentage to determine our portion of the credit risk. Qualitative adjustment may be used, if necessary. The accrual for off-balance sheet credit risk associated with mortgage banking activities decreased $3.6 million during the second quarter, primarily due to the saleof mortgage servicing rights related to $1.6 billion of residential mortgage loans during the quarter. These servicing rights expose the Company to credit risk foramounts that exceed the U.S. government agency guarantees. Allowance for Credit Losses Related to Held-to-Maturity (Investment) Securities The expected credit losses principles apply to all financial assets measured at cost, including our held-to-maturity (investment) debt securities portfolio. Ourinvestment portfolio includes municipal and other tax-exempt securities and other debt securities. Expected credit losses for these assets is based on probability ofdefault and loss given default assumptions that align with similarly graded loans. Qualitative adjustment may be used, if necessary Nonperforming Assets As more fully described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, loans are generally classified as nonaccruing when it becomes probable that we willnot collect the full contractual principal and interest. Accruing renegotiated loans guaranteed by U.S. government agencies represent residential mortgage loansthat have been modified in troubled debt restructurings. Interest continues to accrue based on the modified terms of the loan and loans may be sold once theybecome eligible according to U.S. government agency guidelines. Real estate and other repossessed assets are assets acquired in partial or total forgiveness ofloans. The assets are carried at the lower of cost as determined by fair value at the date of foreclosure or current fair value, less estimated selling costs. A summaryof nonperforming assets follows in Table 17: Liquidity and Capital Based on the average balances for the second quarter of 2020, approximately 66 percent of our funding was provided by deposit accounts, 19 percent fromborrowed funds, less than 1 percent from long-term subordinated debt and 10 percent from equity. Our funding sources, which primarily include deposits andborrowings from the Federal Home Loan Banks and other banks, provide adequate liquidity to meet our operating needs. Subsidiary Bank Deposits and borrowed funds are the primary sources of liquidity for BOKF, NA, the wholly owned subsidiary bank of BOK Financial. We compete for retail andcommercial deposits by offering a broad range of products and services and focusing on customer convenience. Retail deposit growth is supported throughpersonal and small business checking, online bill paying services, mobile banking services, an extensive network of branch locations and ATMs and ourExpressBank call center. Commercial deposit growth is supported by offering treasury management and lockbox services. We also acquire brokered deposits whenthe cost of funds is advantageous to other funding sources. Average deposits for the second quarter of 2020 totaled $32.7 billion, a $4.5 billion increase over the first quarter of 2020. Inflows resulting from PPP loans andother government stimulus payments provided to customers by the CARES Act during the pandemic, along with additional core deposit growth as customer'smaintain higher balances, have all contributed to the significant increase in deposits. Demand deposits increased $2.3 billion, interest-bearing transaction accountbalances increased $1.9 billion Average Commercial Banking deposit balances increased $2.7 billion over the first quarter of 2020. Demand deposit balances increased $1.6 billion and interestbearing transaction account balances increased $723 million. Time deposits were up $358 million over the prior quarter. Commercial customers continue to retainlarge cash reserves primarily due to a combination of factors including uncertainty about the economic environment and potential for growth, lack of preferableliquid alternatives and a desire to minimize deposit service charges through the earnings credit. The earnings credit is a non-cash method that enables commercialcustomers to offset deposit service charges based on account balances. Commercial deposit balances may decrease as the economic outlook improves and if shortterm rates move higher, enhancing their investment alternatives. Average Consumer Banking deposit balances increased $718 million compared to the prior quarter. A $502 million increase in demand deposit balances, a $153million increase in interest-bearing transaction deposit balances and an $81 million increase in savings account balances was partially offset by an $18 milliondecrease in time deposit balances. Average Wealth Management deposits increased $762 million over the first quarter of 2020. Interest-bearing transaction account balances were up $603 million.Demand deposit balances increased $163 million. Average time deposits for the second quarter of 2020 included $158 million of brokered deposits, an $89 million decrease compared to the first quarter of 2020.Average interest-bearing transaction accounts for the second quarter included $1.8 billion of brokered deposits, a $448 million increase over the first quarter of2020.In addition to deposits, liquidity is provided primarily by federal funds purchased, securities repurchase agreements and Federal Home Loan Bankborrowings. Federal funds purchased consist primarily of unsecured, overnight funds acquired from other financial institutions. Funds are primarily purchased frombankers’ banks and Federal Home Loan banks from across the country. The largest single source of wholesale federal funds purchased totaled $200 million atJune 30, 2020. Securities repurchase agreements generally mature within 90 days and are secured by certain available for sale and trading securities. Federal HomeLoan Bank borrowings are generally short-term and are secured by a blanket pledge of eligible collateral (generally unencumbered U.S. Treasury and agencymortgage-backed securities, 1-4 family residential mortgage loans, multifamily and other qualifying commercial real estate loans). Amounts borrowed from theFederal Home Loan Bank of Topeka averaged $2.7 billion during the quarter, compared to $6.5 billion in the first quarter of 2020. On March 15, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced changes to the Discount Window, including narrowing the spread of the primary credit rate relative to thegeneral level of overnight interest to help encourage more active use of the Discount Window by depository institutions. We increased our collateral at theDiscount Window and maintained a modest amount of borrowings in late March into early April. On April 13, 2020, the banking agencies published an interimfinal rule which permits banking organizations to exclude from regulatory capital requirements PPP covered loans pledged to the Federal Reserve's PaycheckProtection Program Liquidity Facility ("PPLF"). The Company initially funded PPP loans from deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, but transitionedto the PPLF in June in order to realize this regulatory capital relief. At June 30, 2020, the estimated unused credit available to BOKF, NA from collateralized sources was approximately $14.6 billion. A summary of other borrowings for BOK Financial on a consolidated basis follows in Table 21. BOKF, NA also has a liability related to the repurchase of certain delinquent residential mortgage loans previously sold in GNMA mortgage pools. Interest ispayable monthly at rates contractually due to investors. This liability increased over the prior quarter primarily due to GNMA loans serviced by the Company thatare participating in the forbearance program included in the CARES Act, which began in the second quarter. As delinquencies increase, the GNMA repurchaseliability will also increase. Parent Company At June 30, 2020, cash and interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents held by the parent company totaled $180 million. The primary sources of liquidity for BOKFinancial are cash on hand and dividends from BOKF, NA. Dividends from the bank are limited by various banking regulations to net profits, as defined, for theyear plus retained profits for the two preceding years. Dividends are further restricted by minimum capital requirements. At June 30, 2020, based upon the mostrestrictive limitations as well as management's internal capital policy, BOKF, NA could declare up to $134 million of dividends without regulatory approval.Dividend constraints may be alleviated through increases in retained earnings, capital issuances or changes in risk weighted assets. Future losses or increases inrequired regulatory capital at the bank could affect its ability to pay dividends to the parent company. Our equity capital at June 30, 2020 was $5.1 billion, a $70 million increase over March 31, 2020. Net income less cash dividends paid increased equity $29 millionduring the second quarter of 2020. Changes in interest rates resulted in a $39 million increase in accumulated other comprehensive gain over March 31, 2020.Capital is managed to maximize long-term value to the shareholders. Factors considered in managing capital include projections of future earnings includingexpected benefits from lower federal income tax rates, asset growth and acquisition strategies, and regulatory and debt covenant requirements. Capital managementmay include subordinated debt or perpetual preferred stock issuance, share repurchase and stock and cash dividends. On April 30, 2019, the board of directors authorized the Company to purchase up to five million common shares, subject to market conditions, securities law andother regulatory compliance limitations. As of June 30, 2020, 1,308,713 shares have been repurchased under this authorization. The Company paused sharerepurchases through the second quarter of 2020. We view share buybacks opportunistically, but within the context of maintaining our strong capital position.BOK Financial and BOKF, NA are subject to various capital requirements administered by federal agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements canresult in certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that could have a material impact on operations. These capital requirementsinclude quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items. The capital standards are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators.A summary of minimum capital requirements, including capital conservation buffer follows in Table 22. A bank which falls below these levels, including thecapital conservation buffer, would be subject to regulatory restrictions on capital distributions (including but not limited to dividends and share repurchases) andexecutive bonus payments. In March 2020, in response to the impact on the financial markets by the COVID-19 pandemic, the banking agencies issued an interim final rule permittingbanking organizations that implement CECL the option to delay for two years an estimate of the CECL methodology's effect on regulatory capital, followed by athree-year transition period. The estimate includes the implementation date adjustment as of January 1, 2020 plus an estimate of the impact of the change for a twoyear period following implementation of CECL. We have elected to delay the regulatory capital impact of the transition in accordance with the interim final rule.Deferral of the impact of CECL added 30 basis points to the Company's Common equity Tier 1 capital at June 30, 2020. The capital ratios for BOK Financial on a consolidated basis are presented in Table 22. Market Risk Market risk is a broad term for the risk of economic loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of a financial instrument. These changes may be the result ofvarious factors, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices. Financial instruments that are subject to market risk can beclassified either as held for trading or held for purposes other than trading. Market risk excludes changes in fair value due to the credit of the individual issuers offinancial instruments. BOK Financial is subject to market risk primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on both its assets held for purposes other than trading and tradingassets. The effects of other changes, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices do not pose significant market risk to BOK Financial. BOKFinancial has no material investments in assets that are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices. Energy and agricultural product derivativecontracts, which are affected by changes in commodity prices, are matched against offsetting contracts as previously discussed. The Asset/Liability Committee is responsible for managing market risk in accordance with policy limits established by the Board of Directors. The Committeemonitors projected variation in net interest revenue, net income and economic value of equity due to specified changes in interest rates. These limits also setmaximum levels for short-term borrowings, short-term assets, public funds and brokered deposits and establish minimum levels for un-pledged assets, among otherthings. Further, the Board approved market risk limits for fixed income trading, mortgage pipeline and mortgage servicing assets inclusive of economic hedgebenefits. Exposure is measured daily and compliance is reviewed monthly. Deviations from the Board approved limits, which periodically occur throughout thereporting period, may require management to develop and execute plans to reduce exposure. These plans are subject to escalation to and approval by the Board.The simulations used to manage market risk are based on numerous assumptions regarding the effects of changes in interest rates on the timing and extent ofrepricing characteristics, future cash flows and customer behavior. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, models cannot precisely estimate orprecisely predict the impact of higher or lower interest rates. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interestrate changes, market conditions and management strategies, among other factors. Interest Rate Risk – Other than Trading As previously noted in the Net Interest Revenue section of this report, management has implemented strategies to manage the Company’s balance sheet to haverelatively limited exposure to changes in interest rates over a twelve-month period. The effectiveness of these strategies in managing the overall interest rate risk isevaluated through the use of an asset/liability model. BOK Financial performs a sensitivity analysis to identify more dynamic interest rate risk exposures, includingembedded option positions, on net interest revenue. A simulation model is used to estimate the effect of changes in interest rates on our performance acrossmultiple interest rate scenarios. Our current internal policy limit for net interest revenue variation due to a 200 basis point parallel change in market interest ratesover twelve months is a maximum decline of 5 percent. The results of a decrease in interest rates in the current low-rate environment are not meaningful. The Company’s primary interest rate exposures include the Federal Funds rate, which affects short-term borrowings, and the prime lending rate and LIBOR, whichare the basis for much of the variable rate loan pricing. Additionally, residential mortgage rates directly affect the prepayment speeds for residential mortgagebacked securities and mortgage servicing rights. Derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments used for purposes other than trading are includedin this simulation. In addition, the impact on the level and composition of demand deposit accounts and other core deposit balances resulting from a significantincrease in short-term market interest rates and the overall interest rate environment is likely to be material. The simulation incorporates assumptions regarding theeffects of such changes based on a combination of historical analysis and expected behavior. The impact of planned growth and new business activities is factoredinto the simulation model. BOK Financial is also subjected to market risk through changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights. Changes in the fair value of mortgage servicingrights are highly dependent on changes in primary mortgage rates offered to borrowers, intermediate-term interest rates that affect the value of custodial funds, andassumptions about servicing revenues, servicing costs and discount rates. As primary mortgage rates increase, prepayment speeds slow and the value of ourmortgage servicing rights increases. As primary mortgage rates fall, prepayment speeds increase and the value of our mortgage servicing rights decreases.We maintain a portfolio of financial instruments, which may include debt securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies and interest rate derivativecontracts, held as an economic hedge of the changes in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights. Composition of this portfolio will change based on ourassessment of market risk. Changes in the fair value of residential mortgage-backed securities are highly dependent on changes in secondary mortgage ratesrequired by investors, and interest rate derivative contracts are highly dependent on changes in other market interest rates. While primary and secondary mortgagerates generally move in the same direction, the spread between them may widen and narrow due to market conditions and government intervention. Changes in theforward-looking spread between the primary and secondary rates can cause significant earnings volatility. Management performs a stress test to measure market risk due to changes in interest rates inherent in its MSR portfolio and hedges. The stress test shocksapplicable interest rates up and down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity, that may result. The Boardhas approved a $20 million market risk limit for mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedges. Trading Activities The Company bears market risk by originating residential mortgages held for sale ("RMHFS"). RMHFS are generally outstanding for 60 to 90 days, whichrepresents the typical period from commitment to originate a loan to sale of the closed loan to an investor. Primary mortgage interest rate changes during thisperiod affect the value of RMHFS commitments and loans. We use forward sale contracts to mitigate market risk on all closed mortgage loans held for sale and onan estimate of mortgage loan commitments that are expected to result in closed loans. A variety of methods are used to monitor market risk of mortgage origination activities. These methods include daily marking of all positions to market value,independent verification of inventory pricing, and revenue sensitivity limits. Management performs a stress test to measure market risk due to changes in interest rates inherent in the mortgage production pipeline. The stress test shocksapplicable interest rates up and down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity that may result. The Boardhas approved a $7 million market risk limit for the mortgage production pipeline, net of forward sale contracts. BOK Financial engages in trading activities both as an intermediary for customers and for its own account. As an intermediary, we take positions in securities,generally U.S. government agency residential mortgage-backed securities, government agency securities and municipal bonds. These securities are purchased forresale to customers, which include individuals, corporations, foundations and financial institutions. On a limited basis, we may also take trading positions in U.S.Treasury securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, and municipal bonds to enhance returns on securities portfolios. Both of these activities involve interestrate, liquidity and price risk. BOK Financial has an insignificant exposure to foreign exchange risk and does not take positions in commodity derivatives.A variety of methods are used to monitor the interest rate risk of trading activities. These methods include daily marking of all positions to market value,independent verification of inventory pricing, and position limits for each trading activity. Economic hedges in either the futures or cash markets may be used toreduce the risk associated with some trading programs. Management performs a stress test to measure market risk from changes in interest rates on its trading portfolio. The stress test shocks applicable interest rates upand down 50 basis points and calculates an estimated change in fair value, net of economic hedging activity that may result. The Board has approved an $11million market risk limit for the trading portfolio, net of economic hedges. We have a significant number of loans, derivative contracts, borrowings and other financial instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectlydependent on LIBOR. In 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it would no longer persuade or compel banks to submit to LIBOR after 2021.U.S. regulatory authorities have voiced similar support for phasing out LIBOR. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Alternative Reference Rate Committeehas recommended the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as an alternative for LIBOR. However, for two key reasons, SOFR is a secured rate whileLIBOR is an unsecured rate and SOFR is an overnight rate while LIBOR is published for different maturities, SOFR is not the economic equivalent of LIBOR. Theimpact of SOFR or other alternatives to LIBOR on the valuations, pricing and operation of our financial instruments is not yet known. Management has established a LIBOR Transition Working Group (the “Group”) whose purpose is to guide the overall transition process for the company. TheGroup is an internal, cross-functional team with representatives from all business lines, support and control functions and legal counsel. Key loan provisions havebeen modified to ensure that new and renewed loans include appropriate LIBOR fallback language to ensure the smoothest possible transition from LIBOR to thenew benchmark when such transition occurs. All direct exposures resulting from existing financial contracts that mature after 2021 have been inventoried and aremonitored on an ongoing basis. Remediation of these exposures will be consistent with industry timing. The Group has also inventoried indirect LIBOR exposureswithin the Company's systems, models and processes. The results of this assessment will drive development and prioritization of remediation plans.Controls and Procedures As required by Rule 13a-15(b), BOK Financial’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as ofthe end of the period covered by their report, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as ofthe end of the period covered by this report. As required by Rule 13a-15(d), BOK Financial’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and ChiefFinancial Officer, also conducted an evaluation of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting to determine whether any changes occurred during thequarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls over financialreporting. Based on that evaluation, there has been no such change during the quarter covered by this report. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's beliefs, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about BOKFinancial Corporation, the financial services industry, the economy generally and the expected or potential impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic,and the related responses of the government, consumers, and others, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Words such as “anticipates,”“believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “plans,” “projects,” “will,” “intends,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify suchforward-looking statements. Management judgments relating to and discussion of the provision and allowance for credit losses, allowance for uncertain taxpositions, accruals for loss contingencies and valuation of mortgage servicing rights involve judgments as to expected events and are inherently forward-lookingstatements. Assessments that acquisitions and growth endeavors will be profitable are necessary statements of belief as to the outcome of future events based inpart on information provided by others which BOK Financial has not independently verified. These various forward-looking statements are not guarantees of futureperformance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions which are difficult to predict with regard to timing, extent, likelihood and degree ofoccurrence. Therefore, actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expected, implied or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Internaland external factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to changes in government, consumer or business responses to, and ability to treator prevent further outbreak of, the COVID-19 pandemic, changes in commodity prices, interest rates and interest rate relationships, inflation, demand for productsand services, the degree of competition by traditional and nontraditional competitors, changes in banking regulations, tax laws, prices, levies and assessments, theimpact of technological advances, and trends in customer behavior as well as their ability to repay loans. BOK Financial and its affiliates undertake no obligationto update, amend or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Annualized, pro forma, projected and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purpose only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results.In this report we may sometimes use non-GAAP financial measures. Please note that although non-GAAP financial measures provide useful insight to analysts,investors and regulators, they should not be considered in isolation or relied upon as a substitute for analysis using GAAP measures. If applicable, we provideGAAP reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures.