 ITEM 7A &#8211; QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

This information is set forth in the Risk Management section of Item 7 and in Note 1 Accounting Policies, Note 15 Fair Value and Note 16 Financial Derivatives in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
See the Glossary on page 194 for additional information on certain terms and acronyms used throughout the Financial Statements
and related Notes.
B
USINESS
PNC is one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the U.S. and is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
We have businesses engaged in retail banking, including residential mortgage, corporate and institutional banking and asset
management, providing many of our products and services nationally. Our retail branch network is located coast-to-coast. We also
have strategic international offices in four countries outside the U.S.
NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Financial Statement Presentation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its subsidiaries, most of which are wholly-
owned, certain partnership interests and VIEs.
On June 1, 2021, we acquired BBVA, a U.S. financial holding company conducting its business operations primarily through its U.S.
banking subsidiary, BBVA USA. Our results of operations and balance sheets for all periods presented in this Report reflect the
benefit of BBVA’s acquired businesses for the period since the acquisition closed on June 1, 2021. See Note 2 Acquisition and
Divestiture Activity for additional information related to this acquisition.
We prepared these consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We have eliminated intercompany accounts and
transactions. We have also reclassified certain prior-year amounts to conform to the current period presentation, which did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
We have also considered the impact of subsequent events on these consolidated financial statements.
Noninterest Income Presentation
Effective for the first quarter of 2022, PNC updated the presentation of its noninterest income categorization to be based on product
and service type, and accordingly, has changed the basis of presentation of its noninterest income revenue streams to: (i) Asset
management and brokerage, (ii) Capital markets related, (iii) Card and cash management, (iv) Lending and deposit services, (v)
Residential and commercial mortgage and (vi) Other noninterest income. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2022, PNC updated the
name of the noninterest income line item “Capital markets related” to “Capital markets and advisory.” This update did not impact the
components of the category. A description of each revenue stream follows:
Asset management and brokerage includes revenue from our asset management and retail brokerage businesses. Asset management
services include investment management, custody, retirement planning, family planning, trust management and retirement
administration. Brokerage services offer retail customers a wide range of investment options, including mutual funds, annuities, stock,
bonds and managed accounts.
Capital markets and advisory includes revenue from services and activities primarily related to merger and acquisition advisory,
equity capital markets advisory, asset-backed financing, loan syndication, securities underwriting, credit valuation adjustments related
to the derivatives portfolio and customer-related trading.
Card and cash management includes revenue primarily from debit and credit card activities, inclusive of credit card points and
rewards, treasury management services and ATM fees. Debit and credit card activities include interchange revenue and merchant
service fees. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables and disbursement management,
funds transfer, international payment and access to online/mobile information management and reporting.
Lending and deposit services includes revenue primarily related to service charges on deposits, loan commitment and usage fees, the
issuance of standby letters of credit, operating lease income and long-term care and insurance products.
Residential and commercial mortgage includes the gain and loss on sale of mortgages, revenue related to our mortgage servicing
responsibilities, mortgage servicing rights valuation adjustments and net gains on originations and sales of loans held for sale.
94 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KOther noninterest income is primarily composed of private equity revenue, net securities gains and losses, activity related to our
equity investment in Visa and gains and losses on asset sales.
See Note 24 Fee-based Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional details related to these revenue streams within the
scope of ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Use of Estimates
We prepared these consolidated financial statements using financial information available at the time of preparation, which requires us
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Our most significant estimates pertain to the ACL and our fair
value measurements, including for the BBVA acquisition. Actual results may differ from the estimates and the differences may be
material to the consolidated financial statements.
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Cash and due from banks are considered cash and cash equivalents for financial reporting purposes because they represent a primary
source of liquidity. Certain cash balances within Cash and due from banks on our Consolidated Balance Sheet are restricted as to
withdrawal or usage by legally binding contractual agreements or regulatory requirements.
Investments
We hold interests in various types of investments. The accounting for these investments is dependent on a number of factors including,
but not limited to, items such as:
• Ownership interest,
• Our plans for the investment, and
• The nature of the investment.
Debt Securities
Debt securities are recorded on a trade-date basis. We classify debt securities as either trading, held to maturity, or available for sale.
Debt securities that we purchase for certain risk management activities or customer-related trading activities are classified as trading
securities, are reported in the Other assets line item on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and are carried at fair value. Realized and
unrealized gains and losses on trading securities are included in Other noninterest income. We classify debt securities as held to
maturity when we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity, and carry them at amortized cost, less any
allowance. Debt securities not classified as held to maturity or trading are classified as securities available for sale and are carried at
fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities are included in AOCI net of income taxes.
We include all interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on investment securities, in
net interest income using the constant effective yield method generally calculated over the contractual lives of the securities. Effective
yields reflect either the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition or, for debt securities where an OTTI
was recorded, the effective interest rate determined based on improved cash flows subsequent to an impairment. We compute gains
and losses realized on the sale of available for sale debt securities on a specific security basis. These securities gains and losses are
included in Other noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement.
The CECL standard requires expected credit losses on both held to maturity and available for sale securities to be recognized through
a valuation allowance, ACL, instead of as a direct write-down to the amortized cost basis of the security. An available for sale security
is considered impaired if the fair value is less than its amortized cost basis. If any portion of the decline in fair value is related to
credit, the amount of allowance is determined as the portion related to credit, limited to the difference between the amortized cost
basis and the fair value of the security. If we have the intent to sell or believe it is more likely than not we will be required to sell an
impaired available for sale security before recovery of the amortized cost basis, the credit loss is recorded as a direct write-down of the
amortized cost basis. Credit losses on investment securities are recognized through the Provision for credit losses on our Consolidated
Income Statement. Declines in the fair value of available for sale securities that are not considered credit related are recognized in
AOCI on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
We consider a security to be past due in terms of payment based on its contractual terms. A security may be placed on nonaccrual,
with interest no longer recognized until received, when collectability of principal or interest is doubtful. As of December 31, 2022,
nonaccrual or past due held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities were immaterial.
A security may be partially or fully charged off against the allowance if it is determined to be uncollectible, including, for an available
for sale security, if we have the intent to sell or believe it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before
recovery of the amortized cost basis. Recoveries of previously charged-off available for sale securities are recognized when received,
while recoveries on held to maturity securities are recognized when expected.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 95See the Allowance for Credit Losses section of this Note 1 for further discussion regarding the methodologies used to determine the
allowance for investment securities. See Note 3 Investment Securities for additional information about the investment securities
portfolio and the related ACL.
Equity Securities and Partnership Interests
We account for equity securities, equity investments, private equity investments, and investments in limited partnerships, limited
liability companies and other investments that are not required to be consolidated under one of the following methods:
• We use the equity method for general and limited partner ownership interests and limited liability companies in which we are
considered to have significant influence over the operations of the investee. Under the equity method, we record our equity
ownership share of net income or loss of the investee in Noninterest income and any dividends received on equity method
investments are recorded as a reduction to the investment balance. When an equity investment experiences an other-than-
temporary decline in value, we may be required to record a loss on the investment.
• We measure equity securities that have a readily determinable fair value at fair value through Net income. Both realized and
unrealized gains and losses are included in Noninterest income. Dividend income on these equity securities is included in
Other interest income on our Consolidated Income Statement.
• We generally use the practicability exception to fair value measurement for all other investments without a readily
determinable fair value. When we elect this alternative measurement method, the investment is recorded at cost and the
carrying value is adjusted for impairment, if any, plus or minus changes in value resulting from observable price changes in
orderly transactions for identical or similar instruments of the same issuer. Adjustments to fair value based on changes in
observable price are recorded in Other noninterest income. These investments are written down to fair value if a qualitative
assessment indicates impairment and the fair value is less than the carrying value. The amount of the write-down is accounted
for as a loss included in Other noninterest income. Distributions received on these investments are included in Noninterest
income.
Investments described above are included in Equity investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Private Equity Investments
We report private equity investments, which include direct investments in companies, affiliated partnership interests and indirect
investments in private equity funds, at estimated fair value. These estimates are based on available information and may not
necessarily represent amounts that we will ultimately realize through distribution, sale or liquidation of the investments. Fair values of
publicly-traded direct investments are determined using quoted market prices and are subject to various discount factors arising from
security level restrictions, when appropriate. The valuation procedures applied to direct investments and indirect investments are
detailed in Note 15 Fair Value. We include all private equity investments within Equity investments on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Changes in fair value of private equity investments are recognized in Other noninterest income.
We consolidate affiliated partnerships when we have determined that we have control of the partnership or are the primary beneficiary
if the entity is a VIE. The portion we do not own is reflected in Noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Loans
Loans are classified as held for investment when management has both the intent and ability to hold the loan for the foreseeable future,
or until maturity or payoff. Management’s intent and view of the foreseeable future may change based on changes in business
strategies, the economic environment, market conditions and the availability of government programs.
Measurement of delinquency status is based on the contractual terms of each loan. Loans that are 30 days or more past due in terms of
payment are considered delinquent. See Note 4 Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses for additional information on how
COVID-19 hardship related loan modifications are reported from a delinquency perspective as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Loans held for investment, excluding PCD loans, are recorded at amortized cost basis unless we elect to measure these under the fair
value option. Amortized cost basis represents principal amounts outstanding, net of unearned income, unamortized deferred fees and
costs on originated loans, premiums or discounts on purchased loans and charge-offs. Amortized cost basis does not include accrued
interest, as we include accrued interest in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Interest on performing loans is accrued
based on the principal amount outstanding and recorded in Interest income as earned using the constant effective yield method over
the contractual life. Loan origination fees, direct loan origination costs, and loan premiums and discounts are deferred and accreted or
amortized into Net interest income using the constant effective yield method, over the contractual life of the loan. The processing fee
received for loans originated through PPP lending under the CARES Act is deferred and accreted into Net interest income using the
effective yield method, over the contractual life of the loan. Loans under the fair value option are reported at their fair value, with any
changes to fair value reported as Noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement, and are excluded from measurement of
ALLL.
96 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KIn addition to originating loans, we also acquire loans through the secondary loan market, portfolio purchases or acquisitions of other
financial services companies. Certain acquired loans that have experienced a more-than-insignificant deterioration of credit quality
since origination (i.e., PCD) are recognized at an amortized cost basis equal to their purchase price plus an ALLL measured at the
acquisition date. PNC considers a variety of factors in connection with the identification of more-than-insignificant deterioration in
credit quality, including but not limited to nonperforming status, delinquency, risk ratings, TDR classification and other qualitative
factors that indicate deterioration in credit quality since origination. Subsequent decreases in expected cash flows that are attributable,
at least in part, to credit quality are recognized through a charge to the provision for credit losses resulting in an increase in the ALLL.
Subsequent increases in expected cash flows are recognized as a provision recapture of previously recorded ALLL.
We consider a loan to be collateral dependent when we determine that substantially all of the expected cash flows will be generated
from the operation or sale of the collateral underlying the loan, or when the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and we have
elected to measure the loan at the estimated fair value of collateral (less costs to sell if sale or foreclosure of the property is expected).
Additionally, we consider a loan to be collateral dependent when foreclosure or liquidation of the underlying collateral is probable.
A TDR is a loan whose terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial
difficulty. A concession has been granted when we do not expect to collect all amounts due, including original interest accrued at the
original contract rate, as a result of the restructuring, or there is a delay in payment that is more-than-insignificant. TDRs result from
our loss mitigation activities, and include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, postponement/reduction of scheduled amortization,
and extensions, which are intended to minimize economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral. Additionally,
TDRs also result from borrowers that have been discharged from personal liability through Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not
formally reaffirmed their loan obligations to us. In those situations where principal is forgiven, the amount of such principal
forgiveness is immediately charged off.
Potential incremental losses or recoveries on TDRs have been factored into the ALLL estimates for each loan class under the
methodologies described in this Note. Once a loan becomes a TDR, it will continue to be reported as a TDR until it is ultimately
repaid in full, the collateral is foreclosed upon or it is fully charged off.
PNC excludes loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option and certain government insured or guaranteed loans
from our TDR population. PCD loans do not require additional considerations and thus are evaluated for inclusion in our TDR
population. Prior to the expiration of TDR relief on January 1, 2022, PNC elected not to apply a TDR designation to loans that were
restructured due to a COVID-19 hardship pursuant to specific criteria under the CARES Act. Since loans restructured due to a
COVID-19 related hardship were not identified as TDRs, they were not placed on nonaccrual at the time of modification unless
payment in full of principal or interest was not expected. These loans continued to be subject to our existing nonaccrual policy.
See the following for additional information related to loans, including further discussion regarding our policies, the methodologies
and significant inputs used to determine the ALLL and additional details on the composition of our loan portfolio:
• Nonperforming Loans and Leases section of this Note 1,
• Allowance for Credit Losses section of this Note 1, and
• Note 4 Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 97Nonperforming Loans and Leases
The matrix that follows summarizes our policies for classifying certain loans as nonperforming loans and/or discontinuing the accrual
of loan interest income.
Commercial
Loans classified as • Loans accounted for at amortized cost where:
nonperforming and accounted – The loan is 90 days or more past due.
for as nonaccrual – The loan is rated substandard or worse due to the determination that full collection of principal and
interest is not probable as demonstrated by the following conditions:
• The collection of principal or interest is 90 days or more past due,
• Reasonable doubt exists as to the certainty of the borrower’s future debt service ability, according
to the terms of the credit arrangement, regardless of whether 90 days have passed or not,
• The borrower has filed or will likely file for bankruptcy,
• The bank advances additional funds to cover principal or interest,
• We are in the process of liquidating a commercial borrower or
• We are pursuing remedies under a guarantee.
Loans excluded from • Loans accounted for under the fair value option and full collection of principal and interest is not probable.
nonperforming classification but
• Loans accounted for at the lower of cost or market less costs to sell (held for sale) and full collection of
accounted for as nonaccrual
principal and interest is not probable.
Loans excluded from • Loans that are well secured and in the process of collection.
nonperforming classification and
• Certain government insured loans where substantially all principal and interest is insured.
nonaccrual accounting
• Commercial purchasing card assets which do not accrue interest.
Consumer
Loans classified as • Loans accounted for at amortized cost where full collection of contractual principal and interest is not
nonperforming and accounted deemed probable as demonstrated in the policies below:
for as nonaccrual – The loan is 90 days past due for home equity and installment loans, and 180 days past due for well
secured residential real estate loans,
– The loan has been modified and classified as a TDR,
– The loan has been modified to defer prior payments in forbearance to the end of the loan term,
– Notification of bankruptcy has been received,
– The bank holds a subordinate lien position in the loan and the first lien mortgage loan is seriously
stressed (i.e., 90 days or more past due),
– Other loans within the same borrower relationship have been placed on nonaccrual or charge-offs have
been taken on them,
– The bank has ordered the repossession of non-real estate collateral securing the loan or
– The bank has charged-off the loan to the value of the collateral.
Loans excluded from • Loans accounted for under the fair value option and full collection of principal and interest is not probable.
nonperforming classification but
• Loans accounted for at the lower of cost or market less costs to sell (held for sale) and full collection of
accounted for as nonaccrual
principal and interest is not probable.
Loans excluded from • Certain government insured loans where substantially all principal and interest is insured.
nonperforming classification and
• Residential real estate loans that are well secured and in the process of collection.
nonaccrual accounting
• Consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate or automobiles, as permitted by
regulatory guidance.
Commercial
We generally charge-off commercial (commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and equipment lease financing)
nonperforming loans when we determine that a specific loan, or portion thereof, is uncollectible. This determination is based on the
specific facts and circumstances of the individual loans. In making this determination, we consider the viability of the business or
project as a going concern, the past due status when the asset is not well-secured, the expected cash flows to repay the loan, the value
of the collateral and the ability and willingness of any guarantors to perform. For commercial loans and leases less than a defined
dollar threshold, balances are charged-off in full after pre-determined days past due.
Consumer
We generally charge-off secured consumer (home equity, residential real estate and automobile) nonperforming loans to the fair
value of collateral less costs to sell, if lower than the amortized cost basis of the loan outstanding, when delinquency of the loan,
combined with other risk factors (e.g., bankruptcy, lien position or troubled debt restructuring), indicates that the loan, or some portion
thereof, is uncollectible as per our historical experience, or the collateral has been repossessed. We charge-off secured consumer loans
no later than 180 days past due. Most consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by automobiles or residential real estate, are
charged-off once they have reached 120-180 days past due.
For secured collateral dependent loans, collateral values are updated at least annually and subsequent declines in collateral values are
charged-off resulting in incremental provision for credit loss. Subsequent increases in collateral values may be reflected as an
adjustment to the ALLL to reflect the expectation of recoveries in an amount greater than previously expected, limited to amounts
previously charged-off.
98 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KAccounting for Nonperforming Assets and Leases and Other Nonaccrual Loans
For nonaccrual loans, interest income accrual and deferred fee/cost recognition is discontinued. Additionally, depending on whether
the accrued interest has been incorporated into the ACL estimates, as discussed in the Accrued Interest section of this Note 1, the
accrued and uncollected interest is either reversed through Net interest income (if a CECL reserve is not maintained for accrued
interest) or charged-off against the allowance (if a CECL reserve is maintained for accrued interest), except for credit cards, where we
reverse any accrued interest through Net interest income at the time of charge-off, as per industry standard practice. Nonaccrual loans
that are also collateral dependent may be charged-off to reduce the basis to the fair value of collateral less costs to sell.
If payment is received on a nonaccrual loan, generally the payment is first applied to the remaining principal balance; payments are
then applied to recover any charged-off amounts related to the loan. Finally, if both principal balance and any charge-offs have been
recovered, then the payment will be recorded as fee and interest income. For certain consumer loans, the receipt of interest payments is
recognized as interest income on a cash basis. Cash basis income recognition is applied if a loan’s amortized cost basis is deemed fully
collectible and the loan has performed for at least six months.
For TDRs, payments are applied based upon their contractual terms unless the related loan is deemed non-performing. TDRs are
generally included in nonperforming and nonaccrual loans. However, after a reasonable period of time, generally six months, in which
the loan performs under restructured terms and meets other performance indicators, it is returned to performing/accruing status. This
return to performing/accruing status demonstrates that the bank expects to collect all of the loan’s remaining contractual principal and
interest. TDRs resulting from (i) borrowers that have been discharged from personal liability through Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have
not formally reaffirmed their loan obligations to us, and (ii) borrowers that are not currently obligated to make both principal and
interest payments under the restructured terms are not returned to accrual status.
Other nonaccrual loans are generally not returned to accrual status until the borrower has performed in accordance with the contractual
terms and other performance indicators for at least six months, the period of time which was determined to demonstrate the expected
collection of the loan’s remaining contractual principal and interest. Nonaccrual loans with partially charged-off principal are not
returned to accrual. When a nonperforming loan is returned to accrual status, it is then considered a performing loan.
Foreclosed assets consist of any asset seized or property acquired through a foreclosure proceeding or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of
foreclosure. OREO comprises principally commercial and residential real estate properties obtained in partial or total satisfaction of
loan obligations. After obtaining a foreclosure judgment, or in some jurisdictions the initiation of proceedings under a power of sale in
the loan instruments, the property will be sold. When we are awarded title or completion of deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, we transfer the
loan to foreclosed assets included in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Property obtained in satisfaction of a loan is
initially recorded at estimated fair value less cost to sell. Based upon the estimated fair value less cost to sell, the amortized cost basis
of the loan is adjusted and a charge-off/recovery is recognized to the ALLL. We estimate fair values primarily based on appraisals, or
sales agreements with third parties. Subsequently, foreclosed assets are valued at the lower of the amount recorded at acquisition date
or estimated fair value less cost to sell. Valuation adjustments on these assets and gains or losses realized from disposition of such
property are reflected in Other noninterest expense.
For certain mortgage loans that have a government guarantee, we establish a separate other receivable upon foreclosure. The
receivable is measured based on the loan balance (inclusive of principal and interest) that is expected to be recovered from the
guarantor.
See Note 4 Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses for additional information on nonperforming assets, TDRs and credit
quality indicators related to our loan portfolio.
Allowance for Credit Losses
Our ACL, in accordance with the CECL standard adopted on January 1, 2020, is based on historical loss experience, current borrower
risk characteristics, current economic conditions, reasonable and supportable forecasts of future conditions and other relevant factors.
We maintain the ACL at an appropriate level for expected losses on our existing investment securities, loans, equipment finance
leases, other financial assets and unfunded lending related commitments, for the estimated contractual term of the assets or exposures
as of the balance sheet date. The remaining contractual term of assets in scope of CECL is estimated considering contractual maturity
dates, prepayment expectations, utilization or draw expectations and any embedded extension options that do not allow us to
unilaterally cancel the extension options. For products without a fixed contractual maturity date (e.g., credit cards), we rely on
historical payment behavior to determine the length of the paydown or default time period.
We estimate expected losses on a pooled basis using a combination of (i) the expected losses over a reasonable and supportable
forecast period, (ii) a period of reversion to long-run average expected losses where applicable and (iii) the long run average expected
losses for the remaining estimated contractual term. For all assets and unfunded lending related commitments in the scope of CECL,
the ACL also includes individually assessed reserves and qualitative reserves, as applicable.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 99We use forward-looking information in estimating expected credit losses for our reasonable and supportable forecast period. For this
purpose, we use forecasted scenarios produced by PNC’s Economics Team, which are designed to reflect business cycles and their
related estimated probabilities. The forecast length that we have determined to be reasonable and supportable is three years. As noted
in the methodology discussions that follow, forward-looking information is incorporated into the expected credit loss estimates. Such
forward looking information includes forecasted relevant macroeconomic variables, which are estimated using quantitative
macroeconomic models, analysis from PNC economists and management judgment.
The reversion period is used to bridge our three year reasonable and supportable forecast period and the long run average expected
credit losses. We consider a number of factors in determining the duration of the reversion period, such as contractual maturity of the
asset, observed historical patterns and the estimated credit loss rates at the end of the forecast period relative to the beginning of the
long run average period. The reversion period is typically 1-3 years, if not immediate.
The long-run average expected credit losses are derived from long run historical credit loss information adjusted for the credit quality
of the current portfolio, and therefore do not consider current and forecasted economic conditions.
See the following sections related to investment securities, loans, trade receivables, other financial assets and unfunded lending related
commitments for details about specific methodologies.
Allowance for Investment Securities
A significant portion of our investment securities are issued or guaranteed by either the U.S. government (U.S. Treasury or GNMA) or
a government-sponsored agency (FNMA or FHLMC). Taking into consideration historical information and current and forecasted
conditions, we do not expect to incur any credit losses on these securities.
Investment securities that are not issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or a government-sponsored agency consist of both
securitized products, such as non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities, as well as non-securitized products, such as corporate
and municipal debt securities. A discounted cash flow approach is primarily used to determine the amount of the allowance required.
The estimates of expected cash flows are determined using macroeconomic sensitive models taking into consideration the reasonable
and supportable forecast period and scenarios discussed above. Additional factors unique to a specific security may also be taken into
consideration when estimating expected cash flows. The cash flows expected to be collected, after considering expected prepayments,
are discounted at the effective interest rate. For an available-for-sale security, the amount of the allowance is limited to the difference
between the amortized cost basis of the security and its estimated fair value.
See Note 3 Investment Securities for additional information about the investment securities portfolio.
100 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KAllowance for Loan and Lease Losses
Our pooled expected loss methodology is based upon the quantification of risk parameters, such as PD, LGD and EAD for a loan, loan
segment or lease. We also consider the impact of prepayments and amortization on contractual maturity in our expected loss estimates.
We use historical credit loss information, current borrower risk characteristics and forecasted economic variables for the reasonable
and supportable forecast period, coupled with analytical methods, to estimate these risk parameters by loan, loan segment or lease. PD,
LGD and EAD parameters are calculated for each forecasted scenario and the long run average period, and combined to generate
expected loss estimates by scenario. The following matrix provides key credit risk characteristics that we use to estimate these risk
parameters.
Loan Class Probability of Default Loss Given Default Exposure at Default
Commercial
Commercial and •For wholesale obligors: internal •Collateral type, collateral value, •Outstanding balances,
industrial / risk ratings based on borrower industry, size and outstanding commitment, contractual
Equipment lease characteristics and industry exposure for secured loans maturities and historical
financing •For retail small balance obligors: •Capital structure, industry and size prepayment experience for loans
credit score, delinquency status,
for unsecured loans •Current utilization and historical
and product type pre-default draw experience for
•For retail small balance obligors,
lines
product type and credit scores
Commercial real •Property performance metrics, •Property values and anticipated •Outstanding balances,
estate property type, market and risk pool liquidation costs commitment, contractual
for the forecast period maturities and historical
•For the long run average period, prepayment experience for loans
internal risk ratings based on
borrower characteristics
Consumer
Home equity / •Borrower credit scores, •Collateral characteristics, LTV and •Outstanding balances, contractual
Residential real delinquency status, origination costs to sell maturities and historical
estate vintage, LTV and contractual prepayment experience for loans
maturity •Current utilization and historical
pre-default draw experience for
lines
Automobile •Borrower credit scores, •New vs. used, LTV and borrower •Outstanding balances, contractual
delinquency status, borrower credit scores maturities and historical
income, LTV and contractual prepayment experience
maturity
Credit card •Borrower credit scores, •Borrower credit scores and credit •Pay-down curves are developed
delinquency status, utilization, line amount using a pro-rata method and
payment behavior and months on estimated using borrower
book behavior segments, payment
ratios and borrower credit scores
Education / •Net charge-off and pay-down rates by vintage are used to estimate expected losses in lieu of discrete risk
Other consumer parameters
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 101The following matrix describes the key economic variables that are consumed during our forecast period by loan class, as well as other
assumptions that are used for our reversion and long run average approaches.
Loan Class Forecast Period - Key Economic Variables Reversion Method Long Run Average
Commercial
Commercial and •GDP and Gross Domestic •Immediate reversion •Average parameters determined
industrial / Investment measures, employment based on internal and external
Equipment lease related variables and personal historical data
financing income and consumption measures •Modeled parameters using long
run economic conditions for retail
small balance obligors
Commercial real • CRE Price Index, unemployment • Immediate reversion • Average parameters determined
estate rates, GDP, corporate bond yield based on internal and external
and interest rates historical data
Consumer
Home equity / •Unemployment rates, HPI and •Straight-line over 3 years •Modeled parameters using long
Residential real interest rates run economic conditions
estate
Automobile •Unemployment rates, HPI, personal •Straight-line over 1 year •Average parameters determined
consumption expenditure and based on internal and external
Manheim used car index historical data
Credit card •Unemployment rates, personal •Straight-line over 2 years •Modeled parameters using long
consumption expenditure and HPI run economic conditions
Education / •Net charge-off and pay-down rates by vintage are used to estimate expected losses in lieu of discrete risk
Other consumer parameters
After the forecast period, we revert to the long run average over the reversion period noted above, which is the period between the end
of the forecast period and when losses are estimated to have completely reverted to the long run average.
Once we have developed a combined estimate of credit losses (i.e., for the forecast period, reversion period and long run average)
under each of the forecasted scenarios, we produce a probability-weighted credit loss estimate by loan class. We then add or deduct
any qualitative components and other adjustments, such as individually assessed loans, to produce the ALLL. See the Individually
Assessed Component and Qualitative Component discussions that follow in this Note 1 for additional information about those
adjustments.
Discounted Cash Flow
In addition to TDRs, we also use a discounted cash flow methodology for our home equity and residential real estate loan classes. We
determine effective interest rates considering contractual cash flows adjusted for estimated prepayments. Changes in the ALLL due to
the impact of the passage of time under the discounted cash flow estimate are recognized through the provision for credit losses.
Individually Assessed Component
Loans and leases that do not share similar risk characteristics with a pool of loans are individually assessed as follows:
• For commercial nonperforming loans greater than or equal to a defined dollar threshold, reserves are based on an analysis of
the present value of the loan’s expected future cash flows or the fair value of the collateral, if appropriate under our policy for
collateral dependent loans. Nonperforming commercial loans below the defined threshold, and accruing TDRs are reserved
for under a pooled basis.
• For consumer nonperforming loans classified as collateral dependent, charge-off and ALLL related to recovery of amounts
previously charged-off are evaluated through an analysis of the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell.
Qualitative Component
While our reserve methodologies strive to reflect all relevant credit risk factors, there continues to be uncertainty associated with, but
not limited to, potential imprecision in the estimation process due to the inherent time lag of obtaining information and normal
variations between expected and actual outcomes. We may hold additional reserves that are designed to provide coverage for losses
attributable to such risks. The ACL also takes into account factors that may not be directly measured in the determination of
individually assessed or pooled reserves. Such qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to:
102 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K• Industry concentrations and conditions,
• Changes in market conditions, including regulatory and legal requirements,
• Changes in the nature and volume of our portfolio,
• Recent credit quality trends,
• Recent loss experience in particular portfolios, including specific and unique events,
• Recent macroeconomic factors that may not be reflected in the forecast information,
• Limitations of available input data, including historical loss information and recent data such as collateral values,
• Model imprecision and limitations,
• Changes in lending policies and procedures, including changes in loss recognition and mitigation policies and procedures,
• Timing of available information.
See Note 4 Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses for additional information about our loan portfolio and the related
allowance.
Accrued Interest
When accrued interest is reversed or charged-off in a timely manner, the CECL standard provides a practical expedient to exclude
accrued interest from ACL measurement. We consider our nonaccrual and charge-off policies to be timely for all of our investment
securities, loans and leases, with the exception of consumer credit cards, education loans and certain unsecured consumer lines of
credit. We consider the length of time before nonaccrual/charge-off and the use of appropriate other triggering events for nonaccrual
and charge-offs in making this determination. Pursuant to these policy elections, we calculate reserves for accrued interest on credit
cards, education loans and certain unsecured consumer lines of credit, which are then included within the ALLL. See the Debt
Securities and Nonperforming Loans and Leases sections of this Note 1 for additional information on our nonaccrual and charge-off
policies.
Additionally, pursuant to our use of a discounted cash flow methodology in estimating credit losses for our home equity and
residential real estate loan classes, applicable reserves for accrued interest are also included within the ALLL for these loan classes.
Purchased Credit Deteriorated Loans or Securities
The allowance for PCD loans or securities is determined at the time of acquisition (including January 1, 2020 when certain purchased
impaired loans were exempted and transitioned to PCD upon adoption of CECL), as the estimated expected credit loss of the
outstanding balance or par value, based on the methodologies described previously for loans and securities. In accordance with CECL,
the allowance recognized at acquisition is added to the acquisition date purchase price to determine the asset’s amortized cost basis.
Allowance for Unfunded Lending Related Commitments
We maintain the allowance for unfunded lending related commitments on off-balance sheet credit exposures that are not
unconditionally cancelable (e.g., unfunded loan commitments, letters of credit and certain financial guarantees), at a level we believe
is appropriate as of the balance sheet date to absorb expected credit losses on these exposures. Other than the estimation of the
probability of funding, this reserve is estimated in a manner similar to the methodology used for determining reserves for loans and
leases. See the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses section of this Note 1 for the key credit risk characteristics for unfunded lending
related commitments. The allowance for unfunded lending related commitments is recorded as a liability on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Net adjustments to this reserve are included in the provision for credit losses.
See Note 4 Loans and Related Allowance for Credit Losses for additional information about this allowance.
Allowance for Other Financial Assets
We determine the allowance for other financial assets (e.g., trade receivables, servicing advances on PNC-owned loans, balances with
banks) considering historical loss information and other available indicators. In certain cases where there are no historical, current or
forecast indicators of an expected credit loss, we may estimate the reserve to be close to zero. As of December 31, 2022, the allowance
for other financial assets was immaterial.
Loans Held for Sale
We designate loans as held for sale when we have the intent and ability to sell them. At the time of designation to held for sale, any
ACL is reversed, and a valuation allowance for the shortfall between the amortized cost basis and the net realizable value is
recognized, excluding the amounts already charged off. Similarly, when loans are no longer considered held for sale, the valuation
allowance (net of writedowns) is reversed, and an allowance for credit losses is established, excluding the amounts already charged-
off. Write-downs on these loans (if required) are recorded as charge-offs through the valuation allowance. Adjustments to the
valuation allowance on held for sale loans are recognized in Other noninterest income.
We have elected to account for certain commercial and residential mortgage loans held for sale at fair value. The changes in the fair
value of commercial and residential mortgage loans are measured and recorded within Residential and Commercial mortgage within
Noninterest Income each period. See Note 15 Fair Value for additional information.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 103Interest income with respect to loans held for sale is accrued based on the principal amount outstanding and the loan’s contractual
interest rate.
In certain circumstances, loans designated as held for sale may be transferred to held for investment based on a change in strategy. We
transfer these loans at the lower of cost or estimated fair value; however, any loans originated or purchased for the held for sale
portfolio and for which the fair value option has been elected remain at fair value for the life of the loan.
Loan Sales, Loan Securitizations and Retained Interests
We recognize the sale of loans or other financial assets when the transferred assets are legally isolated from our creditors and the
appropriate accounting criteria are met. We have sold mortgage and other loans through securitization transactions. In a securitization,
financial assets are transferred into trusts or to SPEs in transactions to effectively legally isolate the assets from us.
In a securitization, the trust or SPE issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated securities backed or collateralized
by the assets sold to the trust. The senior classes of the asset-backed securities typically receive investment grade credit ratings at the
time of issuance. These ratings are generally achieved through the creation of lower-rated subordinated classes of asset-backed
securities, as well as subordinated or residual interests. In certain cases, we may retain a portion or all of the securities issued, interest-
only strips, one or more subordinated tranches, servicing rights and, in some cases, cash reserve accounts. Securitized loans are
removed from the balance sheet and a net gain or loss is recognized in Noninterest income at the time of initial sale. Gains or losses
recognized on the sale of the loans depend on the fair value of the loans sold and the retained interests at the date of sale. We generally
estimate the fair value of the retained interests based on the present value of future expected cash flows using assumptions as to
discount rates, interest rates, prepayment speeds, credit losses and servicing costs, if applicable.
With the exception of loan sales to certain U.S. government-chartered entities, our loan sales and securitizations are generally
structured without recourse to us except for representations and warranties and with no restrictions on the retained interests. We
originate, sell and service commercial mortgage loans under the FNMA DUS program. Under the provisions of the DUS program, we
participate in a loss-sharing arrangement with FNMA. When we are obligated for loss-sharing or recourse, our policy is to record such
liabilities initially at fair value and subsequently reserve for estimated losses in accordance with guidance contained in applicable
GAAP.
Variable Interest Entities
A VIE is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or any other legal structure used to conduct activities or hold assets
generally that either:
• Does not have equity investors with voting rights that can directly or indirectly make decisions about the entity’s most
significant economic activities through those voting rights or similar rights, or
• Has equity investors that do not provide sufficient equity for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support.
A VIE often holds financial assets, including loans or receivables, real estate or other property.
VIEs are assessed for consolidation under ASC 810 – Consolidation when we hold a variable interest in these entities. We consolidate
a VIE if we are its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is determined to be the party that meets both of the
following criteria: (i) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (ii) has
the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Upon
consolidation of a VIE, we recognize all of the VIE’s assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. On a quarterly basis, we determine whether any changes occurred requiring a reassessment of whether we are the primary
beneficiary of an entity.
See Note 5 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities for information about VIEs that we consolidate as well as
those that we do not consolidate but in which we hold a significant variable interest.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
We provide servicing under various loan servicing contracts for commercial and residential loans. These contracts are either purchased
in the open market or retained as part of a loan securitization or loan sale. All acquired or originated servicing rights are measured at
fair value. Fair value is based on the present value of the expected future net cash flows, including assumptions as to:
• Deposit balances and interest rates for escrow and commercial reserve earnings,
• Discount rates,
• Estimated prepayment speeds, and
• Estimated servicing costs.
104 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KWe measure commercial and residential MSRs at fair value in order to reduce any potential measurement mismatch between our
economic hedges and the MSRs. We manage the risk by hedging the fair value of MSRs with derivatives and securities which are
expected to increase in value when the value of the servicing right declines. Changes in the fair value of MSRs are recognized as
gains/(losses). The fair value of these servicing rights is estimated by using a discounted cash flow valuation model which calculates
the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration actual and expected mortgage loan prepayment
rates, discount rates, servicing costs and other factors which are determined based on current market conditions. See Note 6 Goodwill
and Mortgage Servicing Rights for additional information.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising from business acquisitions represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements in the business
acquired. At least annually, in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances have changed significantly from
the annual test date, management performs the goodwill impairment test at a reporting unit level.
PNC may first perform a qualitative analysis to evaluate whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount. If, after considering all relevant events and circumstances, PNC determines it is not more-likely-than-not that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing a quantitative impairment test is not necessary. If
PNC elects to bypass the qualitative analysis, or concludes via qualitative analysis that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. Inputs are generated and used in
calculating the fair value of the reporting unit, which is compared to its carrying amount. The fair value of our reporting units is
determined by using discounted cash flows and/or market comparability methodologies. If the fair value is greater than the carrying
amount, then the reporting unit’s goodwill is deemed not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an entity
should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the reporting unit’s fair
value. The loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. See Note 6 Goodwill and
Mortgage Servicing Rights for additional information.
Leases
Lessor Arrangements
We provide financing for various types of equipment, including aircraft, energy and power systems and vehicles through a variety of
lease arrangements. Finance leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments plus estimated residual value of the leased
equipment, less unearned income. Leveraged leases, a form of financing leases, are carried net of nonrecourse debt. We recognize
income over the term of the lease using the constant effective yield method. Lease residual values are reviewed for impairment at least
annually. Gains or losses on the sale of leased assets are included in Other noninterest income. Valuation adjustments on operating
lease residuals are included in Other noninterest expense while valuation adjustments on the net investment of a direct financing or
sales-type lease are included in Provision for credit losses.
Lessee Arrangements
We lease retail branches, datacenters, office space, land and equipment under operating and finance leases. Under ASC 842, we
elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and nonlease components of real estate leases and leases of advertising assets,
such as signage, as a single lease component. For other leased asset classes, lease and nonlease components of new lease agreements
are accounted for separately. In addition, we elected the practical expedient to not apply the recognition requirements under the
standard to short-term leases. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet, as we recognize
lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Generally, we have elected to use the Overnight Indexed
Swap rate corresponding to the term of the lease at the lease measurement date as our incremental borrowing rate to measure the right-
of-use-asset and lease liability.
See Note 7 Leases for additional information on our leasing arrangements.
Depreciation and Amortization
For financial reporting purposes, we depreciate premises and equipment, net of salvage value, principally using the straight-line
method over their estimated useful lives.
We use estimated useful lives for furniture and equipment ranging from one to 10 years, and depreciate buildings over an estimated
useful life of up to 40 years. We amortize leasehold improvements over their estimated useful lives of up to 15 years or the respective
lease terms, whichever is shorter.
We purchase, as well as internally develop and customize, certain software to enhance or perform internal business functions.
Software development costs incurred in the planning and post-development project stages are charged to Noninterest expense. Costs
associated with designing software configuration and interfaces, installation, coding programs and testing systems are capitalized and
amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from one to 10 years.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 105We review the remaining useful lives and carrying values of premises and equipment to determine whether an event has occurred that
would indicate a change in useful life is warranted or if any impairment exists.
Other Comprehensive Income
Other comprehensive income, on an after-tax basis, primarily consists of unrealized gains or losses on available for sale debt
securities, unrealized gains or losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and changes in plan assets and benefit obligations
of pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Details of each component are included in Note 13 Other Comprehensive Income.
Treasury Stock
We record common stock purchased for treasury at cost. At the date of subsequent reissue, the treasury stock account is reduced by the
cost of such stock on the first-in, first-out basis.
Earnings Per Common Share
Basic earnings per common share is calculated using the two-class method to determine income attributable to common shareholders.
Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are considered
participating securities under the two-class method. Distributed dividends and dividend equivalents related to participating securities
and an allocation of undistributed net income to participating securities reduce the amount of income attributable to common
shareholders. In a period with a loss, no allocation will be made to the participating securities, as they do not have a contractual
obligation to absorb losses. Income attributable to common shareholders is then divided by the weighted-average common shares
outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per common share is calculated under the more dilutive of either the treasury method or the two-class method. For
the diluted calculation, we increase the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding by the assumed conversion
of outstanding convertible preferred stock from the beginning of the year or date of issuance, if later, and the number of shares of
common stock that would be issued assuming the exercise of stock options and warrants and the issuance of incentive shares using the
treasury stock method. These adjustments to the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding are made only
when such adjustments will dilute earnings per common share. For periods in which there is a loss from continuing operations, any
potential dilutive shares will be anti-dilutive. In this scenario, no potential dilutive shares will be included in the continuing operations,
discontinued operations or total earnings per common share calculations, even if overall net income is reported. See Note 14 Earnings
Per Share for additional information.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The fair value of financial instruments and the methods and assumptions used in estimating fair value amounts and financial assets and
liabilities for which fair value was elected are detailed in Note 15 Fair Value.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We use a variety of financial derivatives to both mitigate exposure to market (primarily interest rate) and credit risks inherent in our
business activities, as well as to facilitate customer risk management activities. We manage these risks as part of our asset and liability
management process and through credit policies and procedures.
We recognize all derivative instruments at fair value as either Other assets or Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and
the related cash flows in the Operating Activities section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Adjustments for counterparty
credit risk are included in the determination of fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument
depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a cash flow or net investment hedging relationship. For all other
derivatives, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings.
We utilize a net presentation for derivative instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet taking into consideration the effects of
legally enforceable master netting agreements. Cash collateral exchanged with counterparties is also netted against the applicable
derivative exposures by offsetting obligations to return, or general rights to reclaim, cash collateral against the fair values of the net
derivatives being collateralized.
For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as accounting hedges, we designate the hedging instrument, based on
the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation.
We formally document the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective
and strategy, before undertaking an accounting hedge. To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivatives and related hedged items must
be designated as a hedge at inception of the hedge relationship. In addition, a derivative must be highly effective at reducing the risk
associated with the exposure being hedged. For accounting hedge relationships, we formally assess, both at the inception of the hedge
106 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-Kand on an ongoing basis, if the derivatives are highly effective in offsetting designated changes in the fair value or cash flows of the
hedged item. If it is determined that the derivative instrument is not highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. We assess
effectiveness using statistical regression analysis. Where the critical terms of the derivative and hedged item match, effectiveness may
be assessed qualitatively.
For derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability
attributable to a particular risk, such as changes in benchmark interest rates), changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are
recognized in earnings and offset by also recognizing in earnings the changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the
hedged risk. To the extent the change in fair value of the derivative does not offset the change in fair value of the hedged item, the
difference is reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows), the gain or loss
on derivatives is reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified to income in the same period or periods during which
the hedged cash flows affect earnings and recorded in the same income statement line item as the hedged cash flows. For derivatives
designated as a hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, the gain or loss on the derivatives is reported as a component of AOCI.
We discontinue hedge accounting when it is determined that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge; the derivative
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised; or the derivative is de-designated as a fair value or cash flow hedge or, for a cash flow
hedge, it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period.
We purchase or originate financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative. For financial instruments not measured at fair
value with changes in fair value reported in earnings, we assess, at inception of the transaction, if the economic characteristics of the
embedded derivative are clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and whether a separate
instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would be a derivative. If the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely
related to the host contract and meets the definition of a derivative, the embedded derivative is recorded separately from the host
contract with changes in fair value recorded in earnings, unless we elect to account for the hybrid instrument at fair value.
We enter into commitments to originate residential and commercial mortgage loans for sale. We also enter into commitments to
purchase or sell commercial and residential real estate loans. These commitments are accounted for as free-standing derivatives which
are recorded at fair value in Other assets or Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Any gain or loss from the change in
fair value after the inception of the commitment is recognized in Noninterest income.
See Note 16 Financial Derivatives for additional information.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws
that we expect will apply at the time when we believe the differences will reverse. Changes in tax rates and tax law are accounted for
in the period of enactment. Thus, at the enactment date, deferred taxes are remeasured and the change is recognized in Income Tax
expense. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires an assessment to determine the realization of such assets. Realization refers to
the incremental benefit achieved through the reduction in future taxes payable or refunds receivable from the deferred tax assets,
assuming that the underlying deductible differences and carryforwards are the last items to enter into the determination of future
taxable income. We establish a valuation allowance for tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized, based
upon all available positive and negative evidence.
We use the proportional amortization method for LIHTC investments, whereby the associated investment tax credits are recognized as
a reduction to tax expense. We use the deferral method of accounting for all other tax credit investments. Under this method, the
investment tax credits are recognized as a reduction to the related asset.
See Note 19 Income Taxes for additional information.
Revenue Recognition
We earn interest and noninterest income from various sources, including:
• Lending,
• Securities portfolio,
• Asset management,
• Loan sales, loan securitizations, and servicing,
• Brokerage services,
• Sale of loans and securities,
• Certain private equity activities, and
• Securities, derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 107In addition, we earn fees and commissions from:
• Issuing loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees,
• Deposit account services,
• Merchant services,
• Selling various insurance products,
• Providing treasury management services including money transfer services,
• Providing merger and acquisition advisory and related services,
• Debit and credit card transactions, and
• Facilitating and participating in certain capital markets transactions.
Service charges on deposit accounts are recognized when earned. Brokerage fees and gains and losses on the sale of securities and
certain derivatives are recognized on a trade-date basis.
We record private equity income or loss based on changes in the valuation of the underlying investments or when we dispose of our
interest.
We recognize gain/(loss) on changes in the fair value of certain financial instruments where we have elected the fair value option.
These financial instruments include certain commercial and residential mortgage loans originated for sale, certain residential mortgage
portfolio loans and resale agreements. We also recognize gain/(loss) on changes in the fair value of residential and commercial MSRs.
We recognize revenue from servicing residential and commercial mortgages for others as earned based on the specific contractual
terms. These revenues are reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in the line item Residential and commercial mortgage. We
recognize revenue from securities, derivatives and foreign exchange customer-related trading, as well as securities underwriting
activities, as these transactions occur or as services are provided. We generally recognize gains from the sale of loans upon meeting
the derecognition criteria for transfers of financial assets. Mortgage revenue recognized is reported net of mortgage repurchase
reserves.
For the fee-based revenue within the scope of ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognized when or as
those services are transferred to the customer. See Note 24 Fee-Based Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional
information related to revenue within the scope of ASC 606.
Discontinued Operations
A disposal of an asset or business that meets the criteria for held for sale classification is reported as discontinued operations when the
disposal represents a strategic shift that has had, or will have a major effect on our operating results. We report an asset as held for sale
when management has approved or received approval to sell the asset and is committed to a formal plan, the asset is available for
immediate sale, the asset is being actively marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the ensuing year and certain other specified
criteria are met. An asset classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to
sell. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, the asset is written down to its fair value upon the held for sale
designation.
When presenting discontinued operations, assets classified as held for sale are segregated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
commencing in the period in which the asset meets all of the held for sale criteria described above and prior periods are recast. The
results of discontinued operations are reported in discontinued operations in the Consolidated Income Statement for current and prior
periods commencing in the period in which the asset or business is either disposed of or is classified as held for sale, including any
gain or loss recognized on the sale or adjustment of the carrying amount to fair value less cost to sell.
108 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KRecently Adopted Accounting Standards
Accounting Standards
Update Description Financial Statement Impact
Reference Rate • Provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying • ASU 2020-04 was adopted March 12, 2020. ASU 2021-01
Reform - ASU generally accepted accounting principles to contracts, was retrospectively adopted October 1, 2020. ASU
2020-04 hedging relationships and other transactions that 2022-06 was adopted upon issuance.
reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to • During the fourth quarter of 2020, we elected to apply
Issued March 2020 be discontinued because of reference rate reform
certain optional expedients for contract modifications and
(codified in ASC 848).
hedging relationships to derivative instruments impacted
Reference Rate
• Includes optional expedients related to contract
Reform Scope - ASU by the market-wide discounting transition. These optional
modifications that allow an entity to account for
2021-01 expedients remove the requirement to remeasure contract
modifications (if certain criteria are met) as if the
modifications or dedesignate hedging relationships due to
modifications were only minor (assets within the scope
Issued January 2021 of ASC 310, Receivables), were not substantial (assets reference rate reform. The elections made in the fourth
within the scope of ASC 470, Debt) and/or did not quarter of 2020 apply only to derivative instruments
Reference Rate result in remeasurements or reclassifications (assets impacted by the market-wide discounting transition, not
Reform Deferral of
within the scope of ASC 842, Leases, and other all derivative instruments.
Sunset Date – ASU
Topics) of the existing contract.
2022-06 • During the first quarter of 2021, we elected to apply certain
• Includes optional expedients related to hedging optional expedients to derivative instruments that were
Issued December 2022 relationships within the scope of ASC 815, Derivatives modified in the first quarter due to the adoption of
& Hedging, whereby changes to the critical terms of a
fallback language recommended by the ISDA to address
hedging relationship do not require dedesignation if
certain criteria are met. In addition, potential sources of the anticipated cessation of LIBOR. These optional
ineffectiveness as a result of reference rate reform may expedients remove the requirement to remeasure contract
be disregarded when performing some effectiveness modifications or dedesignate hedging relationships due to
assessments. reference rate reform.
• Includes optional expedients and exceptions for contract • During the fourth quarter of 2021, we elected to apply
modifications and hedge accounting that apply to certain optional expedients for contract modifications to
derivative instruments impacted by the market-wide
receivables modified in the fourth quarter due to the
discounting transition.
cessation of 1-week and 2-month USD LIBOR tenors and
• Guidance in these ASUs are effective as of March 12, non-USD Interbank Offered Rates. These optional
2020 through December 31, 2024.
expedients remove the requirement to assess whether the
contract modification was more-than-minor in accordance
with ASC 310. We also elected to apply certain optional
expedients related to assessing hedge effectiveness to our
cash flow hedge relationships affected by reference rate
reform.
• We did not make any additional elections for 2022. We
expect to continue to elect various optional expedients for
contract modifications and hedge relationships affected by
reference rate reform through the effective date of this
guidance.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 109Accounting Standards
Update Description Financial Statement Impact
Portfolio Layer • Required effective date of January 1, 2023; early Subsequent event
Hedging - adoption is permitted. • We adopted ASU 2022-01 on January 1, 2023. The adoption
ASU 2022-01 of this guidance had no impact on our consolidated results
• Permits entities to expand their use of the portfolio layer
of operations or our consolidated financial position, as we
Issued March 2022 method (previously the last-of-layer method) for fair
had no existing hedge relationships impacted by the ASU
value hedges of interest rate risk.
as of the adoption date. The guidance will be applied
• Expands the scope to allow nonprepayable financial
prospectively to any new portfolio layer method hedging
assets to be included in a closed portfolio hedge using
relationships entered into subsequent to January 1, 2023.
the portfolio layer method.
• Allows multiple hedged layers to be designated for a
single closed portfolio of financial assets or one or
more beneficial interests secured by a portfolio of
financial instruments.
• Provides additional guidance on accounting for fair value
hedge basis adjustments associated with portfolio layer
hedges, generally requiring these adjustments to be
maintained at the closed portfolio level and clarifying
how these amounts should be disclosed.
• Requires a prospective transition approach for
designation of multiple hedged layers of a single closed
portfolio, a modified retrospective transition approach
for hedge basis adjustments under the portfolio layer
method, and the option of a prospective or
retrospective transition approach for disclosures.
• Allows for an election to transfer debt securities
classified as held to maturity to available for sale if the
portfolio layer hedging method is applied to those
securities; the election must be made within 30 days of
adoption.
Accounting Standards
Update Description Financial Statement Impact
Troubled Debt • Required effective date of January 1, 2023; early Subsequent event
Restructurings and adoption is permitted. • We adopted ASU 2022-02 on January 1, 2023 using a
Vintage Disclosures -
ASU 2022-02 • Eliminates the accounting guidance for TDRs and modified retrospective transition approach for the
requires an entity to apply the loan refinancing and amendments related to the recognition and measurement
Issued March 2022 restructuring guidance to determine whether a of TDRs.
modification results in a new loan or a continuation of • This standard will not materially impact our consolidated
an existing loan. results of operations or our consolidated financial
position. The amendments require changes to disclosures
• Eliminates the requirement to use a discounted cash flow
on information related to loan modifications to borrowers
approach to measure the allowance for credit losses for
experiencing financial difficulty and current-period gross
TDRs.
charge-offs.
• Enhances disclosure requirements for certain loan
refinancings and restructurings by creditors when a
borrower is experiencing financial difficulty.
• Requires disclosure of current-period gross charge-offs
by year of origination for financing receivables and net
investments in leases within the scope of CECL.
• Requires a prospective transition approach to all
amendments except those related to the recognition and
measurement of TDRs (which allow a modified
retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-
effect adjustment to retained earnings in the period of
adoption).
110 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K
NOTE 15 FAIR VALUE
Fair Value Measurement
We measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset
or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability on the measurement date and is determined using an exit price in the principal or
most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. The fair value hierarchy
established by GAAP requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs when measuring fair value. The three levels of the fair
value hierarchy are:
• Level 1: Fair value is determined using a quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and
liabilities may include debt securities, equity securities and listed derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange
market, and certain U.S. Treasury securities that are actively traded in over-the-counter markets.
• Level 2: Fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or
liabilities, either directly or indirectly. The majority of Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities and listed
derivative contracts with quoted prices that are traded in markets that are not active, and certain debt and equity securities and
over-the-counter derivative contracts whose fair value is determined using a pricing model without significant unobservable
inputs.
• Level 3: Fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models and discounted
cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques for which the significant valuation inputs are not observable and the
determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
We characterize active markets as those where transaction volumes are sufficient to provide objective pricing information, with
reasonably narrow bid/ask spreads, and where dealer quotes received do not vary widely and are based on current information.
Inactive markets are typically characterized by low transaction volumes, price quotations that vary substantially among market
participants or are not based on current information, wide bid/ask spreads, a significant increase in implied liquidity risk premiums,
yields, or performance indicators for observed transactions or quoted prices compared to historical periods, a significant decline or
absence of a market for new issuance, or any combination of the above factors. We also consider nonperformance risks, including
credit risk, as part of our valuation methodology for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value, by their nature, result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Assets and
liabilities classified within Level 3 inherently require the use of various assumptions, estimates and judgments when measuring their
fair value. As observable market activity is commonly not available to use when estimating the fair value of Level 3 assets and
liabilities, we must estimate fair value using various modeling techniques. These techniques include the use of a variety of inputs/
assumptions including credit quality, liquidity, interest rates or other relevant inputs across the entire population of our Level 3 assets
and liabilities. Changes in the significant underlying factors or assumptions (either an increase or a decrease) in any of these areas
underlying our estimates may have resulted in a significant increase/decrease in the Level 3 fair value measurement of a particular
asset and/or liability from period to period.
Any models used to determine fair values or to validate dealer quotes are subject to review and independent testing as part of our
model validation and internal control testing processes. Our Model Risk Management Group reviews significant models on at least an
annual basis. In addition, the Valuation Committee approves valuation methodologies and reviews the results of independent valuation
reviews and processes for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Residential Mortgage Loans Held for Sale
We account for certain residential mortgage loans originated for sale at fair value on a recurring basis. The election of the fair value
option aligns the accounting for the residential mortgages with the related hedges. Residential mortgage loans are valued based on
quoted market prices, where available, prices for other traded mortgage loans with similar characteristics, and purchase commitments
and bid information received from market participants. The prices are adjusted as necessary to include the embedded servicing value
in the loans and to take into consideration the specific characteristics of certain loans that are priced based on the pricing of similar
loans. These adjustments represent unobservable inputs to the valuation but are not considered significant given the relative
insensitivity of the value to changes in these inputs to the fair value of the loans. Accordingly, the majority of residential mortgage
loans held for sale are classified as Level 2.
Commercial Mortgage Loans Held for Sale
We account for certain commercial mortgage loans classified as held for sale in whole loan transactions at fair value. We determine
the fair value of commercial mortgage loans held for sale based upon discounted cash flows. Fair value is determined using sale
valuation assumptions that management believes a market participant would use in pricing the loans.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 145For loans to be sold to agencies with servicing retained, the fair value is adjusted for the estimated servicing cash flows, which is an
unobservable input. This adjustment is not considered significant given the relative insensitivity of the value to changes in the input to
the fair value of the loans. Accordingly, commercial mortgage loans held for sale to agencies are classified as Level 2.
Valuation assumptions may include observable inputs based on the benchmark interest rate swap curve, whole loan sales and agency
sales transactions. The significant unobservable input for commercial mortgage loans held for sale, excluding those to be sold to
agencies, is management’s assumption of the spread applied to the benchmark rate. The spread over the benchmark curve includes
management’s assumptions of the impact of credit and liquidity risk. Significant increases (decreases) in the spread applied to the
benchmark would have resulted in a significantly lower (higher) asset value. The wide range of the spread over the benchmark curve is
due to the varying risk and underlying property characteristics within our portfolio. Based on the significance of the unobservable
input, we classified this portfolio as Level 3.
Securities Available for Sale and Trading Securities
Securities accounted for at fair value include both the available for sale and trading portfolios. We primarily use prices obtained from
pricing services, dealer quotes or recent trades to determine the fair value of securities. The majority of securities were priced by third-
party vendors. The third-party vendors use a variety of methods when pricing securities that incorporate relevant market data to arrive
at an estimate of what a buyer in the marketplace would pay for a security under current market conditions. We monitor and validate
the reliability of vendor pricing on an ongoing basis through pricing methodology reviews, including detailed reviews of the
assumptions and inputs used by the vendor to price individual securities, and through price validation testing. Securities not priced by
one of our pricing vendors may be valued using a dealer quote, which are also subject to price validation testing. Price validation
testing is performed independent of the risk-taking function and involves corroborating the prices received from third-party vendors
and dealers with prices from another third party or through other sources, such as internal valuations or sales of similar securities.
Security prices are also validated through actual cash settlement upon sale of a security.
Securities are classified within the fair value hierarchy after considering the activity level in the market for the security type and the
observability of the inputs used to determine the fair value. When a quoted price in an active market exists for the identical security,
this price is used to determine fair value and the security is classified within Level 1 of the hierarchy. Level 1 securities include U.S.
Treasury securities.
When a quoted price in an active market for the identical security is not available, fair value is estimated using either an alternative
market approach, such as a recent trade or matrix pricing, or an income approach, such as a discounted cash flow pricing model. If the
inputs to the valuation are based primarily on market observable information, then the security is classified within Level 2 of the
hierarchy. Level 2 securities include agency debt securities, agency residential mortgage-backed securities, agency and non-agency
commercial mortgage-backed securities, certain non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities
collateralized by non-mortgage-related corporate and consumer loans, and other debt securities. Level 2 securities are predominantly
priced by third parties, either by a pricing vendor or dealer.
In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to the valuation, securities are classified within
Level 3 of the hierarchy. Securities classified as Level 3 consist primarily of non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-
backed securities collateralized by first- and second-lien residential mortgage loans. Fair value for these securities is primarily
estimated using pricing obtained from third-party vendors. In some cases, fair value is estimated using a dealer quote, by reference to
prices of securities of a similar vintage and collateral type or by reference to recent sales of similar securities. Market activity for these
security types is limited with little price transparency. As a result, these securities are generally valued by the third-party vendor using
a discounted cash flow approach that incorporates significant unobservable inputs and observable market activity where available.
Significant inputs to the valuation include prepayment projections and credit loss assumptions (default rate and loss severity) and
discount rates that are deemed representative of current market conditions. Significant increases (decreases) in any of those
assumptions in isolation would have resulted in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement.
Certain infrequently traded debt securities within other debt securities available for sale and trading securities are also classified in
Level 3 and are included in the Insignificant Level 3 assets, net of liabilities line item in Table 88. The significant unobservable inputs
used to estimate the fair value of these securities include an estimate of expected credit losses and a discount for liquidity risk. These
inputs are incorporated into the fair value measurement by either increasing the spread over the benchmark curve or by applying a
credit and liquidity discount to the par value of the security. Significant increases (decreases) in credit and/or liquidity risk could have
resulted in a significantly lower (higher) fair value estimate.
Loans
Loans accounted for at fair value consist primarily of residential mortgage loans. These loans are generally valued similarly to
residential mortgage loans held for sale and are classified as Level 2. However, similar to residential mortgage loans held for sale, if
these loans are repurchased and unsalable, they are classified as Level 3. In addition, repurchased VA loans, where only a portion of
the principal will be reimbursed, are classified as Level 3. The fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow calculation based
on our historical loss rate. We have elected to account for certain home equity lines of credit at fair value. These loans are classified as
146 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KLevel 3. Significant inputs to the valuation of these loans include credit and liquidity discount, cumulative default rate, loss severity
and gross discount rate and are deemed representative of current market conditions. Significant increases (decreases) in any of these
assumptions would have resulted in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement.
Equity Investments
Equity investments includes money market mutual funds as well as direct and indirect private equity investments. Money market
mutual funds are valued based on quoted prices in active markets for identical securities and classified within Level 1 of the hierarchy.
The valuation of direct and indirect private equity investments requires significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted
market prices, inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such investments. Various valuation techniques are used for direct
investments, including multiples of adjusted earnings of the entity, independent appraisals, anticipated financing and sale transactions
with third parties, or the pricing used to value the entity in a recent financing transaction. A multiple of adjusted earnings calculation is
the valuation technique utilized most frequently and is the most significant unobservable input used in such calculation. Significant
decreases (increases) in the multiple of earnings could have resulted in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement. Direct
equity investments are classified as Level 3.
Indirect investments are not redeemable; however, we receive distributions over the life of the partnerships from liquidation of the
underlying investments by the investee, which we expect to occur over the next 12 years. We value indirect investments in private
equity funds using the NAV practical expedient as provided in the financial statements that we receive from fund managers. Due to the
time lag in our receipt of the financial information and based on a review of investments and valuation techniques applied, adjustments
to the manager-provided value are made when available recent portfolio company information or market information indicates a
significant change in value from that provided by the manager of the fund. Indirect investments valued using NAV are not classified in
the fair value hierarchy.
Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs)
MSRs are carried at fair value on a recurring basis. Assumptions incorporated into the MSRs valuation model reflect management’s
best estimate of factors that a market participant would use in valuing the MSRs. Although sales of MSRs do occur and can offer some
market insight, MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices so the precise terms and conditions of sales
are not available.
Residential MSRs
As a benchmark for the reasonableness of our residential MSRs fair value, we obtained opinions of value from independent brokers.
These brokers provided a range (+/-10 bps) based upon their own discounted cash flow calculations of our portfolio that reflect
conditions in the secondary market and any recently executed servicing transactions. We compare our internally-developed residential
MSRs value to the ranges of values received from the brokers. If our residential MSRs fair value falls outside of the brokers’ ranges,
management will assess whether a valuation adjustment is warranted. For the periods presented, our residential MSRs value did not
fall outside of the brokers’ ranges.
Due to the nature of the unobservable valuation inputs, residential MSRs are classified as Level 3. The significant unobservable inputs
used in the fair value measurement of residential MSRs are constant prepayment rates and spread over the benchmark curve.
Significant increases (decreases) in prepayment rates and spread over the benchmark curve would have resulted in lower (higher) fair
market value of residential MSRs.
Commercial MSRs
The fair value of commercial MSRs is estimated by using a discounted cash flow model incorporating unobservable inputs for
assumptions such as constant prepayment rates, discount rates and other factors. Due to the nature of the unobservable valuation inputs
and the limited availability of market pricing, commercial MSRs are classified as Level 3. Significant increases (decreases) in constant
prepayment rates and discount rates would have resulted in significantly lower (higher) commercial MSR value determined based on
current market conditions and expectations.
Financial Derivatives
Exchange-traded derivatives are valued using quoted market prices and are classified as Level 1. The majority of derivatives that we
enter into are executed over-the-counter and are valued using internal models. These derivatives are primarily classified as Level 2, as
the readily observable market inputs to these models are validated to external sources, such as industry pricing services, or are
corroborated through recent trades, dealer quotes, yield curves, implied volatility or other market-related data. Level 2 financial
derivatives are primarily estimated using observable benchmark interest rate swaps to construct projected discounted cash flows.
Financial derivatives that are priced using significant management judgment or assumptions are classified as Level 3. Unobservable
inputs related to interest rate contracts include probability of funding of residential mortgage loan commitments and estimated
servicing cash flows of commercial and residential mortgage loan commitments. Probability of default and loss severity are the
significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of risk participation agreements. The fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities
related to these interest rate contract financial derivatives as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 are included in the Insignificant Level 3
assets, net of liabilities line item in Table 88 of this Note 15.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 147In connection with the sales of portions of our Visa Class B common shares, we entered into swap agreements with the purchasers of
the shares to retain any future risk of decreases in the conversion rate of Class B common shares to Class A common shares resulting
from increases in the escrow funded by Visa to pay for the costs of resolution of the pending interchange litigation (see Note 21 Legal
Proceedings). These swaps also require PNC to make periodic payments based on the market price of the Class A common shares at a
fixed rate of interest (in certain cases subject to step-up provisions) until the Visa litigation is resolved. An increase in the estimated
length of litigation resolution date, a decrease in the estimated conversion rate, or an increase in the estimated growth rate of the Class
A share price would have had a negative impact on the fair value of the swaps and vice versa.
The fair values of our derivatives include a credit valuation adjustment to reflect our own and our counterparties’ nonperformance risk.
Our credit valuation adjustment is computed using credit default swap spreads, in conjunction with internal historical recovery
observations.
Other Assets and Liabilities
Other assets held at fair value on a recurring basis primarily include assets related to PNC’s deferred compensation and supplemental
incentive savings plans.
The assets related to PNC’s deferred compensation and supplemental incentive savings plans primarily consist of a prepaid forward
contract referencing an amount of shares of PNC stock, equity mutual funds and fixed income funds, and are valued based on the
underlying investments. These assets are valued either by reference to the market price of PNC’s stock or by using the quoted market
prices for investments other than PNC’s stock and are included in Levels 1 and 2.
All Level 3 other assets and liabilities are included in the Insignificant Level 3 assets, net of liabilities line item in Table 88 in this
Note 15.
Other Borrowed Funds
Other borrowed funds primarily consist of U.S. Treasury securities sold short which are classified as Level 1. Other borrowed funds
also includes the related liability for certain repurchased loans for which we have elected the fair value option and are classified as
either Level 2 or Level 3, consistent with the level classification of the corresponding loans. All Level 3 amounts are included in the
Insignificant Level 3 assets, net of liabilities line item in Table 88 in this Note 15.
148 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KThe following table summarizes our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including instruments for which
we have elected the fair value option:
Table 86: Fair Value Measurements – Recurring Basis Summary
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Total Total
In millions Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value
Assets
Residential mortgage loans held for sale $ 411 $ 243 $ 654 $ 1,221 $ 81 $ 1,302
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale 243 33 276 526 49 575
Securities available for sale
U.S. Treasury and government agencies $ 8,108 262 8,370 $ 41,873 4,291 46,164
Residential mortgage-backed
Agency 28,823 28,823 67,632 67,632
Non-agency 819 819 61 1,097 1,158
Commercial mortgage-backed
Agency 1,675 1,675 1,773 1,773
Non-agency 1,253 3 1,256 3,433 3 3,436
Asset-backed 5 124 129 6,246 163 6,409
Other 3,032 55 3,087 4,895 69 4,964
Total securities available for sale 8,108 35,050 1,001 44,159 41,873 88,331 1,332 131,536
Loans 541 769 1,310 617 884 1,501
Equity investments (a) 1,173 1,778 3,147 1,373 1,680 3,231
Residential mortgage servicing rights 2,310 2,310 1,078 1,078
Commercial mortgage servicing rights 1,113 1,113 740 740
Trading securities (b) 798 1,168 1,966 250 1,601 1,851
Financial derivatives (b) (c) 16 3,747 5 3,768 5 5,109 38 5,152
Other assets 352 80 432 404 114 518
Total assets (d) $ 10,447 $ 41,240 $ 7,252 $ 59,135 $ 43,905 $ 97,519 $ 5,882 $ 147,484
Liabilities
Other borrowed funds $ 1,230 $ 232 $ 4 $ 1,466 $ 725 $ 45 $ 3 $ 773
Financial derivatives (c) (e) 4 7,491 123 7,618 3,285 285 3,570
Other liabilities 294 294 175 175
Total liabilities (f) $ 1,234 $ 7,723 $ 421 $ 9,378 $ 725 $ 3,330 $ 463 $ 4,518
(a) Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy.
(b) Included in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(c) Amounts at December 31, 2022 and 2021 are presented gross and are not reduced by the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow us to net positive
and negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparty. See Note 16 Financial Derivatives for additional information related to derivative
offsetting.
(d) Total assets at fair value as a percentage of total consolidated assets was 11% and 26% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Level 3 assets as a percentage of total
assets at fair value was 12% and 4% as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Level 3 assets as a percentage of total consolidated assets was 1% at both
December 31, 2022 and 2021.
(e) Included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(f) Total liabilities at fair value as a percentage of total consolidated liabilities was 2% and 1% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Level 3 liabilities as a percentage
of total liabilities at fair value was 4% and 10% as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total consolidated liabilities was less
than 1% at both December 31, 2022 and 2021.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 149Reconciliations of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs for 2022 and 2021 are as
follows:
Table 87: Reconciliation of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Unrealized
Total realized / unrealized gains / losses for
gains or losses for the the period
period (a) on assets and
liabilities held on
Fair Included Fair Consolidated
Value in Other Transfers Transfers Value Balance Sheet at
Level 3 Instruments Only Dec. 31, Included in comprehensive into out of Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2022
In millions 2021 Earnings income (b) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Level 3 Level 3 2022 (a) (c)
Assets
Residential mortgage
loans held for sale $ 81 $ (5) $ 226 $ (34) $ (13) $ 29 $ (41) (d) $ 243 $ (5)
Commercial mortgage
loans held for sale 49 (6) (10) 33 (6)
Securities available for
sale
Residential mortgage-
backed non-agency 1,097 22 $ (108) (192) 819
Commercial mortgage-
backed non-agency 3 3
Asset-backed 163 2 (18) (23) 124
Other 69 6 (20) 55
Total securities
available for sale 1,332 24 (126) 6 (235) 1,001
Loans 884 23 55 (10) (164) (19) (d) 769 23
Equity investments 1,680 445 291 (772) 134 (e) 1,778 237
Residential mortgage
servicing rights 1,078 509 897 $ 57 (231) 2,310 509
Commercial mortgage
servicing rights 740 473 46 62 (208) 1,113 473
Financial derivatives 38 (6) 8 (35) 5 19
Total assets $ 5,882 $ 1,457 $ (126) $ 1,529 $ (816) $ 119 $ (896) $ 163 $ (60) $ 7,252 $ 1,250
Liabilities
Other borrowed funds $ 3 $ 7 $ (6) $ 4
Financial derivatives 285 $ 49 $ 14 (225) 123 $ 62
Other liabilities 175 77 $ 32 876 (866) 294 66
Total liabilities $ 463 $ 126 $ 32 $ 14 $ 883 $ (1,097) $ 421 $ 128
Net gains (losses) $ 1,331 (f) $ 1,122 (g)
150 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K(Continued from previous page)
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Total realized / unrealized Unrealized
gains or losses for the gains / losses for
period (a) the period on
assets and
liabilities held on
Fair Included in Impact Fair Consolidated
Value Included Other Transfers Transfers from Value Balance Sheet at
Level 3 Instruments Only Dec. 31, in comprehensive into out of BBVA Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2021
In millions 2020 Earnings income (b) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements Level 3 Level 3 Acquisition 2021 (a) (c)
Assets
Residential mortgage
loans held for sale $ 163 $ (1) $ 47 $ (83) $ (41) $ 18 $ (22) (d) $ 81 $ (1)
Commercial mortgage
loans held for sale 57 (6) (2) 49 (1)
Other consumer loans
held for sale (256) $ 256
Securities available for
sale
Residential mortgage-
backed non-agency 1,365 37 $ 6 (311) 1,097
Commercial mortgage-
backed non-agency 11 (8) 3
Asset-backed 199 2 9 (47) 163
Other 72 1 6 (10) 69
Total securities
available for sale 1,647 39 8 6 (368) 1,332
Loans 647 45 124 (15) (194) (14) (d) 291 884 44
Equity investments 1,263 627 573 (783) 1,680 338
Residential mortgage
servicing rights 673 192 411 $ 87 (320) 35 1,078 192
Commercial mortgage
servicing rights 569 162 41 87 (119) 740 162
Financial derivatives 118 83 5 (174) 6 38 113
Total assets $ 5,137 $ 1,147 $ 8 $ 1,207 $ (1,143) $ 174 $ (1,218) $ 18 $ (36) $ 588 $ 5,882 $ 847
Liabilities
Other borrowed funds $ 2 $ 5 $ (4) $ 3
Financial derivatives 273 $ 145 $ 6 (146) $ 7 285 $ 158
Other liabilities 43 151 321 (340) 175 111
Total liabilities $ 318 $ 296 $ 6 $ 326 $ (490) $ 7 $ 463 $ 269
Net gains (losses) $ 851 (f) $ 578 (g)
(a) Losses for assets are bracketed while losses for liabilities are not.
(b) The difference in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in Other comprehensive income and changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in Other
comprehensive income for securities available for sale held at the end of the reporting period were insignificant.
(c) The amount of the total gains or losses for the period included in earnings that is attributable to the change in unrealized gains or losses related to those assets and liabilities held at the
end of the reporting period.
(d) Residential mortgage loan transfers out of Level 3 are primarily driven by residential mortgage loans transferring to OREO as well as reclassification of mortgage loans held for sale to
held for investment.
(e) Transfers into Level 3 were due to certain private company investments valued using significant unobservable inputs during the current period.
(f) Net gains (losses) realized and unrealized included in earnings related to Level 3 assets and liabilities included amortization and accretion. The amortization and accretion amounts were
included in Interest income on the Consolidated Income Statement and the remaining net gains (losses) realized and unrealized were included in Noninterest income on the Consolidated
Income Statement.
(g) Net unrealized gains (losses) related to assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period were included in Noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement.
An instrument’s categorization within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement. Changes from one quarter to the next related to the observability of inputs to a fair value measurement may result in a
reclassification (transfer) of assets or liabilities between hierarchy levels.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 151Quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs within Level 3 recurring assets and liabilities is as follows:
Table 88: Fair Value Measurements – Recurring Quantitative Information
December 31, 2022
Level 3 Instruments Only
Dollars in millions Fair Value Valuation Techniques Unobservable Inputs Range (Weighted-Average) (a)
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale $ 33 Discounted cash flow Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 585bps - 2,465bps (959bps)
Residential mortgage-backed 819 Priced by a third-party vendor Constant prepayment rate 1.0% - 27.9% (9.9%)
non-agency securities using a discounted cash flow
Constant default rate 0.0% - 13.0% (4.0%)
pricing model
Loss severity 15.0% - 80.0% (46.1%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 289bps weighted-average
Asset-backed securities 124 Priced by a third-party vendor Constant prepayment rate 1.0% - 40.0% (7.5%)
using a discounted cash flow
Constant default rate 0.0% - 7.3% (2.1%)
pricing model
Loss severity 20.0% - 100.0% (49.0%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 296bps weighted-average
Loans - Residential real estate - Uninsured 570 Consensus pricing (c) Cumulative default rate 3.6% - 100.0% (66.2%)
Loss severity 0.0% - 100.0% (6.2%)
Discount rate 5.5% - 7.5% (5.9%)
Loans - Residential real estate - 76 Discounted cash flow Loss severity 6.0% weighted-average
Government insured
Discount rate 7.9% weighted-average
Loans - Home equity - First-lien 25 Consensus pricing (c) Cumulative default rate 3.6% - 100.0% (72.5%)
Loss severity 0.0% - 100.0% (15.3%)
Discount rate 5.5% - 7.5% (6.5%)
Loans - Home equity - Second-lien 98 Consensus pricing (c) Credit and liquidity discount 0.4% - 100.0% (46.2%)
Equity investments 1,778 Multiple of adjusted earnings Multiple of earnings 4.5x - 25.0x (9.1x)
Residential mortgage servicing rights 2,310 Discounted cash flow Constant prepayment rate 0.0% - 34.5% (6.7%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 254bps - 1,653bps (766bps)
Commercial mortgage servicing rights 1,113 Discounted cash flow Constant prepayment rate 3.9% - 9.8% (4.3%)
Discount rate 7.8% - 10.1% (9.8%)
Financial derivatives - Swaps related to (107) Discounted cash flow Estimated conversion factor of Visa
sales of certain Visa Class B Class B shares into Class A shares 160.6% weighted-average
common shares
Estimated annual growth rate of Visa
Class A share price 16.0%
Estimated length of litigation resolution Q2 2023
date
Insignificant Level 3 assets, net of (8)
liabilities (d)
Total Level 3 assets, net of liabilities (e) $ 6,831
152 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K(Continued from previous page)
December 31, 2021
Level 3 Instruments Only
Dollars in millions Fair Value Valuation Techniques Unobservable Inputs Range (Weighted-Average) (a)
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale $ 49 Discounted cash flow Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 555bps - 15,990bps (9,996bps)
Residential mortgage-backed 1,097 Priced by a third-party vendor Constant prepayment rate 1.0% - 30.7% (11.3%)
non-agency securities using a discounted cash flow
Constant default rate 0.0% - 16.9% (4.6%)
pricing model
Loss severity 20.0% - 96.4% (47.6%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 163bps weighted-average
Asset-backed securities 163 Priced by a third-party vendor Constant prepayment rate 1.0% - 40.0% (11.1%)
using a discounted cash flow
Constant default rate 1.4% - 20.0% (3.2%)
pricing model
Loss severity 8.0% - 100.0% (57.4%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 182bps weighted-average
Loans - Residential real estate - Uninsured 622 Consensus pricing (c) Cumulative default rate 3.6% - 100.0% (74.2%)
Loss severity 0.0% - 100.0% (6.9%)
Discount rate 4.8% - 6.8% (5.2%)
Loans - Residential real estate - 109 Discounted cash flow Loss severity 6.0% weighted-average
Government insured
Discount rate 3.5% weighted-average
Loans - Home equity - First-lien 28 Consensus pricing (c) Cumulative default rate 3.6% - 100.0% (75.8%)
Loss severity 0.0% - 98.4% (17.7%)
Discount rate 4.8% - 6.8% (6.0%)
Loans - Home equity - Second-lien 125 Consensus pricing (c) Credit and liquidity discount 0.5% - 100.0% (47.3%)
Equity investments 1,680 Multiple of adjusted earnings Multiple of earnings 5.0x - 14.4x (8.8x)
Residential mortgage servicing rights 1,078 Discounted cash flow Constant prepayment rate 0.0% - 41.0% (12.6%)
Spread over the benchmark curve (b) 249bps - 2,218bps (857bps)
Commercial mortgage servicing rights 740 Discounted cash flow Constant prepayment rate 5.0% - 15.5% (5.5%)
Discount rate 5.4% - 8.0% (7.8%)
Financial derivatives - Swaps related to (277) Discounted cash flow Estimated conversion factor of Visa 161.8% weighted-average
sales of certain Visa Class B Class B shares into Class A shares
common shares Estimated annual growth rate of Visa 16.0%
Class A share price
Estimated length of litigation resolution Q2 2023
date
Insignificant Level 3 assets, net of 5
liabilities (d)
Total Level 3 assets, net of liabilities (e) $ 5,419
(a) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the instruments.
(b) The assumed yield spread over the benchmark curve for each instrument is generally intended to incorporate non-interest rate risks, such as credit and liquidity risks.
(c) Consensus pricing refers to fair value estimates that are generally internally developed using information such as dealer quotes or other third-party provided valuations or comparable
asset prices.
(d) Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The amount includes
certain financial derivative assets and liabilities, trading securities, other securities, residential mortgage loans held for sale, other assets, other borrowed funds and other liabilities.
(e) Consisted of total Level 3 assets of $7.3 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $5.9 billion and $0.5 billion as of December 31, 2021,
respectively.
Financial Assets Accounted for at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
We may be required to measure certain financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These adjustments to fair value usually
result from the application of lower of amortized cost or fair value accounting or write-downs of individual assets due to impairment
and are included in Table 89.
Nonaccrual Loans
The carrying value of nonaccrual loans represents the fair value of those loans which have been adjusted due to impairment. The
impairment is primarily based on the appraised value of the collateral.
Appraisals are obtained by licensed or certified appraisers at least annually and more recently in certain instances. All third-party
appraisals are reviewed and any adjustments to the initial appraisal are incorporated into the final issued appraisal report. In instances
where an appraisal is not obtained, collateral value is determined consistent with external third-party appraisal standards by an internal
person independent of the asset manager.
Equity Investments
The majority of the amounts below for equity investments represent the carrying value of LIHTC investments held for sale calculated
using a discounted cash flow model. The significant unobservable input is management’s estimate of required market rate of return.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 153The market rate of return is based on comparison to recent LIHTC sales in the market. Significant increases (decreases) in this input
would result in a significantly lower (higher) carrying value of the investments.
OREO and Foreclosed Assets
The carrying value of OREO and foreclosed assets includes valuation adjustments recorded subsequent to the transfer to OREO and
foreclosed assets. These valuation adjustments are based on the fair value less cost to sell of the property. Fair value is based on
appraised value or sales price and the appraisal process for OREO and foreclosed assets is the same as described above for nonaccrual
loans.
Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets consists of buildings for which valuation adjustments were recorded during the period. A facility classified as held
for use is impaired to the extent its carrying value is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. Valuation adjustments on buildings held
for sale are based on the fair value of the property less an estimated cost to sell and are recorded subsequent to the transfer of the asset
to held for sale status. Fair value is determined either by a third-party appraisal, recent sales offer, changes in market or property
conditions or, where we have agreed to sell the building to a third party, the contractual sales price. Impairment on these long-lived
assets is recorded in Other noninterest expense on our Consolidated Income Statement.
Assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis are as follows:
Table 89: Fair Value Measurements – Nonrecurring (a) (b) (c)
Fair Value Gains (Losses)
Year ended December 31
In millions 2022 2021 2022 2021 2020
Assets
Nonaccrual loans $ 280 $ 348 $ (287) $ (4) $ (111)
Equity investments 135 (1)
OREO and foreclosed assets 10 6 (2)
Long-lived assets 23 103 (15) (45) (27)
Total assets $ 448 $ 457 $ (303) $ (49) $ (140)
(a) All Level 3 for the periods presented, except for $42 million included in Equity investments which was categorized as Level 1 as of December 31, 2022.
(b) Valuation techniques applied were fair value of property or collateral.
(c) Unobservable inputs used were appraised value/sales price, broker opinions or projected income/required improvement costs. Additional quantitative information was not
meaningful for the periods presented.
Financial Instruments Accounted for under Fair Value Option
We elect the fair value option to account for certain financial instruments. For more information on these financial instruments for
which the fair value option election has been made, refer to the Fair Value Measurement section of this Note 15. These financial
instruments are initially measured at fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and any changes in fair value are
subsequently recognized in earnings.
Interest income related to changes in the fair values of these financial instruments is recorded on the Consolidated Income Statement
in Other interest income, except for certain residential mortgage loans, for which income is also recorded in Loans interest income.
Changes in the value on prepaid forward contracts included in Other assets is reported in Noninterest expense and interest expense on
the Other borrowed funds is reported in Borrowed funds interest expense.
Fair values and aggregate unpaid principal balances of items for which we elected the fair value option are as follows:
154 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KTable 90: Fair Value Option – Fair Value and Principal Balances
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Aggregate Aggregate
Unpaid Unpaid
Principal Principal
In millions Fair Value Balance Difference Fair Value Balance Difference
Assets
Residential mortgage loans held for sale
Accruing loans less than 90 days past due $ 609 $ 633 $ (24) $ 1,249 $ 1,219 $ 30
Accruing loans 90 days or more past due 5 5 6 6
Nonaccrual loans 40 49 (9) 47 57 (10)
Total $ 654 $ 687 $ (33) $ 1,302 $ 1,282 $ 20
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale (a)
Accruing loans less than 90 days past due $ 261 $ 256 $ 5 $ 575 $ 580 $ (5)
Nonaccrual loans 15 44 (29)
Total $ 276 $ 300 $ (24) $ 575 $ 580 $ (5)
Loans
Accruing loans less than 90 days past due $ 509 $ 521 $ (12) $ 487 $ 498 $ (11)
Accruing loans 90 days or more past due 155 167 (12) 262 278 (16)
Nonaccrual loans 646 880 (234) 752 1,028 (276)
Total $ 1,310 $ 1,568 $ (258) $ 1,501 $ 1,804 $ (303)
Other assets $ 80 $ 80 $ 105 $ 107 $ (2)
Liabilities
Other borrowed funds $ 31 $ 32 $ (1) $ 30 $ 30
Other liabilities $ 196 $ 196
(a) There were no accruing loans 90 days or more past due within this category at December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021.
The changes in fair value for items for which we elected the fair value option are as follows:
Table 91: Fair Value Option – Changes in Fair Value (a)
Gains (Losses)
Year ended December 31
In millions 2022 2021 2020
Assets
Residential mortgage loans held for sale $ (80) $ 152 $ 198
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale $ 52 $ 115 $ 128
Loans $ 42 $ 80 $ 44
Other assets $ (16) $ 28 $ (3)
Liabilities
Other liabilities $ (67)
(a) The impact on earnings of offsetting hedged items or hedging instruments is not reflected in these amounts.
Additional Fair Value Information Related to Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value
This section presents fair value information for all other financial instruments that are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
at fair value. We used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value amounts for these financial instruments.
Cash and Due from Banks and Interest-earning Deposits with Banks
Due to their short-term nature, the carrying amounts for Cash and due from banks and Interest-earning deposits with banks reported on
our Consolidated Balance Sheet approximate fair value.
Securities Held to Maturity
We primarily use prices obtained from pricing services, dealer quotes or recent trades to determine the fair value of securities. Refer to
the Fair Value Measurement section of this Note 15 for additional information relating to our pricing processes and procedures.
Net Loans
Fair values are estimated based on the discounted value of expected net cash flows incorporating assumptions about prepayment rates,
net credit losses and servicing fees. Nonaccrual loans are valued at their estimated recovery value. The carrying value of Net loans are
presented net of the ALLL.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 155Other Assets
The carrying value of Other assets, which include accrued interest receivable, cash collateral, federal funds sold and resale agreements,
certain loans held for sale, and FHLB and FRB stock, approximates fair value. The aggregate carrying value of our FHLB and FRB
stock was $2.5 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Deposits
For time deposits, fair values are estimated by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates for instruments with
similar maturities. For deposits with no defined maturity, such as noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing demand and interest-bearing
money market and savings deposits, carrying values approximate fair values.
Borrowed Funds
For short-term borrowed funds, including federal funds purchased, commercial paper, repurchase agreements and certain other short-
term borrowings and payables, carrying value approximates fair value. For long-term borrowed funds, quoted market prices are used,
when available, to estimate fair value. When quoted market prices are not available, fair value is estimated based on current market
interest rates and credit spreads for debt with similar terms and maturities.
Unfunded Lending Related Commitments and Letters of Credit
The fair value of unfunded lending related commitments and letters of credit is determined from a market participant’s view including
the impact of changes in interest rates and credit. We establish a liability on these facilities related to the creditworthiness of our
counterparty.
Other Liabilities
Other liabilities includes interest-bearing cash collateral held related to derivatives and other accrued liabilities. Due to its short-term
nature, the carrying value of Other liabilities reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value.
156 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KThe carrying amounts and estimated fair values, as well as the level within the fair value hierarchy, of these financial instruments as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:
Table 92: Additional Fair Value Information Related to Other Financial Instruments
Fair Value
Carrying
In millions Amount Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
December 31, 2022
Assets
Cash and due from banks $ 7,043 $ 7,043 $ 7,043
Interest-earning deposits with banks 27,320 27,320 $ 27,320
Securities held to maturity 95,183 90,279 30,748 59,377 $ 154
Net loans (excludes leases) 313,460 310,864 310,864
Other assets 6,022 6,022 6,020 2
Total assets $ 449,028 $ 441,528 $ 37,791 $ 92,717 $ 311,020
Liabilities
Time deposits $ 18,470 $ 18,298 $ 18,298
Borrowed funds 57,182 57,557 55,922 $ 1,635
Unfunded lending related commitments 694 694 694
Other liabilities 660 660 660
Total liabilities $ 77,006 $ 77,209 $ 74,880 $ 2,329
December 31, 2021
Assets
Cash and due from banks $ 8,004 $ 8,004 $ 8,004
Interest-earning deposits with banks 74,250 74,250 $ 74,250
Securities held to maturity 1,429 1,522 890 456 $ 176
Net loans (excludes leases) 275,874 280,498 280,498
Other assets 4,205 4,204 4,141 63
Total assets $ 363,762 $ 368,478 $ 8,894 $ 78,847 $ 280,737
Liabilities
Time deposits $ 17,366 $ 17,180 $ 17,180
Borrowed funds 30,011 30,616 28,936 $ 1,680
Unfunded lending related commitments 662 662 662
Other liabilities 449 449 449
Total liabilities $ 48,488 $ 48,907 $ 46,565 $ 2,342
The aggregate fair values in Table 92 represent only a portion of the total market value of our assets and liabilities as, in accordance
with the guidance related to fair values about financial instruments, we exclude the following:
• financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (as they are disclosed in Table 86),
• investments accounted for under the equity method,
• equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that apply for the alternative measurement approach to fair value
under ASU 2016-01,
• real and personal property,
• lease financing,
• loan customer relationships,
• deposit customer intangibles,
• mortgage servicing rights (MSRs),
• retail branch networks,
• fee-based businesses, such as asset management and brokerage,
• trademarks and brand names,
• trade receivables and payables due in one year or less,
• deposit liabilities with no defined or contractual maturities under ASU 2016-01, and
• insurance contracts.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 157NOTE 16 FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES
We use a variety of financial derivatives to both mitigate exposure to market (primarily interest rate) and credit risks inherent in our
business activities, as well as to facilitate customer risk management activities. We manage these risks as part of our overall asset and
liability management process and through our credit policies and procedures. Derivatives represent contracts between parties that
usually require little or no initial net investment and result in one party delivering cash or another type of asset to the other party based
on a notional amount and an underlying as specified in the contract.
Derivative transactions are often measured in terms of notional amount, but this amount is generally not exchanged and it is not
recorded on the balance sheet. The notional amount is the basis to which the underlying is applied to determine required payments
under the derivative contract. The underlying is a referenced interest rate, security price, credit spread or other index. Residential and
commercial real estate loan commitments associated with loans to be sold also qualify as derivative instruments.
The following table presents the notional and gross fair value amounts of all derivative assets and liabilities held by us:
Table 93: Total Gross Derivatives (a)
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Notional / Asset Fair Liability Fair Notional / Asset Fair Liability Fair
In millions Contract Amount Value (b) Value (c) Contract Amount Value (b) Value (c)
Derivatives used for hedging
Interest rate contracts (d):
Fair value hedges $ 24,231 $ 23,345
Cash flow hedges 40,310 $ 1 48,961 $ 15 $ 14
Foreign exchange contracts:
Net investment hedges 1,120 $ 24 1,113 24
Total derivatives designated for hedging $ 65,661 $ 24 $ 1 $ 73,419 $ 15 $ 38
Derivatives not used for hedging
Derivatives used for mortgage banking activities (e):
Interest rate contracts:
Swaps $ 47,908 $ 7 $ 1 $ 35,623
Futures (f) 5,537 4,592
Mortgage-backed commitments 4,516 85 89 9,917 $ 55 $ 31
Other 18,017 90 14 12,225 46 12
Total interest rate contracts 75,978 182 104 62,357 101 43
Derivatives used for customer-related activities:
Interest rate contracts:
Swaps 354,150 1,597 5,397 297,711 3,335 1,520
Futures (f) 32 907
Mortgage-backed commitments 2,799 10 6 4,147 5 6
Other 29,071 334 321 25,718 125 72
Total interest rate contracts 386,052 1,941 5,724 328,483 3,465 1,598
Commodity contracts:
Swaps 5,792 1,003 1,067 8,840 1,150 1,161
Other 4,488 205 202 3,128 213 212
Total commodity contracts 10,280 1,208 1,269 11,968 1,363 1,373
Foreign exchange contracts and other 30,512 366 293 27,563 199 179
Total derivatives for customer-related activities 426,844 3,515 7,286 368,014 5,027 3,150
Derivatives used for other risk management activities:
Foreign exchange contracts and other 12,785 47 227 11,512 9 339
Total derivatives not designated for hedging $ 515,607 $ 3,744 $ 7,617 $ 441,883 $ 5,137 $ 3,532
Total gross derivatives $ 581,268 $ 3,768 $ 7,618 $ 515,302 $ 5,152 $ 3,570
Less: Impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements 1,523 1,523 928 928
Less: Cash collateral received/paid 714 1,571 604 1,657
Total derivatives $ 1,531 $ 4,524 $ 3,620 $ 985
(a) Centrally cleared derivatives are settled in cash daily and result in no derivative asset or derivative liability being recognized on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(b) Included in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(c) Included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(d) Represents primarily swaps.
(e) Includes both residential and commercial mortgage banking activities.
(f) Futures contracts are settled in cash daily and result in no derivative asset or derivative liability being recognized on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
158 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KAll derivatives are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. Derivative balances are presented on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on a net basis taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and, when
appropriate, any related cash collateral exchanged with counterparties. Further discussion regarding the offsetting rights associated
with these legally enforceable master netting agreements is included in the Offsetting and Counterparty Credit Risk section of this
Note 16. Any nonperformance risk, including credit risk, is included in the determination of the estimated net fair value of the
derivatives. Further discussion on how derivatives are accounted for is included in Note 1 Accounting Policies.
Derivatives Designated As Hedging Instruments
Certain derivatives used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risk as part of our asset and liability risk management activities
are designated as accounting hedges. Derivatives hedging the risks associated with changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities are
considered fair value hedges, derivatives hedging the variability of expected future cash flows are considered cash flow hedges, and
derivatives hedging a net investment in a foreign subsidiary are considered net investment hedges. Designating derivatives as
accounting hedges allows for gains and losses on those derivatives to be recognized in the same period and in the same income
statement line item as the earnings impact of the hedged items.
Fair Value Hedges
We enter into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt caused
by fluctuations in market interest rates. We also enter into pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps and zero-coupon swaps to
hedge changes in the fair value of fixed rate and zero-coupon investment securities caused by fluctuations in market interest rates.
Gains and losses on the interest rate swaps designated in these hedge relationships, along with the offsetting gains and losses on the
hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in current earnings within the same income statement line item.
Cash Flow Hedges
We enter into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps and interest rate caps and floors to modify the interest rate characteristics
of designated commercial loans from variable to fixed in order to reduce the impact of changes in future cash flows due to market
interest rate changes. We also periodically enter into forward purchase and sale contracts to hedge the variability of the consideration
that will be paid or received related to the purchase or sale of investment securities. The forecasted purchase or sale is consummated
upon gross settlement of the forward contract itself. For these cash flow hedges, gains and losses on the hedging instruments are
recorded in AOCI and are then reclassified into earnings in the same period the hedged cash flows affect earnings and within the same
income statement line as the hedged cash flows.
In the 12 months that follow December 31, 2022, we expect to reclassify net derivative losses of $1.4 billion pretax, or $1.1 billion
after-tax, from AOCI to interest income for these cash flow hedge strategies. This reclassified amount could differ from amounts
actually recognized due to changes in interest rates, hedge de-designations and the addition of other hedges subsequent to
December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is ten
years.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 159Further detail regarding gains (losses) related to our fair value and cash flow hedge derivatives is presented in the following table:
Table 94: Gains (Losses) Recognized on Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedges in the Consolidated Income Statement (a) (b)
Location and Amount of Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income
Interest Income Interest Expense Noninterest Income
In millions Loans Investment Securities Borrowed Funds Other
Year ended December 31, 2022
Total amounts on the Consolidated Income Statement $ 11,795 $ 2,726 $ 1,155 $ 952
Gains (losses) on fair value hedges recognized on:
Hedged items (c) $ (136) $ 1,945
Derivatives $ 143 $ (1,976)
Amounts related to interest settlements on derivatives $ (2) $ 120
Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (d):
Amount of derivative gains (losses) reclassified from accumulated
other comprehensive income $ (259) $ (1)
Year ended December 31, 2021
Total amounts on the Consolidated Income Statement $ 9,007 $ 1,834 $ 361 $ 1,199
Gains (losses) on fair value hedges recognized on:
Hedged items (c) $ (5) $ 937
Derivatives $ 9 $ (993)
Amounts related to interest settlements on derivatives $ (4) $ 521
Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (d):
Amount of derivative gains (losses) reclassified from accumulated
other comprehensive income $ 376 $ 57 $ 61
Year ended December 31, 2020
Total amounts on the Consolidated Income Statement $ 8,927 $ 2,041 $ 718 $ 608
Gains (losses) on fair value hedges recognized on:
Hedged items (c) $ 208 $ (1,059)
Derivatives $ (202) $ 959
Amounts related to interest settlements on derivatives $ (9) $ 480
Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (d):
Amount of derivative gains (losses) reclassified from accumulated
other comprehensive income $ 375 $ 40 $ 6
(a) For all periods presented, there were no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness for any of the fair value or cash flow
hedge strategies.
(b) All cash flow and fair value hedge derivatives were interest rate contracts for the periods presented.
(c) Includes an insignificant amount of fair value hedge adjustments related to discontinued hedge relationships.
(d) For all periods presented, there were no gains or losses from cash flow hedge derivatives reclassified to income because it became probable that the original forecasted
transaction would not occur.
Detail regarding the impact of fair value hedge accounting on the carrying value of the hedged items is presented in the following
table:
Table 95: Hedged Items - Fair Value Hedges
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Cumulative Fair Value Cumulative Fair Value
Hedge Adjustment Hedge Adjustment
Carrying Value of the included in the Carrying Carrying Value of the included in the Carrying
In millions Hedged Items Value of Hedged Items (a) Hedged Items Value of Hedged Items (a)
Investment securities - available for sale (b) $ 2,376 $ (121) $ 2,655 $ 23
Borrowed funds $ 21,781 $ (1,283) $ 24,259 $ 663
(a) Includes less than $(0.1) billion and $(0.1) billion of fair value hedge adjustments primarily related to discontinued borrowed funds hedge relationships at December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively.
(b) Carrying value shown represents amortized cost.
Net Investment Hedges
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge non-U.S. dollar net investments in foreign subsidiaries against adverse
changes in foreign exchange rates. We assess whether the hedging relationship is highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in
the value of the hedge and hedged item by qualitatively verifying that the critical terms of the hedge and hedged item match at the
inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. Net investment hedge derivatives are classified as foreign exchange
contracts. There were no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of the hedge effectiveness for the
periods presented. Net gains on net investment hedge derivatives recognized in OCI were $119 million in 2022 and insignificant in
both 2021 and 2020.
160 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KDerivatives Not Designated As Hedging Instruments
Residential mortgage loans that will be sold in the secondary market, and the related loan commitments, which are considered
derivatives, are accounted for at fair value. Changes in the fair value of the loans and commitments due to interest rate risk are hedged
with forward contracts to sell mortgage-backed securities, as well as U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures and options. Gains and
losses on the loans and commitments held for sale and the derivatives used to economically hedge them are included in Residential
and commercial mortgage noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement.
Residential mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value influenced primarily by changes in
interest rates. Derivatives used to hedge the fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights include interest rate futures, swaps,
options, and forward contracts to purchase mortgage-backed securities. Gains and losses on residential mortgage servicing rights and
the related derivatives used for hedging are included in Residential and commercial mortgage noninterest income.
Commercial mortgage loans held for sale and the related loan commitments, which are considered derivatives, are accounted for at fair
value. Derivatives used to economically hedge these loans and commitments from changes in fair value due to interest rate risk
include forward loan sale contracts and interest rate swaps. Gains and losses on the commitments, loans and derivatives are included in
Residential and commercial mortgage noninterest income. Derivatives used to economically hedge the change in value of commercial
mortgage servicing rights include interest rate futures, swaps and options. Gains or losses on these derivatives are included in
Residential and commercial mortgage noninterest income.
The residential and commercial mortgage loan commitments associated with loans to be sold which are accounted for as derivatives
are valued based on the estimated fair value of the underlying loan and the probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the
commitment. The fair value also takes into account the fair value of the embedded servicing right.
We offer derivatives to our customers in connection with their risk management needs. These derivatives primarily consist of interest
rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, swaptions and foreign exchange contracts. We primarily manage our market risk exposure
from customer transactions by entering into a variety of hedging transactions with third-party dealers. Gains and losses on customer-
related derivatives are included in Other noninterest income.
Included in the customer, mortgage banking risk management, and other risk management portfolios are written interest-rate caps and
floors entered into with customers and for risk management purposes. We receive an upfront premium from the counterparty and are
obligated to make payments to the counterparty if the underlying market interest rate rises above or falls below a certain level
designated in the contract. Our ultimate obligation under written options is based on future market conditions.
We have entered into risk participation agreements to share some of the credit exposure with other counterparties related to interest
rate derivative contracts or to take on credit exposure to generate revenue. The following table presents the notional amount of risk
participation agreements sold and maximum potential exposures at December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Table 96: Risk Participation Agreements
Year ended December 31
In billions 2022 2021
Risk participation agreements:
Sold - notional amount $ 8.0 $ 8.0
Maximum potential amount of exposure (a) $ 0.1 $ 0.3
(a) Based on the fair value of the underlying swaps assuming all underlying third party customers referenced in the swap contracts defaulted.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 161Further detail regarding the gains (losses) on derivatives not designated in hedging relationships is presented in the following table:
Table 97: Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated for Hedging
Year ended December 31
In millions 2022 2021 2020
Derivatives used for mortgage banking activities:
Interest rate contracts (a) $ (671) $ (78) $ 792
Derivatives used for customer-related activities:
Interest rate contracts 220 149 210
Foreign exchange contracts and other 111 135 156
Gains from customer-related activities (b) 331 284 366
Derivatives used for other risk management activities:
Foreign exchange contracts and other (b) 255 (30) (338)
Total gains (losses) from derivatives not designated as hedging instruments $ (85) $ 176 $ 820
(a) Included in Residential and commercial mortgage noninterest income on our Consolidated Income Statement.
(b) Included in Capital markets and advisory and Other noninterest income on our Consolidated Income Statement.
Offsetting and Counterparty Credit Risk
We generally utilize a net presentation on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for those derivative financial instruments entered into with
counterparties under legally enforceable master netting agreements. The master netting agreements reduce credit risk by permitting the
closeout netting of all outstanding derivative instruments under the master netting agreement with the same counterparty upon the
occurrence of an event of default. The master netting agreement also may require the exchange of cash or marketable securities to
collateralize either party’s net position. Collateral is typically exchanged daily on unsettled positions based on the net fair value of the
positions with the counterparty as of the preceding day. Collateral representing initial margin, which is based on potential future
exposure, may also be required to be exchanged. In certain cases, minimum thresholds must be exceeded before any collateral is
exchanged. Any cash collateral exchanged with counterparties under these master netting agreements is also netted, when appropriate,
against the applicable derivative fair values on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. However, the fair value of any securities held or
pledged is not included in the net presentation on the balance sheet. In order for derivative instruments under a master netting
agreement to be eligible for closeout netting under GAAP, we must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded
basis that the offsetting rights included in the master netting agreement would be legally enforceable upon an event of default,
including upon an event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding of the counterparty. Enforceability is evidenced by a legal
opinion that supports, with sufficient confidence, the enforceability of the master netting agreement in such circumstances.
Table 98 shows the impact legally enforceable master netting agreements had on our derivative assets and derivative liabilities at
December 31, 2022 and 2021. The table includes cash collateral held or pledged under legally enforceable master netting agreements.
The table also includes the fair value of any securities collateral held or pledged under legally enforceable master netting agreements.
Cash and securities collateral amounts are included in the table only to the extent of the related net derivative fair values.
Table 98 includes OTC derivatives not settled through an exchange (“OTC derivatives”) and OTC derivatives cleared through a
central clearing house (“OTC cleared derivatives”). OTC derivatives represent contracts executed bilaterally with counterparties that
are not settled through an organized exchange or directly cleared through a central clearing house. The majority of OTC derivatives
are governed by the ISDA documentation or other legally enforceable master netting agreements. OTC cleared derivatives represent
contracts executed bilaterally with counterparties in the OTC market that are novated to a central clearing house who then becomes
our counterparty. OTC cleared derivative instruments are typically settled in cash each day based on the prior day value.
162 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-KTable 98: Derivative Assets and Liabilities Offsetting
Amounts Offset on the Securities
Consolidated Balance Sheet Collateral Held /
Pledged Under
Gross Fair Value Master Netting
In millions Fair Value Offset Amount Cash Collateral Net Fair Value Agreements Net Amounts
December 31, 2022
Derivative assets
Interest rate contracts:
Over-the-counter cleared $ 23 $ 23 $ 23
Over-the-counter 2,100 $ 974 $ 630 496 $ 34 462
Commodity contracts 1,208 335 2 871 871
Foreign exchange and other contracts 437 214 82 141 141
Total derivative assets $ 3,768 $ 1,523 $ 714 $ 1,531 (a) $ 34 $ 1,497
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate contracts:
Over-the-counter cleared $ 28 $ 28 $ 28
Over-the-counter 5,801 $ 625 $ 1,041 4,135 $ 78 4,057
Commodity contracts 1,269 679 520 70 4 66
Foreign exchange and other contracts 520 219 10 291 291
Total derivative liabilities $ 7,618 $ 1,523 $ 1,571 $ 4,524 (b) $ 82 $ 4,442
December 31, 2021
Derivative assets
Interest rate contracts:
Over-the-counter cleared $ 20 $ 20 $ 20
Over-the-counter 3,561 $ 533 $ 593 2,435 $ 300 2,135
Commodity contracts 1,363 299 1 1,063 1,063
Foreign exchange and other contracts 208 96 10 102 102
Total derivative assets $ 5,152 $ 928 $ 604 $ 3,620 (a) $ 300 $ 3,320
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate contracts:
Over-the-counter cleared $ 12 $ 12 $ 12
Over-the-counter 1,643 $ 569 $ 776 298 298
Commodity contracts 1,373 291 784 298 298
Foreign exchange and other contracts 542 68 97 377 377
Total derivative liabilities $ 3,570 $ 928 $ 1,657 $ 985 (b) $ 985
(a) Represents the net amount of derivative assets included in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(b) Represents the net amount of derivative liabilities included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In addition to using master netting agreements and other collateral agreements to reduce credit risk associated with derivative
instruments, we also seek to manage credit risk by evaluating credit ratings of counterparties and by using internal credit analysis,
limits, and monitoring procedures.
At December 31, 2022, cash and debt securities (primarily agency mortgage-backed securities) totaling $1.5 billion were pledged to us
under master netting agreements and other collateral agreements to collateralize net derivative assets due from counterparties and to
meet initial margin requirements, and we pledged cash and debt securities (primarily agency mortgage-backed securities) totaling $2.5
billion under these agreements to collateralize net derivative liabilities owed to counterparties and to meet initial margin requirements.
These totals may differ from the amounts presented in the preceding offsetting table because these totals may include collateral
exchanged under an agreement that does not qualify as a master netting agreement or because the total amount of collateral pledged
exceeds the net derivative fair values with the counterparty as of the balance sheet date due to timing or other factors, such as initial
margin. To the extent not netted against the derivative fair values under a master netting agreement, the receivable for cash pledged is
included in Other assets and the obligation for cash held is included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Securities
pledged to us by counterparties are not recognized on our balance sheet. Likewise, securities we have pledged to counterparties remain
on our balance sheet.
Credit-Risk Contingent Features
Certain derivative agreements contain various credit-risk-related contingent provisions, such as those that require our debt to maintain
a specified credit rating from one or more of the major credit rating agencies. If our debt ratings were to fall below such specified
ratings, the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full
collateralization on derivative instruments in net liability positions. The following table presents the aggregate fair value of derivative
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 2022 Form 10-K 163

