```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2020_Q3

Dust Desks. Boot Up Terminals. Wall St. Returns, Fitfully....................................................................................... 2
JPMorgan Tells Traders to Return --- Staff must go back to office by Sept. 21 unless they have child care,
medical issues.......................................................................................................................................................... 5
Few Workers Are Returning to Their Offices............................................................................................................ 7

New York's finance industry is beginning to reoccupy offices in fits and starts, impeded by uncertainty around
the virus.                                                              
JPMorgan Chase, one of the city's largest private employers, recently asked some senior staff in its markets division to come back starting this week.
Other banks have been slower, with Goldman Sachs and Citigroup calling back more workers beginning next
month.                                                                  
Large banks, where face time and long hours are considered virtues, are generally urging workers to come
back.                                                                  
Banks and other firms bringing back workers have to weigh the risk of exposing them to a potentially deadly
illness against worries that working from home long term will erode office culture. Both JPMorgan and
Goldman recently ushered back hundreds of employees, only to have to send some of them home after new
cases of the virus emerged among workers.                               
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, who returned to the office this summer after recovering from
emergency heart surgery, recently warned that prolonged remote work could lead to drug abuse or worse.

''Going back to work is a good thing,'' Mr. Dimon said at a virtual investment conference last week. ''You can
create more deaths from depression, overdose if we're not real careful and manage those things.''
JPMorgan has been at the vanguard of Wall Street's return-to-office movement. Shortly after Labor Day,
senior markets-division executives asked senior managers -- who amount to roughly 10 percent of that unit's
work force -- to return to their Manhattan and London offices on a staggered, one-week-in, one-week-at-home
basis, starting Sept. 21.                                               
Their mandate attracted the notice of President Trump. ''Congratulations to JPMorgan Chase for ordering
everyone BACK TO OFFICE on September 21st,'' he wrote on Twitter, misstating the breadth of the recall.
''Will always be better than working from home!''                       

JPMorgan Tells Traders to Return --- Staff must go back to office by Sept. 21 unless they have child
care, medical issues                                                    
One of Wall Street's biggest employers is calling its trading staff back to the office.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. executives told senior employees of the bank's giant sales and trading operation that
they and their teams must return to the office by Sept. 21, according to people familiar with the matter.
Trading chief Troy Rohrbaugh and Marc Badrichani, the bank's global head of sales and research, delivered
the message in conference calls Wednesday morning, the people said. The two executives said employees
with child-care issues and medical conditions that make them more vulnerable to coronavirus complications
can continue working from home, the people added.                       
The calls were addressed to managing directors and some executive directors, the unit's most senior
managers, the people said.                                              
Companies that have allowed employees to work from home this year face a delicate task in calling them
back.                                                                   
Before JPMorgan sent employees home in mid-March, a coronavirus outbreak sickened more than a dozen
people on the fifth floor of its Madison Avenue office. By fully reopening its trading floor, the bank is sending a
message to its employees -- and its competitors -- that it is now safe to return.
Going remote was hard for Wall Street. Trading floors thrive on shop talk, banter and elaborate technology
setups. When markets were melting down in the pandemic's early days, veteran traders and their bosses
worried that their home offices weren't equipped to handle the chaos.   
JPMorgan, which is building a new skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan, has been more aggressive than some
of its peers about bringing workers back to the office. JPMorgan employees said they have mixed feelings
about returning to the office full time, with some citing concerns around the commute and a potential second
wave of the virus. Others are eager to return rather than work from cramped, at-home quarters. Many junior
staff have been working at headquarters and backup sites throughout the summer.
It has been a busy season. While the coronavirus has decimated many U.S. businesses, the stock market
has roared and some Wall Street firms have notched record quarters.     

Few Workers Are Returning to Their Offices                              
Major financial institutions such as Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have allowed only a small
number of traders, bankers and other employees to return to the workplace. 
Financial services giant JPMorgan Chase has kept occupancy of its Manhattan office space at about 20% in
most locations, and no building is expected to exceed 50% at this point. About half of its sales and trading
teams have returned.                                                    

Banking & Finance: Payments Firm Taulia Raises $60 Million              
Taulia Inc. is raising $60 million from backers, according to Chief Executive Cedric Bru. The round is being
led by the fintech investment arm of Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. of China Ltd. and will include JPMorgan
Chase & Co.'s strategic investment unit and a venture arm of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., commonly known as
Aramco.                                                                 
```