fifth_third_bancorp_2020_Q3

          Pneumatic Tubes Are Hot Banking Tech --- Customers jam drive-through lanes again.......................................... 2


          Even Brody, a Labrador retriever, is a new fan of the customer drive-through at the local Fifth Third Bancorp
          branch just north of Cincinnati.                                        
          After the bank closed its lobbies during the pandemic, Brody's owner, Julie Phillippi-Whitney, switched to the
          drive-through lane for her public-relations business, putting checks into cylinders that travel via pneumatic
          tube from the driver's side of her car to a teller inside.              
                                                                                  
          The cylinders return with dog treats. "He thinks the drive-through at Fifth Third is a giant Milk-Bone
          dispensary," said Ms. Phillippi-Whitney, who kept to her car-lane habit even after the bank reopened branch
          lobbies in June.                                                        
                                                                                  
          Tiffany Ross, a manager for Fifth Third, estimated that her Cincinnati branch went through 15 such containers
          in 2 1/2 months in the spring, a surprising number. While waiting for replacements, one of the branch's private
          bankers took busted containers home to glue back together.              
                                                                                  

          Citigroup Inc. reactivated about 30 drive-up teller windows after city and state authorities started telling
          people to stay home. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Fifth Third also have added
          drive-through capacity.                                                 
          Mrs. Ross, of Fifth Third in Cincinnati, said closing the bank lobby was tough on customers who prefer to do
          business with a teller. "We have 50 regulars that just come in every day and chat with us," she said.