capital_one_financial_corporation_2020_Q3

Banking & Finance: Capital One Fined Over Massive Hacking --- Regulator imposes $80 million penalty and
consent order for lax cloud procedure...................................................................................................................... 4

Banking&Finance:CapitalOneFinedOverMassiveHacking---Regulatorimposes$80millionpenaltyandconsentorderforlaxcloudprocedure

Banking & Finance: Capital One Fined Over Massive Hacking --- Regulator imposes $80 million
penalty and consent order for lax cloud procedure

A top banking regulator has fined Capital One Financial Corp. $80 million over a 2019 hack that compromised
the personal information of about 106 million card customers and applicants.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said the bank failed "to establish effective risk assessment
processes" before transferring information-technology operations to the public cloud and "to correct the
deficiencies in a timely manner."                                       
Consent orders from the OCC and the Federal Reserve also require the bank to make risk-management
changes and beef up its cybersecurity defenses. The bank said it has already made many of the required
changes.                                                                
"In the year since the incident, we have invested significant additional resources into further strengthening our
cyber defenses, and have made substantial progress in addressing the requirements of these orders," said a
Capital One spokeswoman in a statement.                                 
The Capital One hack was one of the largest-ever data breaches of a big bank.
Prosecutors have accused Paige A. Thompson of breaking through the bank's firewall to access data that it
stored on Amazon.com Inc.'s cloud service.                              

The hack exposed addresses, dates of birth and self-reported incomes of individuals and small-business
owners who applied for Capital One credit cards between 2005 and early 2019. Some Social Security
numbers, bank account numbers, credit scores, payment histories and credit-card spending limits also were
compromised.                                                            
The bank said controls it had in place before the breach helped it to secure customer information before it
could be used and helped authorities catch the alleged hacker. The OCC said its consent order took into
account the bank's customer notification and remediation efforts.       
Ms. Thompson has pleaded not guilty to charges of wire fraud and computer fraud and abuse. Her trial is
scheduled to start next year.                                           
Prosecutors have said that Ms. Thompson began attempting to access the bank's information in March 2019.
Capital One learned about the breach months later from an outside researcher.

Before the hack was made public, Capital One employees had raised concerns about what they saw as high
turnover in its cybersecurity unit and a failure to promptly install some software that could have helped to
spot and defend against hacks, The Wall Street Journal reported last year.
Some of these issues had been flagged to the bank's internal auditors and senior executives, the Journal
reported.                                                               


EXCHANGE --- Small-Business Survival Guide: Breaking Up With the Bank --- Some owners are
moving their money permanently to smaller lenders that were able to deliver their PPP funds

In Pavia Rosati's hour of financial need, her bank ghosted her.         
It was April, and the coronavirus pandemic was taking a toll on Ms. Rosati's New York-based travel-writing
website and consulting firm, Fathom Unlimited Inc. She went to Capital One Financial Corp., Fathom's bank
for nearly 10 years, for a Paycheck Protection Program loan.            
But Capital One wasn't ready to accept applications for the government-loan program. A branch banker took
days to respond to emails, she said, and referred her to a customer-service hotline.
Ms. Rosati decided to switch banks: "Why would I work with a bank that was so unhelpful to me at the
moment I needed it?"                                                    
A Capital One spokeswoman said the bank historically had a modest SBA lending portfolio but that it "worked
around the clock to stand up our digital PPP application." The bank funded more than 14,000 PPP loans as of
July 1.