 ITEM 1A. 

RISK FACTORS

Except as provided below, there have been no material changes in the Company&#8217;s risk factors from those disclosed in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

&#160;

The novel Coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic could adversely affect the Company and its customers, associates and third-party service providers, and the adverse impacts on the Company&#8217;s business, financial position, operations and prospects could be significant.

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public health crisis that has resulted in unprecedented uncertainty, volatility and disruption in financial markets and in governmental, commercial and consumer activity in the United States and globally. Governmental responses to the pandemic have included orders closing businesses not deemed essential and directing individuals to restrict their movements and observe social distancing. These actions, together with responses to the pandemic by businesses and individuals, have resulted in decreases in commercial and consumer activity, temporary closures of many businesses that have led to loss of revenues and an increase in unemployment, material decreases in oil and gas prices and in business valuations, disrupted global supply chains, market downturns and volatility, changes in consumer behavior related to pandemic fears and an expectation that Federal Reserve policy will maintain a low interest rate environment for the foreseeable future. These changes have had a significant adverse effect on the markets in which the Company conducts its business and on the demand for its products and services. 

Business and consumer customers of the Company are experiencing varying degrees of financial distress, which is expected to increase over coming months and could adversely affect their ability to timely pay interest and principal on their loans and the value of the collateral securing their obligations. Further, any disruption to our ability to deliver financial products or services to, or interact with, our customers could result in losses or increased operational costs, regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions, or harm our reputation.

COVID-19 is not yet contained and could affect significantly more households and businesses. Given the ongoing and dynamic nature of the circumstances, it is not possible to accurately predict the extent, severity or duration of these conditions or when normal economic and operating conditions will resume. For this reason, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic affects the Company&#8217;s business, operations and financial condition, as well as its regulatory capital and liquidity, is highly uncertain and unpredictable and depends on, among other things, new information that may emerge concerning the scope, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other parties in response to the pandemic. If the pandemic is prolonged, the adverse impact on the markets in which the Company operates and on its business, operations and financial condition could deepen.

The Federal Reserve has taken various actions and the U.S. government has enacted several fiscal stimulus measures to counteract the economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company faces an increased risk of litigation and governmental, regulatory and third-party scrutiny as a result of the effects of COVID-19 on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. Furthermore, various governmental programs such as the PPP are complex and the Company&#8217;s participation may lead to additional litigation and governmental, regulatory and third-party scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to the Company&#8217;s reputation. For example, the Company&#8217;s participation in the PPP as a lender may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s revenue and results of operations depending on the timing and amount of forgiveness, if any, to which its borrowers will be entitled.

To the extent COVID-19 adversely affects the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, it also may have the effect of exacerbating many of the other risks described under &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

&#160;

