 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the risks below and other information set forth in this Report, you should consider the risks described under the caption &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s 2020 Form 10-K. 

The risk factors set forth in our 2020 Form 10-K are updated by the following risks: 

Risks Related to our Pending Acquisitions 

Failure to complete our proposed acquisition of Investors or proposed acquisition of HSBC branches could negatively impact our business, financial results, and stock price. 

Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 89 

If for any reason the acquisition of Investors or the proposed acquisition of HSBC branches are not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely impacted and we will be subject to a number of risks, including: the financial markets may react negatively, resulting in negative impacts on our stock price and other adverse impacts&#894; we may experience negative reactions from our customers, vendors, and employees; we will have incurred substantial expenses and will be required to pay certain costs relating to the acquisitions, whether or not the acquisitions are completed, such as legal, accounting, investment banking, and other professional and administrative fees&#894; and matters relating to the acquisitions may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have benefited us. 

Our ability to complete the proposed acquisition of Investors and/or the acquisition of HSBC branches is subject to the receipt of approval from various regulatory agencies. 

Prior to the transactions contemplated in the Investors acquisition agreement being consummated, the Company and Investors must obtain certain regulatory approvals, including approvals of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Similarly, prior to the consummation of the HSBC transaction, the Company and HSBC must obtain certain regulatory approvals. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the Company or its business following the acquisitions, or require changes to the terms of the transactions completed by the Investors acquisition agreement and HSBC branch acquisition agreement. There can be no assurance that the regulations will not impose any such conditions, obligations or restrictions, and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the Investors acquisition agreement or HSBC branch acquisition agreement, as applicable, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the Company following the acquisitions or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions if the acquisitions were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe, any of which might have an adverse effect on the Company following the acquisitions. 

We face risks and uncertainties related to our proposed acquisitions of Investors and HSBC branches. 

Uncertainty about the effect of the proposed acquisitions on personnel and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel until the acquisitions are consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change their existing business relationships with us. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the acquisitions, as employees may experience uncertainty about their roles with the Company following the acquisitions. The Investors and HSBC branches to be acquired by the Company have respectively operated and, until the completion of the acquisitions, will continue to operate independently. The ultimate success of the acquisitions, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, among other things, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate our and Investors&#8217; businesses and the HSBC&#8217;s branches in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated cost savings. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of the companies' ongoing business, unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs, and an integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Also, if the Company experiences difficulties or delays with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all. 

Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 90 

The definitive agreements between the Company and Investors and HSBC, respectively, may be terminated in accordance with its terms. 

The Investors acquisition agreement with Investors and the HSBC branch acquisition agreement with HSBC are each subject to a number of conditions which need to be fulfilled in order to consummate the proposed acquisitions. With respect to the Investors acquisition agreement, these conditions include, among other things, the approval of Investors&#8217; stockholders, the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, the absence of any order, injunction, or other legal restraint, subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of representations and warranties under the Investors acquisition agreement, our and Investors&#8217; performance of our and their respective obligations under the Investors acquisition agreement in all material aspects, and each of our and Investors&#8217; receipt of a tax opinion to the effect that the acquisition will be treated as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The HSBC branch acquisition agreement is also subject to customary closing terms and conditions, including the receipt of all required regulatory approvals. 

The conditions to the closing of the acquisitions may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and accordingly, the acquisitions may be delayed or may not be completed. With respect to the Investors acquisition agreement, we and Investors may opt to terminate the Investors acquisition agreement under certain circumstances. Among other situations, if the acquisition is not completed by July 28, 2022, either we or Investors may choose not to proceed with the acquisition (provided that such date may be extended to October 28, 2022 by us or Investors if all other condition precedents other than receipt of all requisite regulatory approvals have been satisfied or waived). We and Investors can also mutually decide to terminate the Investors acquisition agreement at any time. The HSBC branch acquisition agreement may also be terminated by the parties thereto under certain circumstances. 

Shareholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the proposed acquisition of Investors or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. 

Lawsuits may be filed against us, Investors, or the directors and officers of either company relating to the proposed acquisition Litigation filed against us, our Board of Directors, or Investors and its Board of Directors could prevent or delay the completion of the acquisition, cause us to incur additional costs, or result in the payment of damages following completion of the acquisition. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the effective time of the acquisition may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, and market price. 

