Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2021_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: JPMorgan Unit Chief Departs to Run TIAA.............................................................................. 9
          Dining Software Firm to List --- Toast taps Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan to underwrite a possible IPO later this year
          10                                                                      
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Exchange Poaches JPMorgan For New Chief....................................................................... 11
          Banks Still Have Cards To Play In Payments --- JPMorgan Chase deal suggests view on travel......................... 14
          Data, Costs Tested JPMorgan, Amazon, Berkshire Venture ................................................................................. 15
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:JPMorganUnitChiefDepartstoRunTIAA                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: JPMorgan Unit Chief Departs to Run TIAA              
          By Justin Baer                                                          
          447 words                                                               
          26 February 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America named JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s Thasunda Brown
          Duckett as president and chief executive, tapping a powerful consumer banker and one of Wall Street's
          most-prominent Black executives.                                        
          As CEO of Chase Consumer Banking, Ms. Duckett oversees a sprawling network of 4,900 branches, more
          than $600 billion in deposits and 40,000 employees. She led Chase's first retail-branch expansion in a
          decade, extended its digital offerings and pushed the bank to help improve customers' financial literacy. Ms.
          Duckett has also been a leading voice among bankers in the need to close the wealth gap between white and
          Black Americans.                                                        
          The 47-years-old executive will succeed Roger Ferguson, who announced his retirement from TIAA in
          November after a 13-year run as CEO. Mr. Ferguson will remain in his role until Ms. Duckett joins the firm on
          May 1, TIAA said Thursday.                                              
          Ms. Duckett is leaving consumer-banking for a part of the financial world that is confronting many of the same
          challenges, albeit at a different stage. Technology and evolving customer tastes have driven down the costs
          of investing, squeezing money managers' margins and forcing firms to consider mergers that give them the
          scale to compete. The U.S. banking industry's consolidation wave began decades ago, leaving JPMorgan as
          one of a handful of systematically important lenders.                   
          TIAA manages $1.3 trillion in assets through its retirement accounts and investment funds.
          "I am extraordinarily grateful for the opportunity to lead a company that has helped millions of people retire
          with 'enough' to live in dignity and excited about the opportunity to help TIAA chart its next 100 years," Ms.
          Duckett said in a statement.                                            
          JPMorgan's consumer- and community-banking division, which includes Ms. Duckett's business, earned
          $4.33 billion in the fourth quarter on $12.73 billion in revenue. Ms. Duckett joined the bank's operating
          committee in September, becoming the first Black executive to sit on the bank's top leadership group. She
          previously served as chief executive of Chase's auto-finance arm, and before that worked at the bank's
          mortgage business.                                                      
          "She is an outstanding leader and role model, and we will miss her," said James Dimon, JPMorgan's
          chairman and CEO, in a statement.                                       
          In a memo to staff, JPMorgan co-President Gordon Smith said Thursday that the bank would announce Ms.
          Duckett's successor shortly.                                            
          Under Mr. Ferguson's direction, TIAA expanded beyond its own core business of managing retirement
          accounts for employees at colleges, healthcare systems and nonprofits.  
                                                                                  
          ---                                                                     
          David Benoit contributed to this article.                               
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210226eh2q0001o                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          DiningSoftwareFirmtoList---ToasttapsGoldmanSachs,JPMorgantounderwriteapossibleIPOlaterthisyear
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Dining Software Firm to List --- Toast taps Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan to underwrite a possible IPO
          later this year                                                         
          By Cara Lombardo and Maureen Farrell                                    
          301 words                                                               
          22 February 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Toast Inc. is planning an initial public offering that could value the restaurant-software provider at around $20
          billion, people familiar with the matter said.                          
          Toast tapped Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to underwrite a possible listing later
          this year, these people said. It could also consider other options including a sale or combination with a
          blank-check company, some of the people said. There are no guarantees Toast will ultimately go public or
          pursue another of the options.                                          
          In going public, Toast, a 10-year-old company whose valuation has leapt several fold in the past year, would
          join a red-hot IPO market fueled lately by the high-profile debuts of companies including Affirm Holdings Inc.
          and Bumble Inc. Shares of both are trading far above their IPO prices, as are those of 2020 predecessors
          including Airbnb Inc. and DoorDash Inc.                                 
          Also powering the record IPO market is a wave of so-called special-purpose acquisition companies, which go
          public without a business and then hunt for one to merge with.          
          Founded in 2011 by Aman Narang, Jon Grimm and Steve Fredette, Toast provides payment-processing
          hardware and cloud-based software for restaurants. Aside from core point-of-sale offerings, its products
          include payroll processing and email marketing, and it lends to restaurants through Toast Capital.
          Competitors include Square Inc. and PayPal Holdings Inc.                
          The Boston company was valued at around $4.9 billion in a $400 million fundraising round roughly a year ago
          that included Bessemer Venture Partners, TPG, Greenoaks Capital and Tiger Global Management LLC.
          The company last week added American Express Co. executive Susan Chapman-Hughes to its board of
          directors.                                                              
          Document J000000020210222eh2m00029                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:ExchangePoachesJPMorganForNewChief                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Exchange Poaches JPMorgan For New Chief              
          By Joanne Chiu                                                          
          330 words                                                               
          10 February 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The operator of Hong Kong's stock exchange named JPMorgan Chase & Co. veteran Nicolas Aguzin as its
          next chief executive, appointing an international banker to the top job as the city's status as a global finance
          hub is at a crossroads.                                                 
          The hire comes as Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. enjoys a China-fueled boom in trading and new
          listings. Mr. Aguzin, 52 years old, will take the helm of what is now the world's most valuable exchange group,
          according to S&P Global Market Intelligence data, with a rally in its own shares lifting its market capitalization
          to around $85 billion.                                                  
          Mr. Aguzin is an Argentine national who also holds a Croatian passport and has permanent residence in
          Hong Kong. He doesn't speak Mandarin -- unlike his Beijing-born predecessor Charles Li, who led HKEX
          from 2010 to the end of last year.                                      
          The appointment of a foreigner underscores the exchange's global ambitions and its independence, amid
          concerns about Beijing's growing influence on the city, said Paul Pong, managing director at Pegasus Fund
          Managers Ltd.                                                           
          "It helps strengthen the image of Hong Kong as an international financial center," said Mr. Pong.
          He said Mr. Aguzin's strengths would be complemented by those of HKEX Chairman Laura Cha, who has
          strong connections in mainland China as a former vice chairman of China's securities watchdog.
                                                                                  
          HKEX said Mr. Aguzin was appointed to a three-year term, effective May 24. He takes over from Calvin Tai,
          who had been interim CEO after Mr. Li, also a former JPMorgan banker, stepped down.
          HKEX has benefited from a rush of capital-raising by Chinese technology startups and U.S.-listed Chinese
          companies seeking a secondary listing in the city. Trading turnover has also surged, thanks in part to growing
          inflows from mainland Chinese investors. HKEX shares have risen 92% in the past 12 months, according to
          S&P.                                                                    
          Document J000000020210210eh2a0001q                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 11 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BanksStillHaveCardsToPlayInPayments---JPMorganChasedealsuggestsviewontravel
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Banks Still Have Cards To Play In Payments --- JPMorgan Chase deal suggests view on travel
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          338 words                                                               
          8 January 2021                                                          
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          With people traveling less and spending more on digital platforms, banks with big credit-card units have lost
          some luster with investors. But they still have cards to play.          
          JPMorgan Chase recently acquired the global loyalty division of Loyalty Group Holdings, which serves
          credit-card rewards programs and helps connect them to ways that rewards can be used.
          The move suggests in part that JPMorgan Chase sees travel and cards continuing a long-running
          association, and the deal includes travel services. Americans may have started using different cards or
          looking to find other uses for points in 2020. Lenders have responded by increasing rewards for grocery
          shopping and streaming. But many firms are betting that a pent-up desire for escape still exists, and spenders
          soon will be eager to use points again.                                 
          The deal is also notable for coming during the emergence of many technology players in payments and
          rewards. PayPal has been beefing up its platform that gives its users ways to use their card points, and
          investing in other inducements to shop, such as digital coupon-clipping service Honey. Meanwhile, part of
          buy-now-pay-later platform Afterpay's success is that shoppers can find merchants through Afterpay, rather
          than just the other way around. The company said this week that referrals to partner merchants this holiday
          season more than doubled versus the prior year through its Shop Directory service.
          A risk of this emerging payments ecosystem to card issuers is that they become somewhat secondary to the
          e-commerce value chain. Even if people travel again, they might be shopping for that travel quite differently.
          By buying a rewards business, JPMorgan Chase can have a broader role.   
          The pandemic has shaken up spending and travel, and investors have bet that digital upstarts will be big
          winners. JPMorgan Chase's deal is a reminder that the card giants won't stay in lockdown.
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020210108eh180000l                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 14 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Data,CostsTestedJPMorgan,Amazon,BerkshireVenture                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Data, Costs Tested JPMorgan, Amazon, Berkshire Venture                  
          By Sebastian Herrera and David Benoit                                   
          1,251 words                                                             
          8 January 2021                                                          
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Amazon.com Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. set out three years ago to join and
          transform health care. Instead, they struggled to solve even fundamental challenges, such as understanding
          what some kinds of care actually cost.                                  
          Haven, the joint venture they set up together in 2018 to use technology and find new ways to reduce costs
          for their combined 1.5 million employees, will end operations next month. The project cost the three
          companies roughly $100 million combined, people familiar with its budget said.
          From its inception, Haven faced challenges obtaining data, staff turnover, fuzzy goals and unexpected
          competition, according to current and former employees and executives at Haven and the partner companies.
          Those factors doomed the partnership from early on, those people said.  
          Data was a central challenge. Haven struggled to aggregate and analyze information on health-care costs for
          the three companies employees. Data concerns from the partners and resistance from insurers stymied
          Haven's efforts to determine how much the companies paid for medical care and why, the people said.
          Haven isn't the first venture to struggle with the lack of transparency in health-care costs and data, an issue
          that has long complicated government reform efforts and technology solutions. A new Trump administration
          rule, effective this year, is supposed to force greater disclosure of the rates negotiated between hospitals and
          insurers.                                                               
          As of Jan. 1, hospitals are required to publish the prices negotiated privately with each payer for 300 common
          services for easy use by consumers and make public the same information for all their procedures in a format
          that can be read and analyzed by computers.                             
          "You can't solve the problem when you can't see it," one of the people involved in the venture said. "We were
          all doing our own thing and health care was too big a problem for us to solve."
          A Haven spokeswoman said the founding companies "were committed and engaged from day one through to
          the decision to end Haven's operations" and will continue to collaborate informally.
                                                                                  
          While leaders of the founding companies were initially optimistic about Haven's potential, the challenge of
          applying its work across three sprawling corporations slowed progress and added complexity, the people
          close to the venture said. Eventually, the companies realized they could implement many projects more
          efficiently on their own, they said.                                    
          Despite Amazon, JPMorgan and Berkshire's collective size, they lacked scale to garner enough negotiating
          power with care providers. To achieve their big aims, they would have needed more partner companies to
          join, or cooperation with government, said health-care specialists familiar with Haven's work.
          "They did not have enough bargaining power with the insurance industry or with providers," said Lyndean
          Brick, CEO of health-care consulting firm Advis. Sweeping changes "will take massive governmental and
          business reform, and we have yet to see that cooperation."              
          Haven, which had about 75 employees at its peak, took on more projects than staffers said they felt it was
          equipped to handle. Much of its work had to be approved by the three founding companies, slowing progress.
          Atul Gawande, a writer, surgeon and Harvard University professor who was tapped to lead Haven, stepped
          down in May, saying he planned to focus on the Covid-19 pandemic. He didn't respond to requests made to
          his press office for comment. In November, he was named to President-elect Joe Biden's coronavirus task
          force.                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 15 of 19 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The three founding companies showed varying interest in the venture, the people said. JPMorgan Chief
          Executive Jamie Dimon, who had come up with the venture idea, was the only CEO out of the three
          companies to actively participate in meetings and help push forward pilot projects, these people said.
          Employees at Boston-based Haven found themselves working on projects similar to ones the individual
          partners were also