Here is the cleaned text file with only the content related to "Bank of New York Mellon Corporation" and the table of contents preserved:

```
bank_of_new_york_mellon_corporation,_the_2021_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance -- Currencies: BNY Mellon Invests in Crypto Startup --- The investment in Fireblocks comes
          as the bank pushes into digital... .............................................................................................................................. 2
          BNY Mellon, Google Develop AI to Spot Treasury Trade Fails................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance--Currencies:BNYMellonInvestsinCryptoStartup---TheinvestmentinFireblockscomesasthebankpushesintodigital...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance -- Currencies: BNY Mellon Invests in Crypto Startup --- The investment in
          Fireblocks comes as the bank pushes into digital-asset custody          
          By Alexander Osipovich                                                  
          733 words                                                               
          19 March 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Bank of New York Mellon Corp . is investing in a cryptocurrency startup, the latest move by a traditional Wall
          Street player to embrace digital assets.                                
          The startup, Fireblocks, builds tools for the secure storage and transfer of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
          BNY Mellon plans to use Fireblocks' technology to underpin a new business that the bank unveiled last
          month, in which it plans to serve as a custodian for digital assets on behalf of institutional investors.
          BNY Mellon's strategic investment in Fireblocks is part of a larger funding round that Fireblocks announced
          Thursday, after news of the investment was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. The New York-based
          startup raised $133 million from investors, including hedge-fund firm Coatue Management LLC and
          venture-capital firms Ribbit Capital and Stripes. BNY Mellon didn't disclose the size of its investment.
          Fireblocks was founded in 2018 by veterans of Israeli military intelligence. The Series C funding round gives
          the firm a valuation of more than $900 million, a person familiar with the matter said. Fireblocks has raised
          $179 million to date, including the new round.                          
          Cryptocurrencies have enjoyed a wave of interest this year from mainstream financial firms and corporations.
          Those include Mastercard Inc ., which has said it plans to support some cryptocurrencies on its network, and
          Tesla Inc ., which bought $1.5 billion in bitcoin for its treasury.     
          Amid the growing interest, bitcoin has nearly doubled in value since the beginning of the year and was trading
          above $58,000 on Thursday. The biggest U.S. cryptocurrency exchange, Coinbase Global Inc., recently filed
          plans to go public on the Nasdaq Stock Market .                         
          BNY Mellon is one of the world's largest custody banks. Such banks play an essential role in global finance
          by ensuring the safe storage of assets held by institutional investors, such as pension funds and mutual
          funds.                                                                  
          One reason why money managers have been reluctant to invest in cryptocurrencies -- besides their volatility
          and uncertain regulatory status -- is the lack of reputable custodians for digital assets. Safe storage is
          especially critical in crypto because of the frequency of cyberattacks. Collectively, hackers have stolen billions
          of dollars of digital currencies since bitcoin made its debut in 2009.  
          BNY Mellon says it is entering crypto custody to serve growing interest in digital assets among institutional
          investors. "There is very significant demand for digital assets in general," said Roman Regelman, chief
          executive of BNY Mellon's asset-servicing and digital businesses. "They're becoming part of the mainstream."
          Earlier this month, payments giant PayPal Holdings Inc . acquired a rival of Fireblocks, Curv, in another sign
          of interest in crypto-custody technology. State Street Corp ., one of the other major custody banks, also says
          it is working on a digital-asset-custody service.                       
                                                                                  
          Fireblocks has developed what is effectively a safe-deposit box for cryptocurrencies, along with a crypto
          version of the Swift money-transfer network used by banks.              
          In February, more than $100 billion of digital assets were moved through Fireblocks' network, more than
          double the level from three months earlier, the firm says. That rapid growth reflects the rally in bitcoin, ether
          and other cryptocurrencies as well as increasing usage of the network. Fireblocks says it has more than 200
          clients, including some of the larger crypto-focused trading firms.     
          The startup is also working with five other multinational banks besides BNY Mellon, according to Fireblocks
          Chief Executive and co-founder Michael Shaulov. He declined to identify the banks.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BNYMellon,GoogleDevelopAItoSpotTreasuryTradeFails                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BNY Mellon, Google Develop AI to Spot Treasury Trade Fails              
          By John McCormick                                                       
          342 words                                                               
          22 February 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Bank of New York Mellon Corp., working with Alphabet Inc.'s cloud-computing business, Google Cloud,
          developed machine-learning technology designed to predict when Treasury market trades will fail to settle.
          Treasury securities are traded by broker-dealers, institutional investors, banks and others. There are a
          number of reasons U.S. Treasury trades can fail, such as if one party is short the securities needed to
          complete a trade, a computer system goes down, or because of some other operational issue, according to
          the custody bank.                                                       
          The failure to deliver the securities can cause both reputational harm and result in penalty recommendations
          from the Treasury Market Practices Group, which could be up to 3% of the face value of the securities, BNY
          Mellon said. TMPG is an industry trade group sponsored by the Federal Reserve.
          BNY Mellon, which is one of the largest clearing and settlement firms in the roughly $20 trillion Treasury
          market, said that on a typical day about 2% of transactions fail to settle. BNY Mellon is involved in the
          clearing and settlement of about a third of U.S. Treasurys, according to research and consulting firm Aite
          Group. Other firms clearing and settling Treasury trades include JPMorgan Chase and State Street Corp.,
          according to Aite.                                                      
          "It's a large market," said Brian Ruane, chief executive of BNY Mellon's clearance and collateral management
          business. "So 2% is still a large number."                              
          When the Treasury market technology service, which BNY Mellon announced earlier this month, predicts a
          market trade will fail to settle, it provides a warning to the client and allows them to take corrective action,
          such as obtaining additional securities to fulfill a trade.             
          The bank used 10 months of BNY Mellon settlement data to train and test the model and found it can pick up
          about 40% of the trades that are likely to fail. The model is new and will learn and get better as it ingests
          more client data, Mr. Ruane said.                                       
          Document J000000020210222eh2m00014                                      
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
``` 

I have removed the section titled "Nation's Oldest Bank Opts to Accept Bitcoin" as it did not relate to BNY Mellon, and kept only the relevant sections while preserving the original formatting and table of contents.