 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risks, including the risk factors discussed in Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (the &#8220;2021 Form 10-K&#8221;), which risk factors have not materially changed except as set forth below. The risk factors below supersede the similarly captioned risk factors set forth in the 2021 Form 10-K and supplement the other risk factors in the 2021 Form 10-K. They reflect modifications to the nature of the risks that have developed since the date on which the 2021 Form 10-K was filed. 

Our businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. 

We provide traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services including asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, merger-and-acquisition advisory services and other specialty financing. All of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in the South, Midwest and Texas, the principal markets in which we conduct business. Global economic conditions also affect our operating results because global economic conditions directly influence the U.S. economic conditions. Sources of global economic and market instability include, but are not limited to, the potential for an economic slowdown in United Kingdom, Europe and the United States; the impact of trade negotiations; economic conditions in China, including the global economic impacts of the Chinese economy and China&#8217;s regulation of commerce; and escalating military tensions in Europe as a result of Russia&#8217;s invasion of Ukraine. Various market conditions also affect our operating results. Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products. A worsening of business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business could have adverse effects on our business, including the following: 

&#8226; A decrease in the demand for, or the availability of, loans and other products and services offered by us; 

&#8226; A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; 

&#8226; An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; 

&#8226; A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to declines in interest rates; and 

&#8226; An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us, which could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provisions for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. 

In the event of severely adverse business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business, there can be no assurance that the federal government and the Federal Reserve would intervene. Further, the trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic (including variant strains and resurgences of the COVID-19 virus) and its effects on the U.S. and global economy remains uncertain, as does the success of any measures taken or that may be taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which ultimately may not be sufficient to address the specific effects of the pandemic or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity. If economic conditions worsen or volatility increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which may lead to increased costs for businesses and consumers and potentially contribute to poor business and economic conditions generally, may enhance or contribute to some of the risks discussed herein. For example, higher inflation, or volatility and uncertainty related to inflation, could reduce demand for the our products, adversely affect the creditworthiness of the Company&#8217;s borrowers or result in lower values for our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. In response to sustained inflationary pressures, the Federal Reserve increased interest rates by 25 basis points on March 16, 2022 and by an additional 50 basis points on May 4, 2022. The Federal Reserve has also signaled its intention to continue to raise interest rates over the course of 2022 and has announced that it will begin to taper its purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities and treasury securities. To the extent these policies do not mitigate the volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, or to the extent conditions otherwise worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Fluctuations in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. 

Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (primarily loans, leases, investment securities and cash balances held at the FRB) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest-earning assets, the average balance of interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the FOMC and interest rates markets. 

The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on market-based liquidity and short-term interest rates, the level of which is influenced heavily by the FOMC&#8217;s monetary policy. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by both short-term and longer-term interest rates. Longer-term rates are affected by multiple factors including the actions of the FOMC such as quantitative easing or tightening, as well as the market&#8217;s expectations for future inflation, growth and other economic considerations. The level of net interest income is, therefore, influenced by the overall level of interest rates along with the shape of the yield curve. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. Our net interest income would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest-earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. 

The low benchmark federal funds interest rate of the last several years implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic is ending. The Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate by 25 basis points on March 16, 2022 and by an additional 50 basis points on May 4, 2022. The Federal Reserve has signaled that there will be additional federal funds interest rate increases during the remainder of 2022. While an increasing rate environment would have a positive impact on net interest income, increasing rates would also increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers and may adversely affect those borrowers&#8217; ability to pay as contractually obligated and could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs. Our results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected as a result. Conversely, should interest rates move lower, we would expect modest declines in net interest income over the next twelve months given the protection that remains in place from the Company&#8217;s interest rate hedging program. 

For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the &#8220;First Quarter Overview&#8221;, &#8220;Net Interest Income and Margin,&#8221; &#8220;Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk&#8221; and &#8220;Securities&#8221; sections of Item 2. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the &#8220;Executive Overview&#8221;, &#8220;Net Interest Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk,&#8221; &#8220;Net Interest Income and Margin,&#8221; &#8220;Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk&#8221; and &#8220;Securities&#8221; sections of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. 

We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and examination governing almost all aspects of our operations, which limits the businesses in which we may permissibly engage. The laws and regulations governing our business are intended primarily for the protection of our depositors, our customers, the financial system and the FDIC insurance fund, not our shareholders or other creditors. These laws and regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control, maintenance of adequate capital, and general business operations and financial condition (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends and repurchases of our capital securities, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Further, we must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in many activities, and our regulators have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely. There can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require or otherwise seek will be obtained. 

Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified or repealed at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries, including any changes resulting from the recent change in U.S. presidential administration and change in control of the U.S. Senate. 

In addition, as climate change issues become more prevalent, the U.S. and foreign governments are beginning to respond to these issues. The increasing governmental focus on climate change may result in new environmental regulations, including disclosure required by the SEC, that could result in additional compliance costs. 

Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory capital position is discussed in greater detail in the "Regulatory Requirements" section in Item 1. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Results of Operations of this Form 10-Q and Note 12 &#8220;Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

