Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to Morgan Stanley, maintaining the original formatting:

```
morgan_stanley_2024_Q3

          EXCHANGE --- Morgan Stanley Deploys AI Tool --- The company, aided by OpenAI, built the generative AI
          application in-house ................................................................................................................................................. 2

          EXCHANGE---MorganStanleyDeploysAITool---Thecompany,aidedbyOpenAI,builtthegenerativeAIapplicationin-house

          EXCHANGE --- Morgan Stanley Deploys AI Tool --- The company, aided by OpenAI, built the
          generative AI application in-house                                      

          Morgan Stanley said it finished deploying its second generative artificial-intelligence application to financial
          advisers, favoring homegrown solutions over out-of-the-box tooling from tech providers.
          The new tool, AI@Morgan Stanley Debrief, which summarizes video meetings and generates drafts of
          follow-up emails based on them, was Morgan Stanley's second generative AI use case built in collaboration
          with OpenAI. It follows the September 2023 rollout of its AI knowledge assistant tool that helps financial
          advisers quickly track down information from Morgan Stanley research.   
          Morgan Stanley's approach of working directly with model builders rather than just grabbing off-the-shelf
          technology is becoming more common across the financial-services industry, said Alexandra Mousavizadeh,
          co-founder and chief executive of Evident, which tracks AI adoption across the sector.
          With a build approach, "you get to design it, make it to fit into your workflows and just make it more
          seamless," Mousavizadeh said. Regarding tools like Morgan Stanley's, she said, "The benefit of this app for a
          bank is that it's able to work with the data inside the bank and fit seamlessly into the workflow of the financial
          analyst. No doubt that this type of app will be incredibly useful in other sectors too," citing insurance and retail
          as examples.                                                            
          Both of Morgan Stanley's tools were built using OpenAI's GPT model and in consultation with OpenAI, as part
          of the strategic partnership the two companies signed in early 2022. Morgan Stanley said that after assessing
          the product landscape for this use case, it opted for customization and seamless integration afforded by
          building the tools in house with OpenAI's technology, rather than buying fully built solutions off the market.
          OpenAI Chief Operating Officer Brad Lightcap said, "Working closely with Morgan Stanley has been a great
          opportunity to build and deploy AI that meets the needs of a highly regulated industry."
          With Morgan Stanley's meeting summarization tool, "some people would argue, well, you can use Zoom to
          summarize it. Or you could use Teams to summarize it. That's true," said David Wu, Morgan Stanley's
          firmwide AI head of product & architecture strategy, but he added, "Even if the product may exist, there's
          advantages of building and customizing that solve our user needs better."

          For example, Morgan Stanley financial advisers typically use Microsoft Outlook for email, Zoom for meetings
          and Salesforce to keep notes from the meetings. By customizing a homegrown tool, the company was able to
          integrate with all of those systems.                                    
          Wu noted that buying has typically been the company's modus operandi in the past. But he said, based on
          the current level of maturity of out-of-the-box offerings, building makes more sense.

```