Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., as per your instructions:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2024_Q3

Jim Covello, Goldman Sachs's head of stock research, warned that building too much of what the world doesn't need ''typically ends badly.''                                  
As Jim Covello's car barreled up Highway 101 from San Jose to San Francisco this month, he counted the billboards about artificial intelligence. The nearly 40 signs he passed, including one that promoted something called Writer Enterprise AI and another for Speech AI, were fresh evidence, he thought, of an economic bubble.                                                                 
Mr. Covello, the head of stock research at Goldman Sachs, has become Wall Street's leading A.I. skeptic. Three months ago, he jolted markets with a research paper that challenged whether businesses would see a sufficient return on what by some estimates could be $1 trillion in A.I. spending in the coming years. He said generative artificial intelligence, which can summarize text and write software code, made so many mistakes that it was questionable whether it would ever reliably solve complex problems.
The Goldman paper landed days after a partner at Sequoia Capital, a venture firm, raised similar questions in a blog post about A.I. Their skepticism marked a turning point for A.I.-related stocks, leading to a reassessment of Wall Street's hottest trade.                            
Goldman's basket of A.I. stocks, which is managed by a separate arm of the firm and includes Nvidia, Microsoft, Apple, Alphabet, Amazon, Meta and Oracle, has declined 7 percent from its peak on July 10, as investors and business leaders debate whether A.I. can justify its staggering costs.

But Mr. Covello, 51, has experience with tech booms and busts. He followed the bursting of the dot-com bubble as a semiconductor analyst and was scarred by watching colleagues lose their jobs. More recently, the Goldman veteran joined an internal team that has been evaluating A.I. services for the firm to use. He said the services he reviewed were costly, cumbersome and not ''smart enough to make employees smarter.''

Goldman's clients asked to hear more. At their request, the firm began hosting private bull-and-bear debates with Mr. Lee, as the bull, outlining his optimism about A.I., and Mr. Covello, as the bear, explaining his pessimism.                                                              

In 2000, he joined Goldman Sachs as tech analyst. That summer, the firm gathered at a vineyard in Napa Valley for an enthusiastic company meeting about the tech industry. But the internet boom, which had already crested, began to crash in the months that followed.                    
Mr. Covello kept his job. At the time, Goldman was reducing its costs by replacing experienced analysts with younger employees. It promoted Mr. Covello to be its lead semiconductor analyst in 2001 and elevated him to be the head of global equity research in 2021.                          

To create A.I. businesses, experts predicted, $1 trillion would be spent on data centers, utilities and applications. Mr. Covello thought those costs made it impossible for the industry to inexpensively solve real-world problems, which is what internet companies did decades ago.  

Word of Mr. Covello's skepticism spread at the firm. Allison Nathan, who edits a monthly research report called ''Top of Mind,'' was planning an issue on A.I. On a colleague's recommendation, she met with Mr. Covello.                                                                
Ms. Nathan decided to interview Mr. Covello for the report. The conversation helped frame the 31-page report's title, ''Gen AI: Too Much Spend, Too Little Benefit?''         
It was one of the most well-read reports in the publication's 12-year history.

At Goldman's annual tech conference this month in San Francisco, the firm put Mr. Covello and Mr. Lee before a few hundred people to explain their diverging views on A.I. Mr. Covello focused on the technology's shortcomings, citing a Business Insider article about a pharmaceutical company that canceled its Microsoft A.I. services after finding the capabilities on a par with ''middle school presentations.''

Mr. Covello predicts that the A.I. boom will lose steam when the companies that are adopting the technology cut spending after their profits dip. He doesn't think that will set off another dot-com recession. But each day, he is reassessing his position.                                         

GOLDMAN SACHS                                                           
GS +2.6%                                                                
Goldman Sachs on Monday posted a 21% increase in investment-banking revenue in the second quarter, joining many of its peers with double-digit gains as dealmaking recovers. Since the firm decided to wind down its consumer-lending business, Goldman has refocused on its Wall Street operations. The bank's overall profit increased 150% from a year ago -- when it took losses from its consumer-lending exit -- to $3.04 billion. Goldman shares advanced 2.6% Monday.                                    

Goldman Sachs posted a 21% increase in investment-banking revenue in the second quarter from a year ago, joining a slew of other big banks with double-digit gains as dealmaking on Wall Street accelerated.
"From what we're seeing, we are in the early innings of a capital markets and M&A recovery," Goldman Chief Executive David Solomon said on a call with analysts on Monday.         
Goldman's overall profit increased 150% from a year ago, when the bank took losses from its consumer-lending exit, to $3.04 billion.                                
Goldman has refocused on its Wall Street operations after deciding to exit from consumer lending and reported a 27% revenue jump in its asset- and wealth-management business. 

A more stable outlook for interest rates is giving bankers renewed hope that dealmaking is emerging from a two-year drought.                                                       
Still, they remain hyper-aware that an economic setback or political upheaval could derail activity at any moment.                                                                 

Goldman's investment-banking revenue increased 21%, though it was down from the bank's first quarter this year, as were Citi's and Wells Fargo's. This marks the second consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in Goldman's investment-banking fees following two years of mostly declines. Solomon said the firm's investment-banking backlog increased significantly.                     

Meanwhile, trading revenue at Goldman totaled $6.35 billion, up 12%, helped by lending to institutional clients. Goldman has been pushing into this type of lending, which offers more predictable revenue. The company views this as a way to get a bigger share of clients' overall business and create a stickier relationship with them.                                                 
Goldman's results Monday showed how crucial its asset- and wealth-management business is to the firm's overall profit and revenue.
```