Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Charles Schwab Corporation, with all titles, headers, footers, and other non-content elements removed:

```
```
charles_schwab_corporation,_the_2024_Q3

Charles Schwab's biggest moneymaker is its bank. It is also a sore spot the company is trying to fix.
Schwab's playbook of making easy money on customer deposits was upended when interest rates rose
rapidly and people moved their cash to chase higher yields. Now, Schwab is looking to change how it uses
customer deposits, and make more money from lucrative services including loans and financial advice.
There is a lot riding on the makeover. While Schwab is the largest publicly traded U.S. brokerage, roughly
half of its revenue comes from the bank. Banking helped Schwab cut trading fees over the years and
eventually eliminate commissions on online stock trades.                
Executives haven't specified the timing or magnitude of potential changes, so it isn't clear what Schwab's
bank will ultimately look like. Schwab has called 2024 a transition year, but the market is skeptical.
After a 17% pullback in 2023, Schwab's stock is down about 6% year to date, while the broader S&P 500 is
up 18%.                                                                 

"Their track record on execution over the last couple years has not been good as it relates to balance-sheet
management," said Bill Katz, a research analyst at TD Cowen who downgraded his rating on Schwab after
second-quarter earnings.                                                
Schwab is in the midst of a C-suite shake-up. Chief Financial Officer Peter Crawford is retiring and is set to
be succeeded on Oct. 1 by Mike Verdeschi, formerly Citigroup's treasurer. Chief Operating Officer Joe
Martinetto earlier this year became executive chairperson of Schwab Banks, and Bernie Clark, head of
adviser services, moved to an advisory role.                            
Banks make money off customer deposits in a variety of ways. At Schwab, the focus has largely been on
investing the cash in such assets as Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities, and less so on making loans
directly to consumers and businesses.                                   
That strategy was squeezed when rates rose. The value of the longer-term bonds in Schwab's investment
portfolio declined, just as many customers moved their deposits into higher-yielding alternatives such as
money-market funds. To avoid taking losses on its longer-term investments, Schwab had to turn to pricier
short-term funding sources, such as borrowing from the Federal Home Loan Bank system.
Schwab is now looking to make its bank more nimble. On the company's earnings call last month, Walt
Bettinger, chief executive officer and co-chairman, said Schwab plans to put more of its investment portfolio
into shorter-term assets. It might also offload more of its deposits to third-party banks.
"These various actions should lead -- again, over time -- to a bank that is somewhat smaller than our bank
has been in recent years," Bettinger said.                              

By outsourcing deposits, Schwab can shrink its balance sheet and free up capital, which the company could
reinvest into the business or return to shareholders by doing share buybacks.
"It provides us with greater flexibility," Crawford said in an interview.

Schwab already offloads some deposits to TD Bank, which offers a model for how such arrangements might
work. TD Bank pays Schwab a monthly fee for the deposits, and Schwab pays a service fee to TD Bank.
The arrangement brought in about $153 million of revenue for Schwab in the second quarter, on average
balances of $87 billion swept off its balance sheet. In comparison, Schwab made more than $2 billion of net
interest revenue during the same period from a mix of assets, which were mostly funded by the bank deposits
on its balance sheet.                                                   

Analysts largely believe the shift in bank strategy could benefit Schwab over time, but some question how
Schwab would replace its interest-related earnings.                     
A Schwab spokesperson said that the company would only consider offloading more deposits if doing so was
beneficial for customers and shareholders, and that such a move would take years.
Meanwhile, executives see plenty of room to use deposits for lending. Schwab only had about $40 billion of
bank loans on its balance sheet in the latest quarter, compared with more than $250 billion of deposits. Those
loans had an average interest rate of 4.4% in the second quarter.       

Schwab's bank loans are primarily mortgages, home equity lines of credit and pledged asset lines, which use
customer portfolios as collateral. The company said it is investing in technology to streamline the loan
application and approval process, and hiring experienced bankers to work on more-complex loans.
Another area Schwab wants to expand is its financial advice and wealth management services, which bring in
fee-based revenue that isn't as dependent on market conditions. Advice solutions brought in about $510
million in the second quarter, accounting for 11% of total revenue.     
Schwab will be competing with such banking giants as JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley. But Schwab thinks it has an advantage: former customers of TD Ameritrade, which the company
acquired in 2020. Those customers were converted to Schwab accounts recently, and Schwab thinks it can
get them to use more of its services.                                   
Some analysts said Schwab won't be able to shift its strategy until its balance-sheet troubles are behind it. In
the second quarter, bank deposits continued to decline and Schwab was still paying off short-term
borrowings.                                                             
Another headache: More than $150 billion of its balance sheet remained tied up in assets that are held to
maturity, meaning they won't be sold. Those assets earned an average yield of 1.7%, well below the Federal
Reserve's current benchmark interest rate of 5.25% to 5.5%.             
"It all comes down to the bank," said Alex Blostein, an analyst at Goldman Sachs.

Dr. William Auch couldn't access his brokerage account as the stock market tumbled on Monday morning.
Shortly after the U.S. market opened, he tried to log into his Charles Schwab account. He
saw stocks were selling off and thought it could be a good opportunity to buy shares at a lower price. Instead,
he was locked out of his account for a few hours, unable to sign in online or through the mobile app, or to
reach a customer-service representative over the phone.                 
"You have one of the biggest trading days of the year and you can't get in," said Auch, a 65-year-old in
Sacramento, Calif. "It's completely ridiculous."                        
Charles Schwab acknowledged that some customers experienced
difficulties logging into their accounts on Monday morning. The brokerage said the issues had been resolved
by around midday. It is unclear exactly how many customers experienced problems with their brokerages, but
thousands of users reported outages on downdetector.com.                
A spokesperson for Schwab said the platform experienced the highest level of volatility during the first few
trading hours of Monday's session since the early days of the pandemic. The spokesperson said elevated
trading volumes and a technical issue with a key vendor affected its systems, which led to the logon issues
and longer call wait times. Schwab didn't specify which vendor affected its operations.
Monday's technical issues came just a few weeks after a botched update from cybersecurity company
CrowdStrike disrupted everything from air travel to payments around the world, including some online
functions for Schwab customers.                                         
Retail brokerages have a long history of becoming inaccessible to their customers at periods of heavy market
volatility -- often when investors are most eager to log in and adjust their portfolios. As customers pile into
their accounts, it can overload the systems that connect brokerages' websites and apps to the underlying
plumbing that manages their stock trades and account balances.          
During the Covid-19 pandemic, outages repeatedly hit brokerages such as Schwab.
Monday's glitches show the problem hasn't gone away.                    

"Every time there's a large market move, it seems like this happens," said Chris Nagy, a former managing
director at TD Ameritrade who now works for Healthy Markets Association, an investor-advocacy group. "It
makes you wonder, Have the brokers really done anything to improve their technology?"
```
```