as requested:

```
```
Several banks and consumer-finance companies, led by Wells Fargo & Co. and Capital One Financial Corp.,
more than hold their own in innovation, as gauged by the Drucker Institute's measure of corporate
effectiveness. In fact, their innovation scores put them in the top 30 among all 846 firms that we tracked in
2021, ahead of chip maker Nvidia Corp., pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly & Co. and wireless company Verizon
Communications Inc.                                                     
Capital One, with an absolute innovation score of 62.0 last year, scored particularly high on patent
applications, patent abandonment and its number of R&D-related job listings. It has been positioning itself as
a technology leader for years and has been hiring thousands of software engineers as it shifts its data,
applications and IT systems to the cloud.                               

The members-only wholesale club is moving its co-branded credit cards to Capital One Financial Corp.,
according to people familiar with the matter.                           

But on his first attempt to buy plane tickets, this ambitious itinerary -- costing $2,932.48 -- got the attention of
Capital One, which blocked the charges.                                 
Mr. Lucas's fraud alerts were made possible by an invisible force tiptoeing into Wall Street: cloud computing.
Before moving into the cloud, his bank, Capital One, was limited to tracking fraud using the bandwidth of the
servers it owned. Now that it rents capacity from Amazon Web Services, the bank can use machine learning
to crunch numbers faster -- and on an enormous scale -- to detect anything out of the ordinary.
Capital One is all too aware of the risks. In 2019, it suffered one of the largest-ever thefts of data from a bank
after a hacker obtained the personal data of over 100 million people. The bank was fined $80 million by a
regulator and ordered to strengthen its security controls as it moved information-technology operations into
the cloud. It also agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit covering 98 million consumers for $190 million.
''Security of our customer data is of paramount importance, and we invested heavily in our cybersecurity
capabilities to defend that,'' said Mike Eason, Capital One's chief information officer for data and machine
learning in Richmond, Va.                                               
Despite the breach, Capital One said it had experienced huge benefits from migrating to the cloud. It shut all
eight of its data centers last year and runs its technology via AWS. As customers ramped up spending for
the holidays, the bank used rented servers to handle a seasonal surge in transactions, without having to pay
for all the servers year-round as it did before. It also plans to move most retail call-center operators to work
permanently from home.                                                  
The new arrangement works well for Rosie Hardy, a call center worker for Capital One in Tampa. In March
2020, with the pandemic raging, Ms. Hardy packed up her tech gear into a big cardboard box and drove
home to Gibsonton, Fla. Within an hour, she was back online from her spare bedroom bathed in natural light,
fielding calls from the bank's small-business customers.                
Ms. Hardy and her colleagues were untethered from phone banks because of a service that routes calls
through the cloud, enabling them to work remotely. ''You couldn't tell where I was. All I needed was internet
access, and I picked up like we never left,'' Ms. Hardy said.           
When Michael W. Lucas used his credit card to spend $2,932.48 on plane tickets, the charge was deemed
unusual and blocked. made it possible. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK HAGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES);
Capital One is among the banks that have embraced the cloud, but it was fined by regulators and ordered to beef up its risk
management. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)     
```
