Bank of America Corp. said Friday it is shaking up its top leadership team, installing new finance, technology
and legal chiefs and adding three women to its senior ranks.            
The moves amount to the biggest overhaul of senior management in more than a decade, and they make
room for a fresh batch of leaders. Two longtime executives announced their retirements last month, and the
bank said Friday more executives will move into new roles or retire.    
Chief Executive Brian Moynihan, who has spent more than a decade at the helm, informed the board he
would like to continue in the top job for years to come, he said in a statement. Still, he has been pressured to
elevate rising talent on a leadership team that has been remarkably stable since the bank emerged from the
financial crisis years ago.                                             
Mr. Moynihan assembled a group of senior leaders to carry the bank through the last crisis, when financial
firms were in the crosshairs of regulators, investors and the public. But the pandemic-induced economic
collapse showed that Bank of America and its peers are far sturdier now. In recent years, banks have been
posting record earnings.                                                
That has given a number of big banks a chance to test out new leadership. JPMorgan Chase & Co. put two
CEO contenders in charge of its consumer operation in May. Morgan Stanley set up a four-way race for the
top spot in May. Citigroup Inc.'s new CEO took over earlier this year.  
At Bank of America, Alastair Borthwick, who most recently ran commercial banking, will become chief
financial officer. He will replace Paul Donofrio, who will focus on sustainable finance.
Aditya Bhasin was named chief technology and information officer, and Tom Scrivener will oversee
operations. The two collectively fill the position held by Cathy Bessant, who will be a vice chair of global
strategy, based in Europe.                                              
Lauren Mogensen will become general counsel, replacing David Leitch, who is retiring. Ms. Mogensen
previously oversaw compliance and operational risk.                     
Holly O'Neill will run retail banking, and Wendy Stewart will oversee commercial banking.
D. Steve Boland, who previously oversaw retail banking and consumer lending, will be chief administrative
officer. He replaces Andrea Smith, who will retire at the end of the year.
Other longtime leaders will stay in place with the same or additional responsibilities. Andy Sieg remains
president of Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. Jim DeMare continues to run trading, and Matthew Koder
stays atop the investment bank. Dean Athanasia, the president of consumer and small business banking, will
also oversee commercial and business business banking.                           

The nation's second-largest bank promoted several executives, although it's unlikely that any of them will
replace Brian Moynihan, the chief executive, anytime soon.              
Bank of America made sweeping changes to the company's leadership Friday that elevated several
executives, including three women, to senior jobs and all but guaranteed that Brian Moynihan, the chief
executive, would remain at the helm of the nation's second-largest bank for years to come.
The company promoted Alastair Borthwick, its current head of commercial banking in New York, to chief
financial officer. It also gave more responsibilities to Dean Athanasia, who runs the consumer-banking
division from Boston. Lauren Mogensen was elevated to general counsel.  
Mr. Moynihan is 61, and the race to succeed him is likely to be a long one. Senior executives being groomed
for top jobs typically need several years of experience helping to oversee all aspects of a company before
they are deemed eligible to take the helm.                              
Mr. Moynihan signaled his intention to stick around: In a letter to staff, he said the new cohort of leaders will
help him run the bank in accordance with a growth strategy he put in place in 2010 -- when he took the chief
executive job -- ''through its second decade, with me and with all of you.''
Mike Mayo, a banking analyst at Wells Fargo, said the changes were welcome, although given Mr.
Moynihan's plans, ''this might go down as one of the longest bake-offs to be a C.E.O.'' Mr. Mayo said that the
''number of chefs in the kitchen at the top'' could create issues, but added that it was ''an opportunity to see
the ability of the top executives to play well with others.''           
Succession at Wall Street's biggest banks is being followed closely as a generation of chief executives --
some of whom have been in their jobs since before the 2008 financial crisis, or shortly after -- approaches
retirement age. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is 65 and has been in the role since
2005. JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley have elevated younger executives, prompting more talk of succession.
Jane Fraser took over as chief executive of Citigroup from Michael Corbat this year, becoming the first
woman to run an American mega bank.                                     
The reshuffle at Bank of America comes after key managers who helped steer the firm out of the financial
crisis decided to retire or move on to jobs that were less focused on day-to-day operations. Anne Finucane,
the bank's vice chair and one of Wall Street's most powerful women, and Thomas K. Montag, its
hard-charging chief operating officer, are among those who will retire. 
Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., was vilified for its role in the mortgage meltdown and paid $76.1
billion in fines in the decade after the crash, the most among the nation's biggest banks. Mr. Moynihan took
charge in 2010, restoring profits and leading efforts to rebuild its reputation. During his nearly 12-year tenure,
Bank of America's stock has risen 165 percent. Mr. Moynihan once joked at a university event that his
doubters, who said he wouldn't last as the chief executive, should have bought a lot of the company's stock.
Mr. Mayo admitted he had been one of the naysayers. ''A little less than a decade ago, I thought that Brian
Moynihan should be fired as C.E.O., but now I think he's one of the best,'' he said.
Some of the changes were immediate, while others will take place later this year. Among the other moves: D.
Steve Boland, based in Charlotte, was promoted to chief administrative officer, and Aditya Bhasin was
appointed chief technology and information officer. Wendy Stewart, who was picked to run commercial
banking, and Holly O'Neill, who will lead retail banking, will report to Mr. Athanasia. The heads of the
investment-banking and trading divisions, as well as wealth management, will stay in place.

At Bank of America, one executive in that role is David Reilly, who manages technology for its banking and
markets operations worldwide. Mr. Reilly grew up in London's East End, did not go to college and got his start
in technology working the night shift in a London computer center, loading data-storage disks and cleaning
the printer.                                                            
He showed an aptitude for the work, and one promotion followed another, leading to senior posts at Goldman
Sachs, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley. He joined Bank of America a decade ago.
His career, Mr. Reilly said, was ''blessed by people willing to give me a chance.''
At Bank of America, Mr. Reilly has helped champion the effort to develop upwardly mobile career paths. Bank
workers volunteer thousands of hours a year to give talks and mentor recruits without college degrees. The
effort also involves regular talks with managers about next steps in a career.
Since 2018, through recruiting partnerships with nonprofits like NPower and Year Up, as well as community
colleges, the bank has hired more than 10,000 workers from low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.
Carolina Ferreira had low-paying jobs as a restaurant hostess and as a preschool teacher's assistant before
she took a four-month program at NPower in basic technology skills. It was enough to land a tech-support
internship at Bank of America in 2017.                                  
The internship was followed by a contract job and then a full-time position. She is now a technical support
analyst on the commodities trading desk, and makes more than $80,000 a year. ''I'm still pretty junior, but this
has been a big leap for me,'' said Ms. Ferreira, 26, who lives in Queens.
Bank of America has close ties with training programs that focus on developing the potential of people like
Ashantee Franklin.                                                      
Ms. Franklin, 24, lost her job at a dog day care and walking service after Covid-19 hit last year. She decided
to make the setback an opportunity, applied to the NPower program and completed the four-month course.
The dog care service had reopened and Ms. Franklin was back walking dogs when an NPower job-placement
coordinator called about an opening in an entry-level program at Bank of America. She applied, did well in
interviews and was accepted. ''I decided my time as a dog handler would come to an end,'' she said.
Ms. Franklin, who lives in Brooklyn, started her contract job at Bank of America in June as a technology
business analyst. Her starting salary is about double what she made in past years, which was less than
$20,000.                                                                

Fostering upward mobility in corporate America is the goal of OneTen, a coalition of companies committed to
hiring or promoting one million Black Americans to family-sustaining jobs over the next decade.
The coalition began in December with three dozen companies and has grown to 54. They are major
employers, including Accenture, AT&T, American Express, Bank of America, Cisco, Cleveland Clinic, Delta
Air Lines, IBM, Merck, Target, Verizon and Walmart.                     

JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., the two biggest banks in the U.S., at the end of June
together had nearly $1 trillion in unused commitments to lend to corporate clients. That is up 20% from a year
ago and a quarterly record at both banks.                               
"This virtuous circle of hiring workers and meeting customer spending will help drive the economy, and
hopefully will result in more line usage on our loans," Bank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan told
analysts last month.                                                    

When Vince Iyoriobhe joined Bank of America's investment banking division as a rookie analyst in 2017, he
planned to stick around just long enough to get the experience needed to pursue his dream career in another
corner of finance entirely -- private equity.                           
''I knew banking was going to be tough,'' Mr. Iyoriobhe, 26, said. But his attitude was: ''I'm going to do it for
two years and then go on to something else.''                           
Mr. Iyoriobhe -- who put in 90-hour weeks at Bank of America, sometimes going home only to shower -- is willing to do it for the
minimum time necessary to put it on his résumés. He now works at a private equity firm.

Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, said that wasn't necessarily a bad thing. ''They're
very talented kids, especially around the investment banking arena,'' he told Bloomberg TV this month. ''And
there's a lot of offers from private equity and other things that we're training them for our clients, and that's
OK, too.''                                                              

Before graduating from Mount Holyoke College in 2016, Areeba Kamal worked for a summer as a trading
intern handling complex bond products at Bank of America's Midtown Manhattan tower. She arrived around
8:30 a.m. and often stayed until 10:30 p.m., trying to learn the intricacies of her product. She sent money to
her family in Pakistan.                                                 
''If you're an international student, early on you realize your two options are finance and tech,'' said Ms.
Kamal, 29, noting that those fields offer the most pay and help with work visas.