goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2021_Q3

          Business News: Goldman to Buy Lender GreenSky for $2.2 Billion ........................................................................ 5
          Business News: Goldman's Petershill Plans Listing................................................................................................. 9
          Business News: Goldman, EQT Near Parexel Deal .............................................................................................. 23


          Business News: Goldman to Buy Lender GreenSky for $2.2 Billion          
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is buying specialty lender GreenSky Inc. for $2.2 billion, striking a deal it hopes
          will further its reinvention from Wall Street powerhouse to Main Street player.
          Goldman will pay roughly $12 a share in stock for GreenSky, which arranges loans for big one-time
          purchases like construction projects or cosmetic surgery. It works with thousands of merchants ranging from
          Home Depot Inc. to independent doctors and dentists, and pitches its loans as cheaper and more responsible
          alternatives to credit cards.                                           
          "Our goal is to build a real banking platform of the future," Goldman Chief Executive David Solomon said in
          an interview. "This moves us along in that journey."                    
          GreenSky went public in 2018 at a valuation of roughly $4 billion, part of a new crop of startups promising to
          reinvent how people borrow money. It has pitched itself as a technology platform connecting consumers who
          need help covering a major purchase and merchants eager to increase sales.
          But missed payments rose, exposing a business that looked more like a boom-and-bust lender than a
          growing software company. The banks that GreenSky relied on to buy the bulk of its loans -- the company
          isn't itself a bank and needs outside funding -- started to sour on the sector.
          The pandemic didn't help. Stay-at-home orders halted elective medical procedures. Renovation projects that
          it would have otherwise financed were snarled by supply-chain issues and labor shortages. GreenSky's stock
          is down about 70% from its peak.                                        
          The deal price is 55% higher than GreenSky's closing price Tuesday, though it includes a $445 million tax
          adjustment. David Zalik, GreenSky's founder and largest shareholder, will join Goldman as a partner, Mr.
          Solomon said.                                                           
          Goldman's consumer bank, Marcus, launched in 2016, now offers savings accounts, personal loans and
          investment advice. But without branches or a long history on Main Street, the firm has struck a series of
          partnerships to bring in customers -- with Apple Inc. to launch a credit card, with JetBlue Airways Corp. to
          lend to travelers, and with Amazon.com Inc. to finance inventory for independent sellers in the tech giant's
          marketplace. Buying GreenSky brings in thousands of merchants.          
          GreenSky is part of the "buy now, pay later" wave of companies offering loans that let consumers spread
          out purchases over weeks or months, usually at lower interest rates than credit cards. Deal making in that
          sector has ramped up this year, with Afterpay Ltd. selling to Square Inc. for $29 billion and PayPal Holdings
          Inc. buying Japan's Paidy Inc. for $2.7 billion. Those companies mostly finance online purchases, while
          GreenSky peddles its loans through bricks-and-mortar merchants and home-renovation contractors.
          Goldman has long been averse to takeovers, preferring to nurture its own talent and build internally. It has
          been more acquisitive under Mr. Solomon, a former deal maker who took the top job in 2018. It bought a
          network of financial advisers in 2019 and last month struck a deal for a European money manager.
          Goldman flirted with acquiring GreenSky two years ago, when GreenSky sought potential buyers after its
          shares tumbled. Those talks fizzled; the company restarted a sales process earlier this year.
          GreenSky in July reached a settlement with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to resolve what the
          regulator called "careless business and customer service practices" that allowed merchants and contractors
          to take out loans on behalf of thousands of customers who didn't ask for them. GreenSky agreed to cancel up
          to $9 million in outstanding loans and pay a $2.5 million penalty.      


          Business News: Goldman's Petershill Plans Listing                       
          LONDON -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s Petershill Partners said Monday it plans to list an investment
          vehicle on the London Stock Exchange, taking advantage of a sizzling market for private equity.
          The London-based business, which invests in private equity and hedge-fund firms that collectively manage
          $187 billion in assets, is tapping into investors' desire for juicy returns amid perennially low interest rates. The
          deal, which would see Petershill's vehicle as a stand-alone company operated by Goldman Sachs Asset
          Management, could value it at more than $5 billion, said people familiar with the matter.
          Founded in 2007, Petershill plans to raise $750 million by selling new shares and will separately sell existing
          shares. Some of the firms Petershill invested in include Francisco Partners, Caxton Associates LP and
          Pelham Capital Ltd. Following the offering of new and existing shares, at least a quarter of the new vehicle's
          shares will be listed.                                                  
          The listing comes during a buoyant time for private equity. The industry has attracted hundreds of billions of
          dollars from investors over the course of the pandemic. The share prices of large private-equity firms such as
          Blackstone Group Inc. have skyrocketed.                                 
          A public listing would give Petershill a new source of capital to help fund additional investments. Petershill
          has targeted firms that manage technology investments since 2017 and recently launched a focus on
          healthcare and environmental, social and governance matters.            
          The listing is part of Goldman's efforts to capitalize on its asset-management businesses.


          Business News: Goldman, EQT Near Parexel Deal                           
          EQT AB and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s investment arm are in advanced talks to buy contract-research
          organization Parexel International Corp. for nearly $9 billion including debt, according to people familiar with
          the matter, the latest healthcare deal for the private-equity firm.     
          Parexel runs clinical trials and provides other services for drugmakers and is owned by Pamplona Capital
          Management. A sale to EQT and Goldman could be completed this week, assuming talks don't fall apart, the
          people said. The business, which is based in Massachusetts and North Carolina, had drawn interest from
          both private-equity and strategic bidders, they said.                   
          EQT oversees 67 billion euros in assets, equivalent to about $79 billion, and its focuses include real estate,
          technology, infrastructure and healthcare.