 Item 1. Business 

Our Business 

Ally Financial Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, Ally, the Company, or we, us, or our) is a leading digital financial-services company with $182.1 billion in assets as of December 31, 2021. As a customer-centric company with passionate customer service and innovative financial solutions, we are relentlessly focused on &#8220;Doing it Right&#8221; and being a trusted financial-services provider to our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers. We are one of the largest full-service automotive finance operations in the United States and offer a wide range of financial services and insurance products to automotive dealerships and consumers. Our award-winning digital direct bank (Ally Bank, Member FDIC and Equal Housing Lender) offers mortgage lending, point-of-sale personal lending, consumer credit cards, and a variety of deposit and other banking products, including savings, money-market, and checking accounts, CDs, and IRAs. Additionally, we offer securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services through Ally Invest. Our corporate-finance business offers capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies. 

We are a Delaware corporation and are registered as a BHC under the BHC Act, and an FHC under the GLB Act. Our primary business lines are Dealer Financial Services, which is composed of our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance. Corporate and Other primarily consists of centralized corporate treasury activities, the management of our legacy mortgage portfolio, the activity related to Ally Invest, Ally Lending, and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments. Additionally, beginning in December 2021 with the acquisition of Fair Square, which we rebranded Ally Credit Card, financial information related to our credit card business is included within Corporate and Other. Ally Bank&#8217;s assets and operating results are included within our Automotive Finance, Mortgage Finance, and Corporate Finance segments, as well as Corporate and Other, based on its underlying business activities. As of December 31, 2021, Ally Bank had total assets of $172.8 billion, and total nonaffiliate deposits of $141.6 billion. 

Our long-term strategic objectives are centered around differentiating our company as a relentless ally for the financial well-being of our consumer, commercial, and corporate customers by (1) leveraging our &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; purpose-driven culture as we drive enhanced value for our customers, communities, employees, and stockholders, (2) growing and diversifying our leading automotive, insurance, and digital-bank platforms through increased scale and expanded product solutions, (3) driving ongoing customer growth and relationship deepening, (4) operating under efficient, disciplined risk management and capital allocation approaches, (5) out-executing our competition and creating differentiated advantages through continuous investment and evolution among our leading experiences, products, and brand, and (6) delivering long-term value evident through sustainable financial results and stockholder returns. We seek to extend our leading position in automotive finance in the United States by continuing to provide automotive dealers and their retail customers with premium service, a comprehensive product suite, consistent funding, and competitive pricing&#8212;reflecting our commitment to the automotive industry. Within our Automotive Finance and Insurance operations, we are also focused on strengthening our network of dealer relationships and pursuing digital distribution channels for our products and services, including through our operation of a direct-lending platform and our work with dealers innovating in digital transactions&#8212;all while maintaining an appropriate level of risk appetite. Within our other banking operations&#8212;including Mortgage Finance and Corporate Finance&#8212;we seek to expand our consumer and commercial banking products and services while providing a high level of customer service. Ally Lending currently serves medical, retail, and home improvement service providers by enabling promotional and fixed rate installment-loan products through a digital application process at point-of-sale. We continue to focus on delivering significant and sustainable growth and retention in deposit customers and balances while optimizing our cost of funds. At Ally Invest, we seek to augment our securities-brokerage and investment-advisory services to more comprehensively assist our customers in managing their savings and wealth. Additionally, we acquired Fair Square in December 2021, which provides us with a scalable, digital-first credit card platform, and advances our evolution as a leading digital consumer bank. Ally Credit Card (formerly Fair Square) features leading-edge technology, and a proprietary, analytics-based underwriting model. We believe the addition of credit card to our suite of products enhances our ability to grow and deepen both new and existing customer relationships. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply. The term &#8220;loans&#8221; means the following consumer and commercial products associated with our direct and indirect financing activities: loans, retail installment sales contracts, lines of credit, and other financing products excluding operating leases. The term &#8220;operating leases&#8221; means consumer- and commercial-vehicle lease agreements where Ally is the lessor and the lessee is generally not obligated to acquire ownership of the vehicle at lease-end or compensate Ally for the vehicle&#8217;s residual value. The terms &#8220;lend,&#8221; &#8220;finance,&#8221; and &#8220;originate&#8221; mean our direct extension or origination of loans, our purchase or acquisition of loans, or our purchase of operating leases as applicable. The term &#8220;consumer&#8221; means all consumer products associated with our loan and operating-lease activities and all commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;commercial&#8221; means all commercial products associated with our loan activities, other than commercial retail installment sales contracts. The term &#8220;partnerships&#8221; means business arrangements rather than partnerships as defined by law. 

For further details and information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide, refer to the MD&#38;A in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Industry and Competition 

The markets for automotive financing, insurance, banking (including corporate finance, mortgage finance, point-of-sale personal lending, and consumer credit cards), securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory services are highly competitive. We directly compete in the automotive financing market with banks, credit unions, captive automotive finance companies, and independent finance companies. Our insurance business also faces significant competition from automotive manufacturers, captive automotive finance companies, insurance carriers, third-party administrators, brokers, and other insurance-related companies. Some of these competitors in automotive financing and insurance, such as captive automotive finance companies, have certain exclusivity privileges with automotive manufacturers whose customers and dealers make up a significant portion of our customer base. In addition, our banking, securities-brokerage, and investment-advisory businesses face intense competition from banks, savings associations, finance companies, credit unions, mutual funds, investment advisers, asset managers, brokerage firms, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage-banking companies, and credit-card companies. Financial-technology (fintech) companies also compete with us directly and in partnership with other banks and financial-services providers in lending, deposits, securities-brokerage, investment-advisory, and other markets. 

Many of our competitors have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. Some also have significantly greater scale, financial and operational resources, investment capacity, and brand recognition. Our competitors may be subject to different and, in some cases, less stringent legislative, regulatory, and supervisory regimes than Ally. A range of competitors differ from us in their strategic and tactical priorities and, for example, may be willing to suffer meaningful financial losses in the pursuit of disruptive innovation and customer growth or to accept more aggressive business, compliance, and other risks in the pursuit of higher returns and market valuations. Competition affects every aspect of our business, including product and service offerings and features, rates, pricing and fees, credit limits, and customer service. Successfully competing in our markets also depends on our ability to innovate, to invest in technology and infrastructure, to execute transactions reliably and efficiently, to maintain and enhance our reputation, and to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, all while effectively managing risks and expenses. We expect that competition will only intensify in the future. 

Regulation and Supervision 

We are subject to significant regulatory frameworks in the United States&#8212;at federal, state, and local levels&#8212;that affect the products and services that we may offer and the manner in which we may offer them, the risks that we may take, the ways in which we may operate, and the corporate and financial actions that we may take. We also have limited businesses and operations in Canada and other countries that must comply with expansive legal frameworks there as well. 

We are also subject to direct supervision and periodic examinations by various governmental agencies and industry SROs that are charged with overseeing the kinds of business activities in which we engage, including the FRB, the UDFI, the FDIC, the CFPB, the SEC, FINRA, and a number of state regulatory and licensing authorities such as the NYDFS. These agencies and organizations generally have broad authority and discretion in restricting and otherwise affecting our businesses and operations and may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us when, in the applicable agency&#8217;s or organization&#8217;s judgment, our businesses or operations fail to comply with applicable law, comport with safe and sound practices, or meet its supervisory expectations. 

This system of regulation, supervision, and examination is intended primarily for the protection and benefit of our depositors and other customers, the FDIC&#8217;s DIF, the banking and financial systems as a whole, and the broader economy&#8212;and not for the protection or benefit of our stockholders (except in the case of securities laws) or non-deposit creditors. The scope, intensity, and focus of this system can vary from time to time for reasons that range from the state of the economic and political environments to the performance of our businesses and operations, but for the foreseeable future, we expect to remain subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examinations. 

This section summarizes some relevant provisions of the principal statutes, regulations, and other laws that apply to us. The descriptions, however, are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by the full text and judicial or administrative interpretations of those laws and other laws that affect us. 

Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status 

Ally and IB Finance, a Delaware limited liability company, are BHCs under the BHC Act. Ally is also an FHC under the GLB Act. IB Finance is a direct subsidiary of Ally and the direct parent of Ally Bank, which is a commercial bank that is organized under the laws of the State of Utah and whose deposits are insured by the FDIC under the FDI Act. As BHCs, Ally and IB Finance are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the FRB. Ally Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the FRB, the UDFI, the FDIC, and the CFPB. 

&#8226; Permitted Activities &#8212; Under the BHC Act, BHCs and their subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and to closely related activities that are incident to banking. The GLB Act amended the BHC Act and created a regulatory framework for FHCs, which are BHCs that meet certain qualifications and elect FHC status. FHCs, directly or indirectly through their nonbank subsidiaries, are generally permitted to engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than those that are permissible for BHCs&#8212;for example, (1) underwriting, dealing in, and making a market in securities; (2) providing financial, investment, and economic advisory services; (3) underwriting insurance; and (4) merchant banking activities. The FRB regulates, supervises, and examines FHCs, as it does all BHCs, but insurance and securities activities conducted by an FHC or any of its nonbank subsidiaries are also regulated, supervised, and examined by functional regulators such as state insurance commissioners, the SEC, or FINRA. The expanded powers permitted to FHCs include the ability to provide insurance products and services, to deliver our SmartAuction finder services and a number of related vehicle-remarketing services for third parties, and to offer certain kinds of brokerage and 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

advisory services. To remain eligible to conduct and expand these broader financial and related activities, Ally must continue to be treated as an FHC. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section below titled Basel Capital Frameworks for additional information. In addition, our ability to expand these financial and related activities or to make acquisitions generally requires that we achieve a rating of satisfactory or better under the CRA. 

Further, under the BHC Act, we may be subject to approvals, conditions, and other restrictions when seeking to acquire control over another entity or its assets. For this purpose, &#8220;control&#8221; includes (a) directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding the power to vote 25% or more of any class of the entity&#8217;s voting securities, (b) controlling in any manner the election of a majority of the entity&#8217;s directors, trustees, or individuals performing similar functions, or (c) directly or indirectly exercising a controlling influence over the management or policies of the entity. Under rules of the FRB, whether Ally is presumed to have a &#8220;controlling influence&#8221; over an entity is determined by applying a framework of tiered presumptions of control that are based on the percentage of a class of voting securities held by Ally and nine other relationships with the entity. For example, Ally would be presumed to have such a controlling influence with less than 5% of a class of voting securities and any of the following: a management agreement with the entity, one-half or more of the directors on the entity&#8217;s board, or one-third or more of the total equity in the entity. 

&#8226; Enhanced Prudential Standards &#8212; Ally is subject to enhanced prudential standards that have been established by the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act. Targeted amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and other financial-services laws were enacted through the EGRRCP Act, including amendments that affect whether and, if so, how the FRB applies enhanced prudential standards to BHCs like us with $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets. Through final rules implementing these amendments&#8212;which are commonly known as the tailoring framework&#8212;the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies established four risk-based categories of prudential standards and capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The most stringent standards and requirements apply to U.S. global systemically important BHCs, which are assigned to Category I. The assignment of other banking organizations to the remaining three categories is based on measures of size and four other risk-based indicators: cross-jurisdictional activity, wSTWF, nonbank assets, and off-balance-sheet exposure. Under the tailoring framework, Ally is a Category IV firm and, as such, is (1) subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle (2) required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB, (3) exempted from company-run stress testing requirements, (4) required to maintain a buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net stressed cash outflows over a 30-day planning horizon, (5) exempted from the requirements of the LCR and the net stable funding ratio provided that our average wSTWF continues to remain under $50 billion, and (6) exempted from the requirements of the supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, and single-counterparty credit limits. We are subject to rules enabling the FRB to conduct supervisory stress testing on a more or less frequent basis based on our financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities or based on risks to the U.S. economy. Further, we are subject to rules requiring the resubmission of our capital plan if we determine that there has been or will be a material change in our risk profile, financial condition, or corporate structure since we last submitted the capital plan or if the FRB determines that (a) our capital plan is incomplete or our capital plan or internal capital adequacy process contains material weaknesses, (b) there has been, or will likely be, a material change in our risk profile (including a material change in our business strategy or any risk exposure), financial condition, or corporate structure, or (c) the BHC stress scenario(s) are not appropriate for our business model and portfolios, or changes in the financial markets or the macroeconomic outlook that could have a material impact on our risk profile and financial condition require the use of updated scenarios. While a resubmission is pending, without prior approval of the FRB, we would generally be prohibited from paying dividends, repurchasing our common stock, or making other capital distributions. In addition, to satisfy the FRB in its review of our capital plan, we may be required to further cease or limit these capital distributions or to issue capital instruments that could be dilutive to stockholders. The FRB also may prevent us from maintaining or expanding lending or other business activities. 

&#8226; Capital Adequacy Requirements &#8212; Ally and Ally Bank are subject to various capital adequacy requirements. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section below titled Basel Capital Frameworks for additional information. 

&#8226; Capital Planning and Stress Tests &#8212; Under the tailoring framework described earlier in Enhanced Prudential Standards , Ally is generally subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year cycle and exempted from mandated company-run capital stress testing requirements. Ally is also required to submit an annual capital plan to the FRB. Ally&#8217;s annual capital plan must include an assessment of its expected uses and sources of capital and a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any dividend or other capital distribution, and any similar action that the FRB determines could have an impact on our capital. The plan must also include a detailed description of Ally&#8217;s process for assessing capital adequacy, including a discussion of how Ally, under expected and stressful conditions, will maintain capital commensurate with its risks and above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, will serve as a source of strength to Ally Bank, and will maintain sufficient capital to continue its operations by maintaining ready access to funding, meeting its obligations to creditors and other counterparties, and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. 

In January 2021, the FRB issued a final rule effective April 5, 2021, to align its capital planning and stress capital buffer requirements with the tailoring framework. Refer to the section below titled Basel Capital Framework for further discussion about our stress capital buffer requirements. Under the final rule, unless otherwise directed by the FRB in specified circumstances, Ally and other Category IV firms are generally no longer required to calculate forward-looking projections of revenues, losses, reserves, and pro forma capital levels under scenarios provided by the FRB. Each firm continues to be required, however, to provide a forward-looking analysis of income and capital levels under expected and stressful conditions that are designed by the firm. In 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

addition, for Category IV firms, the final rule updated the frequency of calculating the portion of the stress capital buffer derived from the supervisory stress test to every other year. These firms have the ability to elect to participate in the supervisory stress test&#8212;and receive a correspondingly updated stress capital buffer requirement&#8212;in a year in which they would not generally be subject to the supervisory stress test. During a year in which a Category IV firm does not undergo a supervisory stress test, the firm would receive an updated stress capital buffer requirement that reflects its updated planned common-stock dividends. The final rule also includes reporting and other changes consistent with the tailoring framework. Ally did not opt into the 2021 supervisory stress test but will be subject to the 2022 supervisory stress test, with submissions due by April 5, 2022. 

We submitted our 2021 capital plan on April 5, 2021, which includes planned capital distributions to common stockholders through share repurchases and cash dividends over the nine-quarter planning horizon and other capital actions. During the second quarter of 2021, we issued $1.35 billion of Series B Preferred Stock and $1.0 billion of Series C Preferred Stock, both of which qualify as additional Tier 1 capital under U.S. Basel III. The proceeds from these issuances were used to redeem a portion of the Series 2 TRUPS then outstanding. Refer to Note 15 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details about these instruments and capital actions. In June 2021, we submitted an updated capital plan to the FRB reflecting these capital actions and increases in our stock-repurchase program and common-stock dividend. This updated capital plan was used by the FRB to recalculate Ally&#8217;s final stress capital buffer requirement, which was announced in August 2021 and remained unchanged at 3.5%. 

&#8226; Resolution Planning &#8212; Under rules of the FDIC, Ally Bank is required to periodically submit to the FDIC a resolution plan (commonly known as a living will) that would enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve Ally Bank in the event of its insolvency under the FDI Act in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of Ally Bank&#8217;s failure (two business days if the failure occurs on a day other than Friday), maximizes the net present value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss realized by the creditors in the resolution. If the FDIC determines that the resolution plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not adequately remedied in a timely manner, the FDIC may take formal or informal supervisory, enforcement, and other actions against us. Ally Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan on July 1, 2018. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comment on ways to tailor and improve its resolution-planning rules and, at the same time, delayed the next round of resolution-plan submissions until the rulemaking process has been completed. In January 2021 the FDIC announced that, given the passage of time since the last submission of resolution plans and the uncertain economic outlook, the FDIC will resume requiring resolution plan submissions for insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in assets, including Ally Bank. In June 2021 the FDIC outlined a modified approach to implementing its rule requiring these insured depository institutions to submit resolution plans. The modified approach extends the submission frequency to a three-year cycle, streamlines content requirements, and places enhanced emphasis on engagement with firms. Under the modified approach, resolution plans will be submitted in two groups, with the first group consisting of insured depository institutions, like Ally Bank, whose top-tier parent company is not a U.S. global systemically important bank or a Category II firm and the second group consisting of all other insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets. In August 2021, the FDIC notified Ally Bank that its next resolution plan submission is due on or before December 1, 2022. Under the tailoring framework described earlier in Enhanced Prudential Standards , Ally is no longer required to submit to the FRB and the FDIC a plan for the rapid and orderly resolution of Ally and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable insolvency laws in the event of future material financial distress or failure. 

&#8226; Limitations on Bank and BHC Dividends and Other Capital Distributions &#8212; Federal and Utah law place a number of conditions, limits, and other restrictions on dividends and other capital distributions that may be paid by Ally Bank to IB Finance and thus indirectly to Ally. In addition, even if the FRB does not require us to resubmit our capital plan as described earlier in Capital Planning and Stress Tests , Ally and IB Finance may be precluded from or limited in paying dividends or other capital distributions without the FRB&#8217;s approval under certain circumstances&#8212;for example, if Ally or IB Finance were to not meet minimum regulatory capital ratios after giving effect to the distributions. FRB supervisory guidance also directs BHCs like us to consult with the FRB prior to increasing dividends, implementing common-stock-repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Further, the U.S. banking agencies are authorized to prohibit an insured depository institution, like Ally Bank, or a BHC, like Ally, from engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices and, depending upon the circumstances, could find that paying a dividend or other capital distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. 

On January 10, 2022, our Board authorized a stock-repurchase program, permitting us to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock from time to time from the first quarter of 2022 through the fourth quarter of 2022, and an increase in our cash dividend on common stock from $0.25 per share for the fourth quarter of 2021 to $0.30 per share for the first quarter of 2022. For additional information on our capital actions, including our stock-repurchase program and dividends on our common stock, refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock, will continue to be subject to the FRB&#8217;s review and our internal governance requirements, including approval by our Board. The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases also will be subject to various factors, including Ally&#8217;s capital and liquidity positions, accounting and regulatory considerations (including any restrictions that may be imposed by the FRB), impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, financial and operational performance, alternative uses of capital, common-stock price, and general market conditions, and may be extended, modified, or discontinued at any time. 

&#8226; Transactions with Affiliates &#8212; Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB&#8217;s Regulation W prevent Ally and its nonbank subsidiaries from taking undue advantage of the benefits afforded to Ally Bank as a depository institution, including its access to federal deposit insurance and the FRB&#8217;s discount window. Pursuant to these laws, &#8220;covered transactions&#8221;&#8212;including Ally 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Bank&#8217;s extensions of credit to and asset purchases from its affiliates, credit exposures to affiliates arising from derivative transactions, securities lending and borrowing transactions, and the acceptance of affiliate-issued debt obligations (other than securities) as collateral&#8212;are generally subject to meaningful restrictions. For example, unless otherwise exempted, (1) covered transactions are limited to 10% of Ally Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus in the case of any individual affiliate and 20% of Ally Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus in the case of all affiliates; (2) Ally Bank&#8217;s credit transactions with an affiliate are generally subject to stringent collateralization requirements; (3) with few exceptions, Ally Bank may not purchase any &#8220;low quality asset&#8221; from an affiliate; and (4) covered transactions must be conducted on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices (collectively, Affiliate Transaction Restrictions). In addition, transactions between Ally Bank and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are either substantially the same as or more beneficial to Ally Bank than those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving nonaffiliates. 

These laws include an attribution rule that treats a transaction between Ally Bank and a nonaffiliate as a transaction between Ally Bank and an affiliate to the extent that the proceeds of the transaction are used for the benefit of or transferred to the affiliate. 

&#8226; Source of Strength &#8212; The Dodd-Frank Act codified the FRB&#8217;s policy requiring a BHC, like Ally, to serve as a source of financial strength for a depository-institution subsidiary, like Ally Bank, and to commit resources to support the subsidiary in circumstances when Ally might not otherwise elect to do so. The functional regulator of any nonbank subsidiary of Ally, however, may prevent that subsidiary from directly or indirectly contributing its financial support, and if that were to preclude Ally from serving as an adequate source of financial strength, the FRB may instead require the divestiture of Ally Bank and impose operating restrictions pending such a divestiture. 

&#8226; Single-Point-of-Entry Resolution Authority &#8212; Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a BHC whose failure would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States may be subjected to an FDIC-administered resolution regime called the orderly liquidation authority as an alternative to bankruptcy. If Ally were to be placed into receivership under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC as receiver would have considerable rights and powers in liquidating and winding up Ally, including the ability to assign assets and liabilities without the need for creditor consent or prior court review and the ability to differentiate and determine priority among creditors. In doing so, moreover, the FDIC&#8217;s primary goal would be a liquidation that mitigates risk to the financial stability of the United States and that minimizes moral hazard. Under the FDIC&#8217;s proposed single-point-of-entry strategy for the resolution of a systemically important financial institution under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would place the top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership, keep its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring them to a new bridge holding company, impose losses on the stockholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority, and address the problems that led to the institution&#8217;s failure. 

&#8226; Acceptance of Brokered Deposits &#8212; Under FDICIA and the PCA framework described later in Basel Capital Framework , insured depository institutions such as Ally Bank must be well capitalized or, with a waiver from the FDIC, adequately capitalized in order to accept brokered deposits, and even adequately capitalized institutions are subject to some restrictions on the rates they may offer for brokered deposits. At December 31, 2021, Ally Bank was well capitalized under the PCA framework. Brokered deposits totaled $4.7 billion at December 31, 2021, which represented 3.3% of Ally Bank&#8217;s total deposits. 

&#8226; Enforcement Authority &#8212; The FRB possesses extensive authorities and powers to regulate and supervise the conduct of Ally&#8217;s businesses and operations. If the FRB were to take the position that Ally or any of its subsidiaries have violated any law or commitment or engaged in any unsafe or unsound practice, formal or informal enforcement and other supervisory actions could be taken by the FRB against Ally, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties (such as directors, officers, and agents). The UDFI and the FDIC have similarly expansive authorities and powers over Ally Bank and its subsidiaries. For example, any of these governmental authorities could order us to cease and desist from engaging in specified activities or practices or could affirmatively compel us to correct specified violations or practices. Some or all of these governmental authorities also would have the power, as applicable, to issue administrative orders against us that can be judicially enforced, to direct us to increase capital and liquidity, to limit our dividends and other capital distributions, to restrict or redirect the growth of our assets, businesses, and operations, to compel us to change our practices and remediate harm alleged to have been suffered by consumers or others, to assess civil money penalties against us, to remove our officers and directors, to require the divestiture or the retention of assets or entities, to terminate deposit insurance, or to force us into bankruptcy, conservatorship, or receivership. These actions could directly affect not only Ally, its subsidiaries, and institution-affiliated parties but also Ally&#8217;s counterparties, stockholders, and creditors and its commitments, arrangements, and other dealings with them. 

In addition, the CFPB has broad authorities and powers to enforce federal consumer-protection laws involving financial products and services. The CFPB has exercised these authorities and powers through public enforcement actions, lawsuits, and consent orders and through nonpublic enforcement actions. 

The SEC, FINRA, the Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and other domestic or foreign governmental authorities also have an array of means at their disposal to regulate and enforce matters within their jurisdiction that could impact Ally&#8217;s businesses and operations. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Basel Capital Framework 

The FRB and other U.S. banking agencies have adopted risk-based and leverage capital standards that establish minimum capital-to-asset ratios for BHCs, like Ally, and depository institutions, like Ally Bank. 

The risk-based capital ratios are based on a banking organization&#8217;s RWAs, which are generally determined under the standardized approach applicable to Ally and Ally Bank by (1) assigning on-balance-sheet exposures to broad risk-weight categories according to the counterparty or, if relevant, the guarantor or collateral (with higher risk weights assigned to categories of exposures perceived as representing greater risk), and (2) multiplying off-balance-sheet exposures by specified credit conversion factors to calculate credit equivalent amounts and assigning those credit equivalent amounts to the relevant risk-weight categories. The leverage ratio, in contrast, is based on an institution&#8217;s average unweighted on-balance-sheet exposures. 

Under U.S. Basel III, Ally and Ally Bank must maintain a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%, and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8%. In addition to these minimum risk-based capital ratios, Ally and Ally Bank are subject to a capital conservation buffer requirement, which for Ally was 3.5% and for Ally Bank was 2.5% as of December 31, 2021. Failure to maintain more than the full amount of the capital conservation buffer requirement would result in automatic restrictions on the ability of Ally and Ally Bank to make capital distributions, including dividend payments and stock repurchases and redemptions, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. U.S. Basel III also subjects Ally and Ally Bank to a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. 

Prompted by the enactment of the EGRRCP Act, the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies tailored the capital and liquidity requirements that apply to large U.S. banking organizations. Refer to the section above titled Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status for additional information. In March 2020, the FRB issued a final rule to more closely align forward-looking stress testing results with the FRB&#8217;s non-stress regulatory capital requirements for BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets and other specified companies. The final rule introduced a stress capital buffer requirement based on firm-specific stress test performance and planned dividends, which for Ally replaced the fixed 2.5% component of the capital conservation buffer requirement. The final rule also made several changes to the CCAR process effective May 2020, such as eliminating the CCAR quantitative objection, narrowing the set of planned capital actions assumed to occur in the stress scenario, assuming that a firm maintains a constant level of assets over the planning horizon, eliminating the 30% dividend payout ratio as a criterion for heightened scrutiny of a firm&#8217;s capital plan, and allowing a firm to make capital distributions in excess of those included in its capital plan if the firm is otherwise in compliance with the automatic distribution limits of the capital framework. Under the final rule, Ally&#8217;s stress capital buffer requirement is the greater of 2.5% and the result of the following calculation: (1) the difference between Ally&#8217;s starting and minimum projected Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus (2) the sum of the dollar amount of Ally&#8217;s planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of its nine-quarter capital planning horizon, as a percentage of RWAs. For a Category IV firm like Ally, the capital conservation buffer requirement comprises the stress capital buffer requirement. The capital conservation buffer requirement applicable to Ally&#8217;s depository-institution subsidiary, Ally Bank, continues to be a fixed 2.5%. Ally received its first preliminary stress capital buffer requirement from the FRB in June 2020, which was determined under this new methodology to be 3.5%, was finalized in August 2020, and became effective in October 2020. In June 2020, the FRB also announced its determination that changes in financial markets or the macroeconomic outlook could have a material effect on the risk profiles and financial conditions of firms subject to the capital-plan rule and that, as a result, the firms (including Ally) would be required to resubmit capital plans to the FRB within 45 days after receiving updated stress scenarios from the FRB. On June 24, 2021, we received notification from the FRB that our stress capital buffer requirement would not be recalculated in connection with the second round of 2020 supervisory stress testing. 

Under applicable capital rules, the maximum amount of capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments that can be made by a banking organization, such as Ally or Ally Bank, is a function of its eligible retained income. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies expressed a concern that the definition of eligible retained income would not limit distributions in the gradual manner intended but instead could do so in a sudden and severe manner even if a banking organization were to experience only a modest reduction in its capital ratios. As a result, to better allow a banking organization to use its capital buffer as intended and continue lending in adverse conditions, the U.S. banking agencies issued an interim final rule that became effective in March 2020, and revised the definition of eligible retained income to the greater of (1) a banking organization&#8217;s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (2) the average of a banking organization&#8217;s net income over the preceding four quarters. This interim final rule was adopted as final with no changes effective January 1, 2021. 

Ally and Ally Bank are subject to the U.S. Basel III standardized approach for counterparty credit risk but not to the U.S. Basel III advanced approaches for credit risk or operational risk. Ally is also not subject to the U.S. market-risk capital rule, which applies only to banking organizations with significant trading assets and liabilities. 

The risk-based capital ratios and the Tier 1 leverage ratio play a central role in PCA, which is an enforcement framework used by the U.S. banking agencies to constrain the activities of depository institutions based on their levels of regulatory capital. Five categories have been established using thresholds for the Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the total risk-based capital ratio, and the Tier 1 leverage ratio: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including any payment of a cash dividend or a management fee to its BHC, if the depository institution would become undercapitalized after the distribution. An undercapitalized institution is also subject to growth limitations and must submit and fulfill a capital restoration plan. While BHCs are not subject to the PCA framework, the FRB is empowered to compel a BHC to take measures&#8212;such as the execution of financial or performance 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

guarantees&#8212;when PCA is required in connection with one of its depository-institution subsidiaries. At December 31, 2021, Ally Bank was well capitalized under the PCA framework. 

At December 31, 2021, Ally and Ally Bank were in compliance with their regulatory capital requirements. For an additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

On January 1, 2020, we adopted CECL, which is further described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2018, the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies approved a final rule to address the impact of CECL on regulatory capital by allowing BHCs and banks, including Ally, the option to phase in the day-one impact of CECL over a three-year period. In March 2020, the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies issued an interim final rule that became effective for the first quarter of 2020 and that provided BHCs and banks with an alternative option to temporarily delay an estimate of the impact of CECL, relative to the incurred loss methodology for estimating the allowance for loan losses, on regulatory capital. The interim final rule was clarified and adjusted in a final rule that became effective in September 2020. We elected this alternative option instead of the one described in the December 2018 rule. As a result, under the final rule, we delayed recognizing the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until after a two-year deferral period, which for us extended through December 31, 2021. Beginning on January 1, 2022, we are required to phase in 25% of the previously deferred estimated capital impact of CECL, with an additional 25% to be phased in at the beginning of each subsequent year until fully phased in by the first quarter of 2025. The estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital that we deferred and began phasing in on January 1, 2022, is generally calculated as the entire day-one impact at adoption plus 25% of the subsequent change in allowance during the two-year deferral period. As of December 31, 2021, the total deferred impact on Common Equity Tier 1 capital related to our adoption of CECL was $1.2 billion. 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee approved revisions to the global Basel III capital framework (commonly known as the Basel III endgame or as Basel IV), many of which&#8212;if adopted in the United States&#8212;could heighten regulatory capital standards. In March 2020, to better allow banking organizations to focus their resources on navigating the COVID-19 pandemic, the implementation date of these revisions was delayed by the Basel Committee from January 1, 2022, to January 1, 2023. At this time, how the revisions will be harmonized and finalized in the United States is not clear or predictable. 

Insured Depository Institution Status 

Ally Bank is an insured depository institution and, as such, is required to file periodic reports with the FDIC about its financial condition. Total assets of Ally Bank were $172.8 billion at December 31, 2021, $172.0 billion at December 31, 2020, and $167.5 billion at December 31, 2019. 

Ally Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC in the standard insurance amounts per depositor for each account ownership category as prescribed by the FDI Act. Deposit insurance is funded through assessments on Ally Bank and other insured depository institutions, and under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC assesses premiums from each institution based on its average consolidated total assets minus its average tangible equity, while utilizing a scorecard method to determine each institution&#8217;s risk to the DIF. The FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DIF is not funded to its regulatory-mandated Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR). Currently, the FDIC is required to maintain a DRR of 1.35% under the FDI Act. In 2020, due to extraordinary growth in insured deposits after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the DIF reserve ratio fell below the 1.35% statutory minimum. The FDI Act requires that the FDIC adopt a restoration plan when the DIF reserve ratio falls below 1.35% or is expected to do so within six months. The plan must restore the DIF reserve ratio to at least 1.35% within eight years, absent extraordinary circumstances. On September 15, 2020, the FDIC announced its restoration plan, projecting the DIF reserve ratio to return to a level above 1.35% without any increase to the deposit insurance assessment rate schedule while committing to closely monitor economic conditions, the health of the banking sector, and deposit-growth trends. 

If an insured depository institution like Ally Bank were to become insolvent or if other specified events were to occur relating to its financial condition or the propriety of its actions, the FDIC may be appointed as conservator or receiver for the institution. In that capacity, the FDIC would have the power to (1) transfer assets and liabilities of the institution to another person or entity without the approval of the institution&#8217;s creditors; (2) require that its claims process be followed and to enforce statutory or other limits on damages claimed by the institution&#8217;s creditors; (3) enforce the institution&#8217;s contracts or leases according to their terms; (4) repudiate or disaffirm the institution&#8217;s contracts or leases; (5) seek to reclaim, recover, or recharacterize transfers of the institution&#8217;s assets or to exercise control over assets in which the institution may claim an interest; (6) enforce statutory or other injunctions; and (7) exercise a wide range of other rights, powers, and authorities, including those that could impair the rights and interests of all or some of the institution&#8217;s creditors. In addition, the administrative expenses of the conservator or receiver could be afforded priority over all or some of the claims of the institution&#8217;s creditors, and under the FDI Act, the claims of depositors (including the FDIC as subrogee of depositors) would enjoy priority over the claims of the institution&#8217;s unsecured creditors. 

Investments in Ally 

Because Ally Bank is an insured depository institution and Ally and IB Finance are BHCs, direct or indirect control of us&#8212;whether through the ownership of voting securities, influence over management or policies, or other means&#8212;is subject to approvals, conditions, and other restrictions under federal and state laws. Refer to the section above titled Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status for additional information. These laws may differ in their purposes, definitions and presumptions of control, and restrictions, which for example is the case as between the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire control of us in contravention of these laws. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Insurance Companies 

Some of our insurance operations&#8212;including in the United States, Canada, and Bermuda&#8212;are subject to certain minimum aggregate capital requirements, net asset and dividend restrictions under applicable state and foreign insurance laws, and the rules and regulations promulgated by various U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies. Under various state and foreign insurance laws, dividend distributions may be made only from statutory unassigned surplus with approvals required from the regulatory authorities for dividends in excess of certain statutory limitations. Our insurance operations are also subject to applicable state and foreign laws generally governing insurance companies, as well as laws addressing products that are not regulated as insurance, such as VSCs and GAP waivers. 

Consumer Finance 

Our retail-automotive, consumer-mortgage, personal-lending, and credit-card businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws, including related judicial and administrative decisions. These laws, for example, may impose licensing obligations and financial requirements; limit the interest rates, finance charges, and other fees that can be charged; regulate the use of credit reports and the reporting of credit information; impose underwriting requirements; regulate marketing techniques and practices; require the safeguarding of nonpublic information about customers; and regulate servicing practices, including in connection with assessments, collection and foreclosure activities, claims handling, and investment and interest payments on escrow accounts. The laws applicable to consumer finance are complex and subject to change and to changes in interpretation and enforcement. Further, many existing laws were enacted without anticipating all of the technological and related innovations utilized by financial-technology firms and the financial-services companies that partner with them, and as a result, the application of these legal frameworks is not always clear and can be subject to wide supervisory and enforcement discretion. 

Ally Invest Subsidiaries 

Ally Invest Securities LLC (Ally Invest Securities) is registered as a securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, is registered with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board as a municipal securities broker-dealer, and is a member of FINRA and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). As a result, Ally Invest Securities and its personnel are subject to extensive requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), SEC regulations, SRO rules, and state laws, which collectively cover all aspects of the firm&#8217;s securities activities&#8212;including sales and trading practices, capital adequacy, recordkeeping, privacy, anti-money laundering, financial and other reporting, supervision, misuse of material nonpublic information, conduct of its business in accordance with just and equitable principles of trade, and personnel qualifications. The firm operates as an introducing broker and clears all transactions, including all customer transactions, through a third-party clearing broker-dealer on a fully disclosed basis. 

Ally Invest Forex LLC (Ally Invest Forex) is registered with the CFTC as an introducing broker and is a member of the NFA, which is the primary SRO for the U.S. futures industry. The firm is subject to similarly expansive requirements under the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC and NFA rules governing introducing brokers and their personnel, and CFTC retail forex rules. 

Ally Invest Advisors Inc. (Ally Invest Advisors) is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC. As a result, the firm is subject to a host of requirements governing investment advisers and their personnel under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and related rules and regulations, including certain fiduciary and other obligations with respect to its relationships with its investment advisory clients. 

Regulators conduct periodic examinations of Ally Invest Securities, Ally Invest Forex, and Ally Invest Advisors and regularly review reports that the firms are required to submit on an ongoing basis. Violations of relevant regulatory requirements could result in adverse consequences for the firms and their personnel, including censure, penalties and fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, and restriction, suspension or expulsion from the securities or commodity-futures industries. 

Other Laws 

Ally is subject to numerous federal, state, and local statutes, regulations, and other laws, and the possibility of violating applicable law presents ongoing compliance, operational, reputation, and other risks to Ally. Some of the other more significant laws to which we are subject include: 

&#8226; Privacy and Data Security &#160;&#8212; The GLB Act and related regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to safeguard specified consumer information maintained by them, to provide notice of their privacy practices to consumers in specified circumstances, and to allow consumers to opt out of specified kinds of information sharing with unaffiliated parties. Related regulatory guidance also directs financial institutions to notify consumers in specified cases of unauthorized access to sensitive consumer information. In addition, most states have enacted laws requiring notice of specified cases of unauthorized access to information. In February 2017, the NYDFS adopted expansive cybersecurity regulations that require regulated entities to establish cybersecurity programs and policies, to designate chief information security officers, to comply with notice and reporting obligations, and to take other actions in connection with the security of their information. On January 1, 2020, a comprehensive privacy law went into effect in the State of California, requiring regulated entities to establish measures to identify, manage, secure, track, produce, and delete personal information. 

In November 2021, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule establishing notification requirements for banking organizations and bank service providers in connection with significant computer security incidents. Under the rule, a BHC, such as Ally, and a state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as Ally Bank, will be required to notify the FRB within 36 hours of incidents that have materially disrupted or degraded, or are reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, the banking organization&#8217;s ability to deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, jeopardize the viability of key 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

operations of the banking organization, or impact the stability of the financial sector. The rule will also require bank service providers to notify us of any computer security incident that has caused, or is reasonably likely to cause, a material service disruption for four or more hours. The final rule is effective April 1, 2022, with a mandatory compliance date of May 1, 2022. 

&#8226; Volcker Rule &#160;&#8212; Under the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations of the CFTC, the FDIC, the FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the SEC (collectively, the Volcker Rule), insured depository institutions and their affiliates are prohibited, subject to limited exceptions, from (1) engaging in proprietary trading and (2) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (covered funds). The Volcker Rule contains exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, and trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permits the retention of ownership interests in certain types of funds and the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. Effective January 1, 2020, the regulatory agencies amended the proprietary-trading provisions in the Volcker Rule to simplify and streamline compliance requirements for firms that do not have significant trading activity, such as Ally. In addition, effective October 1, 2020, the regulatory agencies amended the covered-fund provisions in the Volcker Rule to clarify and streamline their application and to permit banking entities to engage in activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address, including in connection with specified credit funds, venture-capital funds, family-wealth-management vehicles, and customer-facilitation vehicles. 

&#8226; Fair Lending Laws &#160;&#8212; The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and similar fair-lending laws (collectively, Fair Lending Laws) generally prohibit a creditor from discriminating against an applicant or borrower in any aspect of a credit transaction on the basis of specified characteristics known as prohibited bases, such as race, gender, and religion. Creditors are also required under the Fair Lending Laws to follow a number of highly prescriptive rules, including rules requiring credit decisions to be made promptly, notices of adverse actions to be given, and, in the case of mortgage lenders of a certain size, anonymized data and information about mortgage applicants and credit decisions to be gathered and made publicly available. 

&#8226; Fair Credit Reporting Act &#160;&#8212; The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates the dissemination of credit reports by credit reporting agencies, requires users of credit reports to provide specified notices to the subjects of those reports, imposes standards on the furnishing of information to credit reporting agencies, obligates furnishers to maintain reasonable procedures to deal with the risk of identity theft, addresses the sharing of specified kinds of information with affiliates and third parties, and regulates the use of credit reports to make preapproved offers of credit and insurance to consumers. 

&#8226; Truth in Lending Act &#160;&#8212; The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and Regulation Z, which implements TILA, require lenders to provide borrowers with uniform, understandable information about the terms and conditions in certain credit transactions. These rules apply to Ally and its subsidiaries when they extend credit to consumers and require, in the case of certain loans, conspicuous disclosure of the finance charge and annual percentage rate, as applicable. In addition, if an advertisement for credit states specific credit terms, Regulation Z requires that the advertisement state only those terms that actually are or will be arranged or offered by the creditor together with specified notices. The CFPB in recent years has issued substantial amendments to the mortgage requirements under Regulation Z, and additional changes are likely in the future. Amendments to Regulation Z and Regulation X, which implements the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, require integrated mortgage loan disclosures to be provided for applications received on or after October 3, 2015. Further, TILA imposes a number of restrictions on credit-card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer&#8217;s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes certain disclosure requirements related to provision of open-end credit. 

&#8226; Sarbanes-Oxley Act &#160;&#8212; The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented a broad range of corporate-governance and accounting measures designed to improve the accuracy, reliability, and transparency of corporate financial reporting and disclosures and to reinforce the importance of corporate ethical standards. Among other things, this law provided for (1) the creation of an independent accounting oversight board; (2) auditor independence provisions that restrict non-audit services that accountants may provide to their audit clients; (3) additional corporate governance and responsibility measures including the requirement that the principal executive and financial officers certify financial statements; (4) the potential forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer&#8217;s securities by directors and senior officers in the 12 month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; (5) an increase in the oversight and enhancement of certain requirements relating to audit committees and how they interact with the independent auditors; (6) requirements that audit committee members must be independent and are barred from accepting consulting, advisory, or other compensatory fees from the issuer; (7) requirements that companies disclose whether at least one member of the audit committee is a &#8220;financial expert&#8221; (as defined by the SEC) and, if not, why the audit committee does not have a financial expert; (8) a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions, on non-preferential terms and in compliance with other bank regulatory requirements; (9) disclosure of a code of ethics; (10) requirements that management assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and that the independent registered public accounting firm attest to the assessment; and (11) a range of enhanced penalties for fraud and other violations. 

&#8226; Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money-Laundering Requirements &#160; &#8212; The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, contains provisions designed to detect and prevent the use of the U.S. financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bank Secrecy Act generally requires banks, certain other financial institutions, and, in certain cases, BHCs to undertake activities such as maintaining an anti-money-laundering program, verifying the identity of clients, monitoring for and reporting on suspicious transactions, reporting on cash transactions exceeding specified thresholds, and responding to certain requests for information by regulatory authorities and law-enforcement agencies. In January 2021, the Bank Secrecy Act was amended by the 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (AMLA), which comprehensively reforms and modernizes U.S. anti-money-laundering laws. The AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money-laundering compliance for financial institutions, requires the U.S. Treasury Department to develop standards for evaluating technology and internal processes for Bank Secrecy Act compliance, directs the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) to establish a registration database of beneficial-ownership information that designated companies will be required to report, and expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority and available sanctions for specified Bank Secrecy Act violations. In June 2021, FinCEN issued the priorities for anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy, as required under the AMLA. The priorities include corruption, cybercrime, terrorist financing, fraud, transnational crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and proliferation financing. Many provisions of the AMLA will require additional rulemakings, reports, and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend at least in part on their development and implementation. 

&#8226; Community Reinvestment Act &#8212; Under the CRA, a bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income persons and neighborhoods. While the CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs, banks are rated on their performance in meeting the needs of their communities. In its most recent performance evaluation in 2020, Ally Bank received an &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; rating. In January 2020, Ally Bank began operating under a new three-year CRA strategic plan approved by the FRB. Failure by Ally Bank to maintain a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; or better rating under the CRA may adversely affect our ability to expand our financial and related activities as an FHC or make acquisitions. Refer to the section above titled Bank Holding Company, Financial Holding Company, and Depository Institution Status for additional information. 

Human Capital 

Our team members are integral to the success of our business, and central to our strategy is attracting, developing, and retaining talented individuals with the right skills to drive our business forward. We emphasize a working environment and company culture that embrace diverse talents, backgrounds, and perspectives and where colleagues feel valued as both individuals and members of the team. We had approximately 10,500 and 9,500 employees as of December 31, 2021, and 2020, respectively, which consisted primarily of full-time employees in the United States. Our employee growth for the year ended December 31, 2021, was primarily attributable to expansion in the overall business and our information technology organization. 

Oversight and Governance 

There are several processes in place to identify, prioritize, mitigate, and monitor human-capital risks. In alignment with our enterprise risk management framework, this promotes a well-controlled operational environment. We maintain enterprise policies and HR programs and conduct risk and control assessment and effectiveness tests, which are completed and reviewed, at least once a year. Transparency in risk reporting&#8212;through issue management, quarterly business reviews, and audits&#8212;provides appropriate governance and oversight. Our priority is to maintain the safety and soundness of Ally, our culture, and our workforce. 

The Compensation, Nominating, and Governance Committee of the Board is responsible for the oversight of our human capital management. This Committee and Ally&#8217;s Executive Council biannually review organizational health metrics and progress toward cultural priorities including our DE&#38;I efforts. Annually, the full Board reviews and approves Ally&#8217;s Code of Conduct and Ethics, which establishes how employees must conduct themselves and which is required to be attested to by all employees on an annual basis. 

The management of our human capital resources is a core responsibility of our leaders. Leaders recognize the importance of attracting, engaging, and retaining talented employees at all levels of the organization. The HR leadership team reports to Ally&#8217;s Chief HR Officer and includes our Chief Diversity Officer, our Chief Ethics Officer, and other direct reports that work with our leaders to identify human capital metrics that are designed to promote the health of our organization. Quarterly, our Chief Diversity Officer conducts a diversity council session with senior leaders. 

Culture 

We recognize our long-term success is underpinned by the strength of our purpose-driven culture&#8212;a culture that we believe sets us apart from the competition and gives us an advantage as we recruit and retain talented team members. Our people-first approach enables a winning customer-centric philosophy focused on resiliency, adaptability, and a growth-mindset-oriented drive to &#8220;Be (Even) Better.&#8221; We strive to uphold our mantra to &#8220;Do it Right&#8221; through decisions and deeds at all levels of the organization, and we collectively commit to work with integrity and accountability and to uphold our core values in the workplace, the marketplace, and the community. Our culture is driven by our &#8220;LEAD&#8221; core values, where we emphasize that employees: 

&#8226; [ L ]ook externally &#8211; We strive to meet and exceed the needs of our customers with agility, speed, and innovation. We continually evolve, respond quickly, and deliver a superior customer experience. 

&#8226; [ E ]xecute with excellence &#8211; Good enough is never enough. With a focus on continuous improvement, our actions are driven by sound analysis and an intense focus on excellence. 

&#8226; [ A ]ct with professionalism &#8211; We operate with integrity, hold ourselves and each other accountable, treat others with respect, and embrace diversity and inclusion. This is the cornerstone to our long-term success and at the very foundation of what it means to be an ally. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

&#8226; [ D ]eliver results &#8211; We are passionate about winning &#8211; for our customers, our teams, and our company. Success is measured at both the outcome and the path to achieve it. 

Our annual, CEO-sponsored enterprise-wide recognition program, &#8220;LEADing the Way,&#8221; is designed to recognize employees whose leadership and performance consistently model our core values in one or more of the following areas: innovation, risk culture, corporate citizenship, customer experience, DE&#38;I, process improvement, or other attributes that reflect our overall culture. This award is one of the highest recognitions an employee can receive at Ally. In 2021, approximately 100 team members were recognized with this award. Recipients are nominated based on exceeding their LEAD core value performance objective, which is required for all employees. Additionally, employees can nominate colleagues for the quarterly peer-to-peer &#8220;I&#8217;m An Ally&#8221; award recognition program that provides employees the opportunity to recognize the hard work of individuals across the entire organization. These recognition programs reinforce our continued commitment to our culture. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

We believe the best ideas come from a collective mixture of different voices and perspectives. We are an equal opportunity employer, and we strive for an inclusive work environment where all backgrounds, experiences, interests, viewpoints, and skills are respected, appreciated, and encouraged consistent with our culture. We are focused on diverse representation and retention in the workforce including different genders, races, nationalities, sexual orientations, and other identities&#8212;across all levels of the organization from entry to leadership. Fostering these diverse perspectives is important and reflects the beliefs and actions that are the backbone of our culture. 

We have a deliberate focus on DE&#38;I with an intentional emphasis on inclusion, which expands beyond traditional definitions of diversity. Notably, our company-wide engagement survey score for belonging is consistently rated over the financial services industry benchmark and was eight points above in 2021, as measured by our third-party provider. The importance of DE&#38;I starts at the top with our CEO and Board, who consistently stress the value in leveraging our differences. In June 2017, our CEO was among the first 150 CEOs who signed on to the CEO Action Pledge for Diversity and Inclusion, and this commitment has been renewed every year since. In connection with nationwide movements against systemic racism and social injustices, our Board and Executive Council publicly pledged our continuing support for all groups with a heightened focus on Black, Hispanic and Latino colleagues, suppliers, partners, and communities in the promotion of equity and equality. 

Our DE&#38;I Council provides executive leadership on DE&#38;I and promotes belonging at Ally and in our communities. A subset of our commitment to DE&#38;I is a Financial and Social Inclusion Framework that is built upon four pillars: Community, Customers, Employees, and Suppliers. 

&#8226; Community: Further social justice and address disparate systems and policies through an intentional approach to its philanthropy, volunteerism, and board service, as well as CRA initiatives including loans, investments, and partnerships. 

&#8226; Employees: Increase representation and retention of Black, Hispanic and Latino employees at professional, managerial, and executive levels through intentional programming and support. 

&#8226; Customers: Enable financial and social inclusion through our culture of customer obsession, developing education and/or solutions to strengthen economic mobility for all. 

&#8226; Suppliers: Actively promote ways diverse-owned businesses can engage and succeed within the Ally Supply Chain. 

These four pillars are championed by our employees, which empowers us to advance DE&#38;I efforts in meaningful ways beyond Ally. Additionally, these efforts are further supported by our Chief Diversity Officer, and over 15 full-time employees designated to advance DE&#38;I within Ally. While our Financial and Social Inclusion Framework is focused on addressing the wealth gap, specifically in Black, Hispanic and Latino communities, the four pillars are reflective of our DE&#38;I efforts more broadly as further discussed below. 

Community 

Our approach to community is inclusive and integrates our employees across the organization. We help our employees develop their own skills while serving our communities with their time and talent. We encourage our employees to utilize eight paid hours per year to volunteer in their communities. In 2021, a year impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees volunteered approximately 28,000 hours in our communities. Also in 2021 we celebrated our tenth-annual &#8220;Giving Back Month,&#8221; and over the past decade we have achieved more than 100,000 volunteer hours and nearly $5 million in donations from our employees to our communities. Additionally, in 2021, we announced the creation of &#8220;Green Teams,&#8221; a network of employees who support environmental engagement. 

Our philanthropic approach is based on a framework of economic mobility. We support programs that provide opportunities to individuals and families in low-and moderate-income communities with emphasis on three areas: affordable housing, financial literacy, and workforce preparedness. We solely funded the Ally Charitable Foundation, a non-consolidated entity, which has approximately $80 million in assets as of December 31, 2021, to drive positive and lasting impacts in our communities. In 2021, Ally and the Ally Charitable Foundation made a $5 million commitment to the Charlotte Mayor&#8217;s Racial Equity Initiative, a public/private partnership to address racial inequities. Additionally, the Ally Charitable Foundation championed Trust-Based Philanthropy, a philanthropic approach that supports extraordinary, grassroots nonprofits led by Black, Hispanic, and Latino individuals, through funding and various forms of technical assistance. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

One of our largest and most powerful initiatives is Moguls in the Making, an annual competition that fosters opportunities for students from historically black colleges and universities. The annual program was launched in 2019 in collaboration with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund and the Sean Anderson Foundation. In 2021, we sponsored the third Moguls in the Making competition, with 50 students, who brought innovative and impactful solutions to economic mobility challenges. Since the program&#8217;s inception in 2019, we have offered internships to 36 students, which have often led to permanent job placements within Ally or the broader financial-services industry. Additionally, in 2021, we took further steps to address inequality of access to careers with long-term growth potential with a $1.3 million commitment that supported 23 scholarships and programs in partnership with the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, TMCF, and other professional university groups. 

Our financial education approach is broad, leveraging our team members to teach critical financial skills to children in elementary schools through adults re-entering society from the criminal justice system. During 2021, we provided financial skills training to nearly 12,000 individuals through various channels. One notable example of using our thought leadership in this area is the creation of Fintropolis, the gamification of financial education for middle school children. We leveraged Moguls in the Making interns to develop the concept of the game and curriculum that would be relevant to that audience. 

Our work in the communities is woven throughout our culture. We originated approximately $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion in loans and investments that benefit low- and moderate-income individuals and communities as part of our CRA program during the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020, respectively. In 2021, we executed on our mission to expand access to capital for Black, Hispanic and Latino fund managers by investing $70 million in funds with diverse managers/owners, including funds such as the Fearless Fund and Altura Capital. These investments will provide a financial foundation to help develop the next generation of successful Black, Hispanic and Latino entrepreneurs, investors, affordable housing developers, and community leaders. We also assisted Liberty Bank, one of the largest Black-owned banks in the country, by selling participations in $10 million of high-yielding loans. Additionally, Ally Bank received consecutive &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; CRA ratings in our last two reviews. 

Employees 

We take deliberate steps to weave DE&#38;I through all our human capital efforts: from pipelining candidates, onboarding, all the way through the employee lifecycle. With this approach, we have been able to build on our LEAD culture to celebrate the differences that our employees bring to the workplace. In 2021, we held learning sessions focused on educating our employees on the impacts of systemic barriers to equity facing a wide-range of diverse communities. We also implemented unconscious bias mitigation and awareness training to help leaders across the organization understand the impacts of unconscious bias on our decision-making processes. Every employee has a specific culture-related performance objective, which includes a strong focus on DE&#38;I. Additionally, for all executive leaders, annual performance objectives and reviews include a specific focus on representation and diversity trends within the workforce. The importance of DE&#38;I is consistently reinforced by executive leadership through town hall meetings, employee communications, and active participation in and sponsorship of our ERGs. A diverse and inclusive workforce makes us stronger, more agile, more innovative, and more adaptable. We believe it makes us better and benefits our various stakeholders culturally, operationally, and financially. 

We maintain eight ERGs sponsored by members of Ally&#8217;s Executive Council and chaired by leaders from multiple levels of management across Ally. These ERGs consist of: Aliados, Asian/Middle Eastern, Black/African American, Diverse Abilities, Generational, Pride, Veteran, and Women ALLYs. Membership in our ERGs is voluntary and open to all employees, whether they identify with the ERG or view themselves as an ally to the group. At December 31, 2021, 43% of our workforce belonged to at least one ERG, as compared to 38% as of December 31, 2020. Our objective is to foster a workplace environment where all employees have a sense of belonging and know their opinions count. 

Our commitment to inclusion emphasizes representation transparency, accountability, and action for our employees. As of December 31, 2021, our gender representation is approximately 48% women, 50% men, and 2% undisclosed/other. We increased representation of women and people of color in our manager and above roles and redesigned programs to create more opportunities for early talent. 

The following table presents our employee representation of women, and Black or African American, Latino or Hispanic, or Asian individuals as a percentage of all employees. 

##TABLE_START 2021 (a) 2020 (a) December 31, Women Black or African American Latino or Hispanic Asian Women Black or African American Latino or Hispanic Asian Associate 73 &#160; % 50 &#160; % 10 &#160; % 3 &#160; % 73 % 51 % 10 % 3 % Analyst 47 &#160; 18 &#160; 8 &#160; 8 &#160; 47 16 7 7 Managers/Directors 34 &#160; 7 &#160; 4 &#160; 13 &#160; 32 6 3 11 Executive 25 &#160; 4 &#160; 3 &#160; 4 &#160; 23 2 4 2 All employees 48 &#160; 21 &#160; 7 &#160; 8 &#160; 49 22 7 7 ##TABLE_END

(a) Figures in the table rely upon information self-reported by our employees. 

We believe equal access to earning potential is essential in attracting, retaining, and inspiring top talent. Our external hiring practices are based on market rates for roles, experience, and performance. To the same end, we do not and have not requested salary history from 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

candidates since 2017, and we regularly benchmark our compensation against other companies, both within and outside our industry. Pay rates for all positions are routinely reviewed, ensuring equitable pay across the organization. On February 1, 2021, we established an internal minimum hourly wage for our U.S. employees of $17, which increased on September 13, 2021, to $20. 

In December 2021, we announced that Juneteenth will be observed as a paid holiday for U.S. employees to commemorate the emancipation of millions of people from slavery and National Day for Truth and Reconciliation will be observed as a paid holiday for Canadian employees to honor the Native children, survivors, families, and communities affected by residential schools. 

Customers 

The diversity of our employees is a key component of our success as an organization as it allows us to have a workforce that is representative of customers we serve. In June 2021, we announced the elimination of all overdraft fees across our retail deposit products for all customers. This change is an example of our &#8220;Do It Right&#8221; commitment for all customers, including those that may be financially vulnerable. In January 2022, we announced Ally CoverDraft service, which provides a no fee overdraft allowance to our qualifying customers on debit transactions subject to a certain amount. 

Suppliers 

Our Supplier Diversity program focuses on diversity and inclusion amongst our supplier base. The Supplier Diversity program includes a proactive business strategy encouraging the use of diverse suppliers defined as those owned by U.S.-based minorities, women, LGBTQ, veterans and those with disabilities, and small or disadvantaged businesses defined by local, state, or federal classifications. We monitor and report expenditure with diverse suppliers in two tiers: first-tier expenditure is our direct expenditure with diverse suppliers, and second-tier expenditure is indirect expenditure associated with our prime suppliers that are utilizing minority, women, LGBTQ, veteran, disability-owned, and small or disadvantaged businesses to help support us. 

Since the program&#8217;s inception, we have created operational processes to include diverse suppliers in our bidding and contracting opportunities. This has resulted in an increase in both first-tier diverse expenditure and our third-party supplier expenditure with minority-owned and women-owned businesses. Within the second-tier expenditure program, approximately 70% of Ally&#8217;s top 50 supplier relationships reported their diverse expenditure supporting Ally&#8217;s business for the first time in 2021. 

We implemented new internal sourcing processes and standards for the identification and, wherever possible, inclusion of diverse suppliers in our Request for Proposal events. Our dedicated Supplier Diversity team assists our Business Lines and procurement teams in identifying a mix of diverse suppliers with the proper credentials and capabilities to adhere to our third-party risk, operational, commercial, legal and performance standards. As part of this due diligence process, our Supplier Diversity and procurement teams partner to research qualified diverse suppliers capable of meeting our standards in Request for Proposal events. This allows us to integrate consideration of diverse business enterprises in third-party purchasing opportunities. In addition, our procure-to-pay platform has functionality where suppliers can connect with us to promote their products and services. Our comprehensive sourcing network pairs our needs with the business strengths of a diverse mix of large and small suppliers who then may participate in our bidding and selection processes. 

In January 2021, we hosted our inaugural Supplier Diversity Symposium, engaging more than 40 diverse suppliers in a company-wide networking event with our CEO and other business executives to increase access, build relationships, and explore opportunities to expand relationships with diverse suppliers. In addition to the Symposium, we hosted three quarterly diverse supplier spotlight events as part of our ongoing commitment to supplier diversity. Through these spotlight events, we engaged diverse suppliers through interactive mock sales pitches and provided immediate coaching and feedback. As a result of this access, many of the participating diverse suppliers went on to connect with our supply chain department and business line executives to explore potential opportunities. In February 2022, we hosted the second annual Supplier Diversity Symposium, and facilitated interactive breakout sessions and a fireside chat with our CEO. 

Recognition 

As a reflection of our collective efforts across each of these pillars to build an inclusive culture, we were recognized by several organizations in 2022 and 2021. In 2022, Ally was named a Forbes Best Employer among large employers, which ranked us 64th out of 500 large employers. Additionally, we were recognized as a 2022 Top Workplaces USA award recipient for our people-first culture. 

In 2021, we made the Forbes&#8217; lists as a best place to work for women, veterans, and diversity. We also were named to Diversity Inc.&#8217;s Top 50 companies for diversity list, and as a best place to work for disability inclusion by the following organizations: American Association of People with Disabilities, and Disability:IN. Additionally, the Human Rights Campaign Foundation named us a best place to work for LGBTQ equality, the fifth straight year we have achieved this recognition, and we were on the LinkedIn top companies list in Charlotte for 2021. 

Engagement 

Active engagement is key as we continue to build a company where our employees want to work, have purposeful careers, and feel empowered to make a difference. Throughout the year, we leverage an industry recognized third-party provider to administer confidential employee surveys to provide management feedback on key strengths, as well as to identify areas where we can take action to further improve our culture and further strengthen our engaged workforce. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

The following table presents our company-wide engagement survey results as measured by our third-party provider, based on a 100-point scale, as well as employee participation in the survey. 

##TABLE_START 2021 2020 Ally score 84 87 Financial services benchmark 74 72 Ally employee participation % 79 82 ##TABLE_END

For 2021 and 2020, our employee engagement scores have been within the top 10% of all companies that participated in the survey and at least ten points higher than the financial services industry benchmark. Active employee engagement helps to strengthen our employee retention rate, which was approximately 86% and 90% for the years ended December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020, respectively. 

Hiring, Retention, and Learning and Development 

We make significant investments in recruitment and employee development to attract and retain top talent. Our recruitment process is vast and includes partnerships with universities with virtual and on-campus recruiting events, online platforms, internship and rotational programs, and referral bonuses to current employees. We hold numerous programs to invest in the growth and development of our employees. Our employee base receives continuing education courses relevant to our industry through the Ally Learning Center, in addition to on-the-job training related to their function. We offer targeted trainings for management and leadership development. We have organized a mentor-mentee program as an avenue for our employees to share knowledge, experience, and perspective and to foster the personal and professional growth of one another. Certain of our business lines offer rotational and leader development programs with the oversight and guidance of our HR business partners. 

Our performance management process is designed to promote a culture of meaningful work, ongoing feedback and coaching, and employee-owned careers. Annually, employees partner with managers to create and align performance measurements considering company-wide objectives. We encourage quarterly performance review discussions between employees and managers and require year end performance evaluations summarizing the ongoing performance, development, and career interest conversations that occurred throughout the year. Additionally, we provide a multi-rater feedback tool to solicit additional perspectives on employee contributions and a more holistic picture of employee performance and leadership. 

We encourage internal mobility among our employees, contributing to 26% of our existing eligible workforce that has been with Ally for at least one year receiving promotions or taking on new roles during the year ended December 31, 2021. Our deliberate focus on mobility supports our ongoing retention efforts for top talent across the organization. The retention rate for employees that we determine to be high performers through talent planning was 94% for the year ended December 31, 2021. On a routine basis, we perform talent and succession planning to develop and retain our top talent. We also provide support for continuing education through a tuition reimbursement program, as well as student loan repayment assistance and contributions to employee&#8217;s 529 education savings plans. 

Total Rewards, Health, and Wellness 

Our compensation program offers market-competitive base pay and pay-for-performance incentives based on achieving individual and company goals. In addition, our total rewards include competitive holiday and flexible paid-time-off, a 401(k) retirement savings plan with matching and company contributions that can total up to 10% of an employee&#8217;s salary per year, as well as other benefits designed to support the personal and professional lives of our employees. Examples of these benefits include paid parental and caregiver leave, adoption and surrogacy assistance, a backup child and adult/elder care program, no-cost access to certified financial planners, and an employee assistance program. We also match employee donations to registered nonprofits subject to an annual cap and provide our employees with eight hours of voluntary-time-off to give back in the communities where we work. 

We empower our employees to act as founders with an owner&#8217;s mindset across all levels of the organization and all parts of the business which is encouraged through our shared equity program. In August 2021, we announced that all eligible employees may be awarded Ally stock annually through our discretionary #OwnIt Annual Grant Program dependent upon our financial performance and Board approval. In January 2022, for the third consecutive year, we awarded all active, regular Ally employees with 100 restricted stock units, up to a maximum grant date value of $5,000, and subject to a 3-year cliff vesting schedule, in recognition of our notable accomplishments and to support a founder&#8217;s mentality. This benefit provides shared equity to our employees and to further encourage the mindset of an owner, we also maintain an employee stock purchase plan that provides employees with the opportunity to purchase Ally stock at a discount. 

Supporting and valuing all our employees is central to our culture. We offer flexible health insurance options including dental and vision for our employees, as well as a pre-tax health savings account with employer contributions. We provide life and disability benefits and manage a wellness program encouraging healthy living with financial rewards. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we provided a range of financial-assistance offerings, including a one-time $1,200 expense payment in 2020 for those earning less than $100,000. We enhanced existing benefits and introduced new benefits related to COVID-19 and mental health concerns. Our Ally Employee Relief Fund has received over $1 million in donations and has helped over 700 of our employees since its launch in May 2020. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

To curb the spread of COVID-19, we instituted a remote work protocol beginning in mid-March 2020. In 2021, we launched a voluntary office reentry pilot program to test processes and procedures designed to create a safe in-office environment. We required daily health attestations and reconfigured our working environment to allow for social distancing. The health and safety of our employees remain paramount in our decision-making, and our phased reopening of our facilities is based on viral trends, medical advisor guidance, governmental regulations, and local ordinances. While we began 2021 with nearly 99% of our employees working remotely, we ended the year prepared to reopen our corporate and regional business offices as a resource to vaccinated employees in January 2022 and we plan to open our operational centers to vaccinated employees in early 2022. 

For our work to prioritize employee well-being with resources, benefits, and support, we were recognized with a Nation&#8217;s Best and Brightest in Wellness award in 2021, for the fifth consecutive year. 

Additional Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to these reports) are available on our internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at www.ally.com/about/investor/sec-filings/. These reports can also be found on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-K 

