 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

General 

SHUSA is the parent holding company of SBNA, a national banking association; SC, a consumer finance company headquartered in Dallas, Texas; SSLLC, a broker-dealer headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts; BSI, a financial services company headquartered in Miami, Florida that offers a full range of banking services to foreign individuals and corporations based primarily in Latin America; SIS, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in New York providing services in investment banking, institutional sales, and trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed income securities; SFS, a consumer credit institution headquartered in Puerto Rico; and several other subsidiaries. SHUSA is headquartered in Boston and SBNA's home office is in Wilmington, Delaware. SSLLC is a registered investment adviser with the SEC. SHUSA's two largest subsidiaries by asset size and revenue are SBNA and SC. SHUSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Santander. 

SBNA's primary business consists of attracting deposits and providing other retail banking services through its network of retail branches, and originating small business loans, middle market, large and global commercial loans, multifamily loans, and auto and other consumer loans throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern areas of the United States, principally located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. At December 31, 2021, SBNA had 483 branches and 2,128 ATMs across its footprint. SBNA uses its deposits, as well as other financing sources, to fund its loan and investment portfolios. SBNA earns interest income on its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, SBNA generates non-interest income from a number of sources, including deposit and loan services, sales of loans and investment securities, capital markets products and BOLI. SBNA's principal non-interest expenses include employee compensation and benefits, occupancy and facility-related costs, technology and other administrative expenses. The financial results of SBNA are affected by the economic environment, including interest rates and consumer and business confidence and spending, as well as the competitive conditions within SBNA's geographic footprint. 

SC is a full-service specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SC's primary business is the indirect origination and servicing of RICs and leases, principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. SAF is SC&#8217;s primary vehicle financing brand, and is available as a finance option for automotive dealers across the United States. 

Since May 2013, under the MPLFA with Stellantis, SC has operated as Stellantis's preferred provider for consumer loans, leases, and dealer loans and provides services to Stellantis customers and dealers under the CCAP brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. Refer to Note 20 for additional details. On June 28, 2019, SC entered into an amendment to the MPLFA which modified that agreement to, among other things, adjust certain performance metrics, exclusivity commitments and payment provisions. That amendment also terminated the previously disclosed tolling agreement, dated July 11, 2018, between the Company and Stellantis. In January 2021, Stellantis and Peugeot completed their merger, creating the fourth largest automobile manufacturer in the world. 

SC also purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile and recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. Additionally, the Company has other relationships through which it holds other consumer finance products. These consumer finance products previously included personal lending; however, in 2015, the Company announced its exit from personal lending. During the first quarter of 2021, the Company completed the sale of the Bluestem personal lending portfolio to a third party. In addition, SC executed a forward flow sale agreement with a third party to purchase new advances of all personal lending receivables that SC purchases from Bluestem through the term of the agreement with Bluestem. 

As of December 31, 2021, SC was owned approximately 80.2% by SHUSA and 19.8% by other shareholders. Refer to Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on SHUSA's January 31, 2022 acquisition of the remainder of SC's outstanding shares. 

In August 2021, SHUSA entered into a definitive agreement whereby SHUSA agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of SC Common Stock not already owned by SHUSA via an all-cash tender offer. Under the terms of the definitive agreement, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SHUSA commenced a tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of SC Common Stock that SHUSA did not already own at a price of $41.50 per share in cash. SHUSA agreed to acquire all remaining shares not tendered in the ten der offer through a second-step merger at the same price as in the tender offer. Consummation of the tender offer was subject to various conditions, including regulatory approval by the Federal Reserve and other customary closing conditions. The transaction was completed on January 31, 2022, at which time, SHUSA acquired the remaining 19.8% noncontrolling interest in SC for approximately $2.5 billion and SC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SHUSA. 

In July 2021, SHUSA announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire PCH, parent company of Amherst Pierpont Securities, a market-leading independent fixed-income broker dealer, for a total consideration of approximately $450 million . PCH has a net book value of approximately $300 million . Amherst Pierpont Securities has approximately 230 employees serving more than 1,300 active institutional clients from its headquarters in New York and offices in Chicago, San Francisco, Austin, other U.S. locations and Hong Kong. The transaction is expected to close subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. 

Segments 

The Company&#8217;s reportable segments are focused principally around the customers the Company serves. The Company has identified the following reportable segments: CBB, C&#38;I, CRE &#38; VF, CIB, and SC. 

&#8226; The CBB segment includes the products and services provided to Bank consumer and small business banking customers, including consumer deposit, small business banking, unsecured lending and investment services. This segment offers a wide range of products and services to consumers and business banking customers, including demand and interest-bearing demand deposit accounts, money market and savings accounts, CDs and retirement savings products. It also offers lending products such as credit cards, and business loans such as business lines of credit and commercial cards. SBNA also finances indirect consumer automobile RICs and leases through intercompany agreements with SC. In addition, SBNA provides investment services to its retail customers, including annuities, mutual funds, and insurance products. Santander Universities, which provides grants and scholarships to universities and colleges as a way to foster education through research, innovation and entrepreneurship, is the last component of this segment. 

&#8226; The C&#38;I segment currently provides commercial lines, loans, letters of credit, receivables financing, cash management and deposit services to lower middle market commercial customers and to medium- and large-sized commercial customers, as well as financing and deposits for government entities. This segment also provides niche product financing for specific industries. 

&#8226; The CRE &#38; VF segment offers CRE loans and multifamily loans to customers. This segment also offers commercial loans to dealers and financing for commercial equipment and vehicles. This category also includes SBNA&#8217;s community development finance activities, including originating CRA-eligible loans and making CRA-eligible investments. 

&#8226; The CIB segment serves the needs of global commercial and institutional customers by leveraging the international footprint of Santander to provide financing and banking services to corporations with over $500 million in annual revenues. CIB also includes SIS, a registered broker-dealer located in New York that provides services in investment banking, institutional sales, and trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed-income securities. CIB's offerings and strategy are based on Santander's local and global capabilities in wholesale banking. 

&#8226; SC is a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SC&#8217;s primary business is the indirect origination of RICs, principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. In conjunction with the MPLFA, SC offers a full spectrum of auto financing products and services to Stellantis customers and dealers under the CCAP brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. SC also originates vehicle loans through a web-based direct lending program, purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile, recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. During 2015, SC announced its intention to exit the personal lending business. All intercompany revenue and fees between SBNA and SC are eliminated in the consolidated results of the Company. 

ESG 

Our responsible growth strategy includes a focus on addressing global sustainability challenges. We contribute to the transition towards a more just and sustainable economy by managing climate-related risks and opportunities, building a comprehensive sustainable and green finance proposition and reducing our environmental footprint. 

Our three topmost climate-related opportunities are: 

&#8226; Continued financing of renewable energy sources, including wind and solar power; and 

&#8226; Development of diverse products and services that provide climate solutions that assist our clients as they transition to a low-carbon economy, and that result in greater diversification, competitive advantage, and increased revenue; and 

&#8226; Resource efficiencies to reduce environmental impact, operational costs, and increase the value of fixed assets. 

We are committed to a more sustainable economy by addressing climate change and sustainable business practices. We continue to make progress towards meeting our goals: 

&#8226; Carbon neutral in operations. This goal was first achieved in 2020 and will continue to be achieved through purchase of offsets, while reducing our carbon footprint. 

&#8226; Single-use plastic free at all facilities, where feasible, resulting in an estimated reduction of 70,000 pounds annually of plastic waste across the US. The goal was first achieved in 2021 and the Company continues to work with suppliers to reduce plastic usage. 

&#8226; 100% purchasing of renewable electricity for facilities, where possible, by 2025. 

The goals discussed above are ambitious; as such, no guarantees or promises are made that these goals will be met or continued. Furthermore, statistics and metrics included in these disclosures are estimates; they may also be based on assumptions. 

Human Capital Management 

Our employees are central to our Company&#8217;s success. Our Company invests significant resources to maintain a Company culture that is Simple, Personal and Fair and to attract, develop and retain the high-caliber workforce needed to meet our corporate goals. We invest in our employees by seeking to create a diverse and inclusive work environment, providing competitive compensation and benefits, quality training and development opportunities, and ensuring a safe and healthy workplace. 

Human Resources and Communications Teams 

Our HR and Communications teams are responsible for: 

&#8226; Communications &#8211; leads and manages employee communications and supports employee and customer events across the organization, as well as leads and manages proactive communications for issue resolution and overall media relations management. 

&#8226; Culture, Engagement and Employer Branding--activates and promotes Santander&#8217;s Employer Value Proposition in the US, fostering a unified, &#8220;One Santander,&#8221; elevating employee engagement and attracting top talent. 

&#8226; Compensation, Payroll and Benefits &#8211; responsible for compensation and benefits strategy and consulting with the business on compensation matters and compensation governance, as well as payroll and benefits support. 

&#8226; Talent Acquisition &#8211; sources, hires, and onboards the best-qualified candidates, from within or outside of the organization. 

&#8226; Talent Management &#8211; develops, engages, and retains the right talent to ensure SHUSA operates as a high-performing organization and attains business objectives. 

&#8226; Learning &#38; Development &#8211; partners with business areas to design, develop, and implements learning solutions that provide employees with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to meet and exceed the organization&#8217;s goals and objectives. 

&#8226; Employee Relations &#8211; supports the Company to assist with conflict resolution, internal investigations of discrimination or harassment, and questions on HR policies and procedures for all employees. 

&#8226; DE&#38;I - focuses on supporting workforce diversity. 

D E&#38;I 

Our focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion extends beyond valuing differences such as gender, age, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, education, physical and cognitive abilities, veteran status, and religion. We believe that a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment helps create prosperity for our employees, customers, and communities. Our culture is underpinned by our core values and includes an unwavering commitment to serving the underserved among us. 

The Company established the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and appointed a Chief Diversity Officer (CDO) who has dual reporting relationships to the Santander US Diversity Champion and the Chief Human Resources Officer. The CDO serves as a senior executive leading the Company's cultural change initiatives, with a focus on comprehensive and results-driven program management. 

The Office of DE&#38;I implemented several initiatives in 2021 including an inclusive culture campaign, financial empowerment and mentorship programs for employees, and the launch of the Company&#8217;s DE&#38;I webpage. The Company continues to be committed to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion, not only for ourselves, but also for those we serve. 

Co mpensation and Benefits 

We provide competitive compensation, benefits, and services that help attract, retain and incentivize our employees. Our compensation and benefits package includes competitive pay, healthcare, retirement benefits, as well as paid time off and holidays, parental leave, disability benefits, military leave, and paid development and volunteer time off, along with other benefits and employee resources. We design our incentive compensation in order to reward pay for performance while appropriately mitigating risk in line with our corporate behaviors and ethical principles. 

Our workforce was approximately 14,600 employees at December 31, 2021. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2021, the Company's 12-month rolling voluntary attrition rate was 19.3% . 

Learning and Development 

The Company invests significant resources to train and develop our employees. Our programs provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build management skills, and lead their organization. We deliver numerous learning opportunities to aid in employee development, ensure compliance, and improve business acumen including quarterly compliance curriculums, workplace safety awareness, specialized job role training, and information security training. 

Health and Wellness 

The Company is committed to the health and safety of our employees. As such, we invest in programs designed to improve physical, mental, and financial well-being. The Company sponsors two medical plans that provide comprehensive medical coverage, telemedicine and wellness tools, and condition management and support. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company increased the mental health tools available to employees and also provides all employees with comprehensive paid leave programs and an employee assistance program that includes counseling sessions at no cost. 

In 2021, the pandemic had a significant impact on our human capital management. We continued to allow our non-location dependent staff to work remotely, while maintaining various protocols and procedures for the safety of our employees. Some of these protocols included, but are not limited to, enhanced facility cleanings, reconfiguration of the workplace to allow for social distancing, providing our employees personal protective equipment, the implementation of a daily health screen prior to reporting to our facilities, and comprehensive training for employees on these new protocols. The Company also established a Vaccine Time Off Program to allow employees paid time off to receive or recover from the Covid Vaccine. 

Competition 

The Company&#8217;s primary competitors for SBNA and SC are: 

&#8226; national and regional banks; 

&#8226; credit unions; 

&#8226; independent financial institutions; and 

&#8226; the affiliated finance companies of automotive manufacturers. 

SBNA is subject to substantial competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in lending funds. The primary factors in competing for deposits include the ability to offer attractive rates, the convenience of office locations, the availability of alternate channels of distribution, and servicing capabilities. Direct competition for deposits comes primarily from other national, regional, and state banks, thrift institutions, and broker-dealers. Competition for deposits also comes from money market mutual funds, corporate and government securities, and credit unions. The primary factors driving competition for commercial and consumer loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, service levels and the range of products and services offered. Competition for originating loans normally comes from thrift institutions, national and state banks, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, finance companies, and insurance companies. 

The Company also provides investment management, broker-dealer and private banking services for its clients. We face competition in providing these services from trust companies, full-service banks, asset managers, investment advisors, securities dealers, mutual fund companies, and other financial institutions. 

The automotive finance industry in which both SC and SBNA participate is highly competitive. While the used car financing market is fragmented with no single lender accounting for more than 10% of the market, there are a number of competitors in both the new and used car markets that have substantial positions nationally or in the markets in which they operate. 

SC competes on the pricing offered on loans and leases as well as the customer service provided to automotive dealer customers. Pricing for these loans and leases is transparent because SC, along with its industry competitors, posts pricing for loans and leases on web-based credit application aggregation platforms. When dealers submit applications for consumers acquiring vehicles, the y can compare SC's pricing against its competitors&#8217; pricing. Dealer relationships are important in the automotive finance industry. Vehicle finance providers tailor product offerings to meet each individual dealer's needs. 

SC seeks to compete effectively through its proprietary credit-scoring system and industry experience, which are used to establish appropriate risk pricing. In addition, SC benefits from Stellantis &#8217;s subvention programs through the MPLFA. SC seeks to develop strong dealer relationships through a nationwide sales force and a long history in the automotive finance space. Further, SC expects to continue deepening dealer relationship through the Stellantis product offerings and believes it can compete effectively by continuing to expand those relationships. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The U.S. lending industry is highly regulated under various federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Consumer Leasing Act, Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act, the DFA and the GLBA, as well as various state laws. The Company is subject to inspections, examinations, supervision, and regulation by the SEC, the CFPB, the Federal Trade Commission, and the DOJ and by regulatory agencies in each state in which the Company and its subsidiaries are licensed. 

The activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, including SBNA and SC, are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws and regulatory agencies which impose regulations, supervise and conduct examinations, and may affect the operations and management of the Company and its ability to take certain actions, including making distributions to our parent, Santander. SHUSA is a BHC pursuant to the BHC Act. As a BHC, the Company is subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve, including the FRB of Boston. 

SBNA is a national bank chartered under the National Bank Act and subject to supervision by the OCC, which has the ability to limit certain of its activities, such as the timing and amount of dividends and certain transactions that it might otherwise desire to enter into, such as merger and acquisition opportunities, or to impose other limitations on the Bank&#8217;s growth- and is a member of the FDIC. 

In addition, the Company is directly and indirectly, through its relationship with Santander, subject to certain banking and financial services regulations, including oversight by the European Central Bank. 

Refer to the "Regulatory Matters" section within Item 7- MD&#38;A for discussion of current regulatory matters impacting the Company. Additional legal and regulatory matters affecting the Company&#8217;s activities are further discussed in Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

BHC Activity and Acquisition Restrictions 

Federal laws restrict the types of activities in which BHCs may engage, and subject them to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and policies. BHCs may engage in the business of banking and managing and controlling banks, as well as closely-related activities. 

The Company would be required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve if the Company were to acquire shares of any depository institution or any holding company of a depository institution, or any financial entity that is not a depository institution, such as a lending company. 

Control of the Company or SBNA 

Under the Change in Bank Control Act, individuals, corporations or other entities acquiring SHUSA's common stock may, alone or together with other investors, be deemed to control the Company and thereby SBNA. Ownership of more than 10% of SHUSA&#8217;s capital stock may be deemed to constitute &#8220;control&#8221; if certain other control factors are present. If deemed to control the Company, those persons or groups would be required to obtain the Federal Reserve's approval to acquire the Company&#8217;s common stock and could be subject to certain ongoing reporting procedures and restrictions under federal law and regulations. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies adopted certain operational and managerial standards for depository institutions, including internal audit system components, loan documentation requirements, asset growth parameters, IT and data security practices, and compensation standards for officers, directors and employees. 

Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC 

SBNA is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund, which is administered by the FDIC. SBNA's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions like SBNA. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against banking institutions and may terminate an institution&#8217;s deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. 

The FDIC charges financial institutions deposit premium assessments to ensure it has reserves to cover deposits that are under FDIC-insured limits, which is currently $250,000 per depositor per ownership category for each ownership deposit account category. 

FDIC insurance premium expenses were $33.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. 

Restrictions on Dividends and Subsidiary Banking Institution Capital Distributions 

Under the FDIA, IDIs must be classified in one of five defined tiers (well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized). Under OCC regulations, an institution is considered &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (iii) has a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) has a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and (v) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2021, SBNA met the criteria to be classified as &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; 

If capital levels fall to significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Pursuant to FDIA and OCC regulations, institutions which are not categorized as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are restricted from making capital distributions, which include cash dividends, stock redemptions and repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the institution&#8217;s capital account. 

Federal banking laws, regulations and policies limit SBNA&#8217;s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to the Company. SBNA must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend or make any other capital distribution if, after such dividend or distribution: (1) the bank&#8217;s total distributions to the Company within that calendar year would exceed 100% of its net income during the year plus retained net income for the prior two years; (2) the bank would not meet capital levels imposed by the OCC in connection with any order, or (3) the bank is not adequately capitalized at the time. In addition, the OCC's prior approval is required if the OCC deems it to be in troubled condition or a problem institution. 

Any dividends declared and paid have the effect of reducing SBNA&#8217;s Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets and risk-based capital ratios. During 2021, 2020, and 2019, the Company paid cash dividends of zero, $125.0 million and $400.0 million, respectively. 

In June 2020, the Federal Reserve Board announced the Interim Policy, to be applied in the third quarter of 2020, which provided that certain large CCAR banks, including SHUSA, cannot pay common stock dividends that exceed the institution&#8217;s average trailing four quarters of net income. The Interim Policy also prohibited these banks from implementing share purchase programs, except to make share repurchases relating to issuances of common stock related to employee stock ownership plans. 

In July 2020, SC announced that the Federal Reserve had approved certain exceptions to the Interim Policy and that SC was permitted to pay a dividend and continue its share repurchase program during the third quarter of 2020. 

Subsequently, the Federal Reserve extended and revised the Interim Policy through the first quarter of 2021. SC subsequently announced that the Federal Reserve approved certain exceptions to the Interim Policy and that SC was permitted to pay first and second quarter 2021 common stock dividends. 

The Federal Reserve announced termination of the Interim Policy and the temporary capital distribution restrictions expired on June 30, 2021. Large firms (including SHUSA) remain subject to the normal restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board's regulatory capital framework, inclusive of the SCB. 

As a result of the potential PCH acquisition announced in August 2021, SHUSA was required to resubmit its 2021 Capital Plan to the Federal Reserve. While the Federal Reserve reviews the resubmitted capital plan, SHUSA must continue to request approval to pay dividends. SHUSA requested and the Federal Reserve approved payment of the SC common dividend for the Q3 2021 and Q4 2021 periods. SHUSA must continue to request approval to pay dividends until the Federal Reserve responds to the resubmitted capital plan and PCH acquisition application. After these responses, SHUSA expects to be subject to the normal restriction imposed by the SCB. 

Federal Reserve Regulation 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, SBNA generally has been required to maintain a rese rve against its transaction accounts (primarily interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing checking accounts). Because reserves must generally be maintained in cash or in low-interest-bearing accounts, the effect of the reserve requirements is to reduce an institution&#8217;s asset yields. On March 15, 2020 the Federal Reserve reduced reserve requirements to 0%. This change took effect on March 26, 2020. 

FHLB System 

The FHLB system was created in 1932 and consists of 11 regional FHLBs. FHLBs are federally-chartered but privately owned institutions created by Congress. The Federal Housing Finance Agency is an agency of the federal government that is charged with overseeing the FHLBs. Each FHLB is owned by its member institutions. The primary purpose of the FHLBs is to provide funding to their members for making housing loans as well as for affordable housing and community development lending. FHLBs are generally able to make advances to their member institutions at interest rates that are lower than could otherwise be obtained by such institutions. As a member, SBNA is required to make minimum investments in FHLB stock based on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. SBNA is a member of and held investments in the FHLB of Pittsburgh which totaled $37.0 million as of December 31, 2021, compared to $77.0 million at December 31, 2020. SBNA utilizes advances from the FHLB to fund balance sheet growth, provide liquidity and for asset and liability management purposes. SBNA had access to advances with the FHLB of up to $11.9 billion at December 31, 2021, and had outstanding advances of $0.3 billion. The level of borrowing capacity SBNA has with the FHLB of Pittsburgh is contingent upon the level of qualified collateral SBNA holds at a given time. 

SBNA received $3.0 million and $17.7 million in dividends on its stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh in 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

Several federal laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, and the USA Patriot Act require all financial institutions to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The USA Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S., imposed compliance and due diligence obligations, created criminal penalties, compelled the production of documents located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the U.S., and clarified the safe harbor from civil liability to clients. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations that further clarify the USA Patriot Act&#8217;s requirements and provide more specific guidance on their application. 

Financial Privacy 

Under the GLBA, financial institutions are required to disclose to their retail customers their policies and practices with respect to sharing nonpublic customer information with their affiliates and non-affiliates, how they maintain customer confidentiality, and how they secure customer information. Customers are required under the GLBA to be provided with the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of information sharing with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions. 

Environmental Laws 

Environmentally-related hazards are a source of high risk and potentially significant liability for financial institutions related to their loans. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution&#8217;s borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution&#8217;s loans to such borrowers, high environmental cleanup costs to the borrower affecting its ability to repay its loans, the subordination of any lien in favor of the institution to a state or federal lien securing clean-up costs, and liability to the institution for cleanup costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property or becomes involved in the management of the borrower. To minimize this risk, SBNA may require an environmental examination of, and reports with respect to, the property of any borrower or prospective borrower if circumstances affecting the property indicate a potential for contamination, taking into consideration the potential loss to the institution in relation to the burdens to the borrower. Such examination must be performed by an engineering firm experienced in environmental risk studies and acceptable to the institution, and the costs of such examinations and reports are the responsibility of the borrower. These costs may be substantial and may deter a prospective borrower from entering into a loan transaction with SBNA. The Company is not aware of any borrower which is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean-up proceeding or any other environmental matter that is likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of SHUSA or its subsidiaries. 

Securities and Investment Regulation 

The Company conducts its securities and investment business activities through its subsidiaries SIS and SSLLC. SIS and SSLLC are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and members of FINRA. SIS&#8217;s activities include investment banking, institutional sales, trading and offering research reports of Latin American and European equity and fixed income securities. SSLLC is also a registered investment adviser with the SEC, and BSI conducts certain securities transactions exempt from SEC registration on behalf of its clients. 

Written Agreements and Regulatory Actions 

See the &#8220;Regulatory Matters&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A and Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of current regulatory actions. 

Corporate Information 

All reports filed electronically by the Company with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Our filings are also accessible through our website at: https://www.santanderus.com/us/investorshareholderrelations. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated herein and is provided for the information of the reader and are not intended to be active links. 

