 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a discussion of the many risks and uncertainties we face, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition (including capital and liquidity), or prospects or the value of or return on an investment in Ally. The information presented below provides an update to, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and other information contained in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K . Except as presented below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors described in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K . 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting us and our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers, and the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, results of operations, and prospects could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public-health crisis that has resulted in widespread volatility and deteriorations in household, business, economic, and market conditions, including in the United States where we conduct nearly all of our business. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our capital, liquidity, and other financial positions and on our business, results of operations, and prospects will depend on a number of evolving factors, including: 

&#8226; 

The duration, extent, and severity of the pandemic . COVID-19 has not yet been contained and could affect significantly more households and businesses. The duration and severity of the pandemic continue to be impossible to predict, as is the potential for a seasonal or other resurgence after its initial containment. 

&#8226; 

The response of governmental and nongovernmental authorities . Many of their actions have been directed toward curtailing household and business activity to contain COVID-19 while simultaneously deploying fiscal- and monetary-policy measures to partially mitigate the adverse effects on individual households and businesses. These actions are not always coordinated or consistent across jurisdictions but, in general, have rapidly expanded in scope and intensity. For example, in many jurisdictions, governments have acted to temporarily close or restrict the operations of automotive dealers, and as a result, we have recently experienced a significant decline in our origination of consumer automotive loans and leases. 

&#8226; 

The effect on our customers, counterparties, employees, and third-party service providers . COVID-19 and its associated consequences and uncertainties are affecting individuals, households, and businesses differently and unevenly. Many, however, have already changed their behavior in response to governmental mandates and advisories to sharply restrain commercial and social interactions. As a result, in the near term, our credit, operational, and other risks have generally increased and, for the foreseeable future, are expected to remain elevated or increase further. 

&#8226; 

The effect on economies and markets . Whether the actions of governmental and nongovernmental authorities will be successful in mitigating the adverse effects of COVID-19 is unclear. National, regional, and local economies and markets could suffer disruptions that are lasting. A prolonged economic slowdown, for example, could result in more severe and enduring declines in new and used vehicle sales and downward pressure on used vehicle values, which could adversely affect our origination of consumer automotive loans and leases and the performance of our existing loans and leases for a significant period of time. In addition, governmental actions are meaningfully influencing the interest-rate environment and financial-market activity, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

During the first quarter of 2020, the most notable impacts to our results of operations were a higher provision expense for credit losses and a decline in the fair value of our portfolio of equity securities. Our provision expense was $903 million for the first quarter of 2020, compared to $282 million for the first quarter of 2019, with the increase primarily driven by $602 million of incremental reserves associated with a deterioration in macroeconomic variables such as unemployment. Our loss on investments during the first quarter of 2020 included $185 million of unrealized losses as a result of changes in the fair value of our portfolio of equity securities, compared to $70 million of unrealized gains for the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to the unfavorable market conditions associated with COVID-19. 

With the spread of COVID-19 in the United States having only begun to accelerate in March 2020, our forecast of macroeconomic conditions and operating results&#8212;including expected lifetime credit losses on our loan portfolio&#8212;is subject to meaningful uncertainty. Evidence of near-term negative effects and trends, however, has surfaced. For example, we experienced declines of approximately 50% in our consumer automotive loan applications during the second half of March 2020, and to a slightly lesser degree, this trend has continued into April. This correlates with downward pressure on the automotive sales and other operating results of our dealer customers, on their capacity to accept the return of leased vehicles, and on used-vehicle auction activity and values. Declining sales and limited operations at dealers also reduced demand in our insurance operations for consumer products such as VSC and GAP protection during the second half of March 2020, and this trend and the resulting decline in written premiums have continued into April. For more detail and further discussion, refer to the section titled Significant Business Developments Related to COVID-19 within the MD&#38;A. 

Ally Financial Inc. &#8226; Form 10-Q 

Governments have taken unprecedented steps to partially mitigate the adverse effects of their containment measures. For example, in late March 2020, the CARES Act was enacted to inject more than $2 trillion of financial assistance into the U.S. economy. The FRB has taken decisive and sweeping actions as well. Since March 15, 2020, these have included a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate to 0 to 1/4 percent, a program to purchase an indeterminate amount of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities, and numerous facilities to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. We also have acted swiftly to support our customers with industry-leading programs and at the same time manage our credit risk. For example, in our automotive finance business, existing customers may elect to defer their loan payments for up to 120 days without late fees being incurred but with finance charges continuing to accrue. As of March 31, 2020 , approximately 716,000 or approximately 18% of our existing consumer automotive customers had enrolled in this loan modification program, and approximately 71% of these enrolled customers had requested a 120-day deferral. Through April 16, 2020 , the number of enrolled customers increased to approximately 1.1 million . For dealers with current accounts, we have offered for up to four months a waiver of curtailments on wholesale floorplan loans, an increase in floorplan advance rates, a deferral of interest and insurance charges on wholesale borrowings, and a deferral of term loan payments . As of March 31, 2020, approximately 2,270 or approximately 72% of eligible dealers had requested at least one form of this assistance. For more detail and further discussion, refer to the section titled Credit Quality Indicators in Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and to the section titled Risk Managemen t within the MD&#38;A. 

The degree to which our actions and those of governments and others will directly or indirectly assist our customers, counterparties, and third-party service providers and advance our business and the economy generally is not yet clear. For example, while our loan-deferral programs may better position customers to resume their regular payments to us in the future and enhance our brand and customer loyalty, these programs may negatively impact our revenue and other results of operations at least in the near term, may produce a higher degree of enrollment and other requests for extensions and rewrites than we have anticipated, and may not be as successful as we expect in managing our credit risk. In addition, while the FRB&#8217;s accommodative monetary policy may benefit us to some degree by supporting economic activity among our customers, this policy and sudden shifts in it may inhibit our ability to grow or sustain net interest income and effectively manage interest-rate risk. Further, while extraordinary governmental intervention in the economy and markets has created stability, the scale of these actions inevitably heightens political, reputational, litigation, and similar risks for financial intermediaries like us. 

We are unable to estimate the near-term and ultimate impacts of COVID-19 on our business and operations at this time. The pandemic could cause us to experience higher credit losses in our lending portfolio, additional increases in our allowance for credit losses, impairment of our goodwill and other financial assets, diminished access to capital markets and other funding sources, further reduced demand for our products and services, and other negative impacts on our financial position, results of operations, and prospects. In addition, while we continue to anticipate that our capital and liquidity positions will be sufficient, sustained adverse effects may impair these positions, prevent us from satisfying our minimum regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory requirements, and result in downgrades in our credit ratings. The COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental mandates and advisories also have necessitated changes in the way we and our third-party service providers continue operations, and the length of time each of us may be required to operate under these circumstances, as well as the potential for conditions to worsen or for significant disruptions to occur, remains unpredictable. All of these risks and uncertainties can be expected to persist at least until the pandemic is demonstrably and sustainably contained, authorities cease curbing household and business activity, and consumer and business confidence recover. 

