 Item 1: Legal Proceedings 

In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the Company establishes an accrued liability for litigation and threatened litigation actions and proceedings when those actions present loss contingencies, which are both probable and estimable. In actions for which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, the Company determines whether it can estimate a loss or range of possible loss. To determine whether a possible loss is estimable, the Company reviews and evaluates its material litigation on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. This review may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on substantive or dispositive motions, and settlement discussions. 

Lehman Holdings Matter 

On January 15, 2015, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;Lehman Holdings&#8221;) sent a demand letter asserting that Wintrust Mortgage must indemnify it for losses arising from loans sold by Wintrust Mortgage to Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB under a Loan Purchase Agreement between Wintrust Mortgage, as successor to SGB Corporation, and Lehman Brothers Bank. The demand was the precursor for triggering the alternative dispute resolution process mandated by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Lehman Holdings triggered the mandatory alternative dispute resolution process on October 16, 2015. On February 3, 2016, following an adverse ruling by the federal Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit concerning the applicable statute of limitations on certain Lehman Holdings claims, Lehman Holdings filed a complaint against Wintrust Mortgage and 150 other entities from which it had purchased loans in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. On March 16, 2016, Wintrust Mortgage participated in the court-ordered mediation, but the mediation did not result in a consensual resolution of the dispute. Lehman Holdings filed an amended complaint against Wintrust Mortgage on December 29, 2016. On March 31, 2017, Wintrust Mortgage moved to dismiss the amended complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and improper venue or to transfer venue. Argument on the motions to dismiss were heard on June 12, 2018. The motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction was denied on August 14, 2018 and the defendants&#8217; motion to transfer venue denied on October 2, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage appealed the denial of its motion to dismiss based on improper venue and the denial of its motion to transfer venue. 

On October 2, 2018, Lehman Holdings asked the court for permission to amend its complaints against Wintrust Mortgage and the other defendants to add loans allegedly purchased from the defendants and sold to various RMBS trusts. The court granted this request and allowed Lehman Holdings to assert the additional claims against existing defendants as a supplemental complaint. Lehman Holdings filed its supplemental complaint against Wintrust Mortgage on December 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the supplemental complaint on May 13, 2019. Fact discovery is ongoing. Wintrust Mortgage is currently evaluating whether it has obtained sufficient information to assess the merits of Lehman Holding's additional claims and to estimate the likelihood or amount of any potential liability for the additional claims. 

The Company has reserved an amount for the Lehman Holdings action that is immaterial to its results of operations or financial condition. Such litigation and threatened litigation actions necessarily involve substantial uncertainty and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate resolution or to determine whether, or to what extent, any loss with respect to these legal proceedings may exceed the amounts reserved by the Company. 

Wintrust Mortgage Matter 

On October 17, 2018, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California against Wintrust Mortgage alleging violation of California wage payment statutes on behalf of herself and all other hourly, non-exempt employees of Wintrust Mortgage in California from October 17, 2014 through the present. Wintrust Mortgage received service of the complaint on November 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the complaint on February 25, 2019. On November 1, 2019, the plaintiff&#8217;s counsel filed a letter with the California Department of Labor advising that it was initiating an action under California&#8217;s Private Attorney General Act statute based on the same alleged violations. In November 2019, the parties reached a settlement agreement. The parties executed a settlement agreement and on February 26, 2020, plaintiff moved the court for approval. A hearing on the motion to approve settlement was originally set for June 16, 2020, but the court continued the motion to September 8, 2020. The Company has reserved an amount for this proposed settlement that is immaterial to its results of operations or financial condition. 

Northbrook Bank Matter 

On October 17, 2018, two individual plaintiffs filed suit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against Northbrook Bank and Tamer Moumen on behalf of themselves and a class of approximately 42 investors in a hedge fund run by defendant Moumen. Plaintiffs allege that defendant Moumen ran a fraudulent Ponzi scheme and ran those funds through deposit accounts at Northbrook Bank. They allege the bank was negligent in failing to close the deposit accounts and that it intentionally aided and abetted defendant Moumen in the alleged fraud. They contend that Northbrook Bank is liable for losses in excess of $6 million. Northbrook Bank filed its motion to dismiss the complaint on January 15, 2019, which the court granted on March 5, 2019. On April 3, 2019, Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint based on similar allegations. Northbrook Bank did not believe the amended complaint cured the pleading defects recognized by the court and filed a motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint on May 17, 2019. The court heard this motion on July 17, 2019 and once again dismissed the complaint without prejudice. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on August 12, 2019. Northbrook again moved to dismiss the complaint. On November 6, 2019, the court dismissed the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs filed an appeal on December 2, 2019. This appeal has been fully briefed and remains pending before the Illinois First District Appellate Court. Northbrook Bank believes plaintiffs&#8217; allegations are legally and factually meritless and otherwise lacks sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Wintrust Bank Matter 

On April 30, 2020, A.D. Sims LLC on behalf of itself and other similarly situated plaintiffs filed suit in the federal district court for the Northern District of Illinois against Wintrust Financial Corporation, Wintrust Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., Cross River Bank, and an additional 4,971 named and unnamed defendants alleging the defendant financial institutions&#8217; failure to pay agent fees on loans issued by them under the federal CARES Act&#8217;s Payroll Protection Program (&#8220;PPP&#8221;). Plaintiffs allege the collective damages could exceed $3.8 billion and have asked the court to require the defendants to establish, on a pro rata basis, a fund which could be used to pay agent fees due. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed Wintrust Financial Corporation as a defendant in this suit on June 29, 2020. Plaintiffs&#8217; attorneys have filed similar actions across the country and have moved the federal panel for Multi-District Litigation to consolidate these PPP Agent Fee class actions before a single judge. This motion was heard on July 30, 2020 and denied on August 5, 2020. Wintrust Bank believes plaintiffs&#8217; allegations are legally and factually meritless and otherwise lacks sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Other Matters 

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Based on information currently available and upon consultation with counsel, management believes that the eventual outcome of any pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings described above, including our ordinary course litigation, will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations or financial condition for a particular period. 

