 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Truist is a banking organization headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Truist conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Truist Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 

Merger with SunTrust 

Effective December 6, 2019, the Company completed its previously announced Merger with SunTrust pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 7, 2019 and amended as of June 14, 2019. 

SunTrust offered a full line of financial services for consumers, businesses, corporations, institutions, and not-for-profit entities, both through branches (located primarily in Florida, Georgia, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Maryland, South Carolina, and the District of Columbia) and through other digital and national delivery channels. Additionally, SunTrust offered deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services to its clients through a selection of full, self and assisted-service channels. Other subsidiaries of SunTrust provided capital markets, securities brokerage, investment banking and wealth management services. SunTrust had 1,164 banking offices as of the Merger date. Refer to "Note 2. Business Combinations" for additional details related to the Merger. 

Operating Subsidiaries 

Truist Bank, Truist's largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for consumer and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, corporations, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 2,958 offices (as of December 31, 2019) and its digital platform. 

Services 

Truist's subsidiaries offer a variety of services to consumer and commercial clients. Truist's objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all of their financial needs. 

##TABLE_START Table 1: Services &#160; Consumer Services: &#160; Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Bankcard lending Association services Consumer finance Capital markets services Home equity lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Home mortgage lending Commercial finance Insurance Commercial middle market lending Investment brokerage services Commercial mortgage lending Mobile/online banking Corporate banking Payment solutions Floor plan lending Private equity investments Governmental finance Retail deposit services Institutional trust services Small business lending Insurance Student lending Insurance premium finance Wealth management/private banking International banking services Investment banking services Leasing Merchant services Mortgage warehouse lending Treasury and payment solutions Private equity investments Real estate lending Supply chain financing ##TABLE_END

Truist Financial Corporation 5 

Market Area 

The following table reflects Truist's deposit market share and branch locations by state: 

##TABLE_START Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State &#160; % of Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Georgia 21 % 1st 339 &#160; North Carolina (1) 13 &#160; 1st 402 &#160; West Virginia 2 &#160; 1st 54 &#160; Virginia 14 &#160; 2nd 444 &#160; Maryland 7 &#160; 2nd 241 &#160; South Carolina 4 &#160; 3rd 129 &#160; Florida 22 &#160; 3rd 672 &#160; Tennessee 5 &#160; 3rd 148 &#160; Washington, D.C. 2 &#160; 5th 32 &#160; Kentucky 2 &#160; 4th 81 &#160; Alabama 1 &#160; 6th 70 &#160; Pennsylvania 4 &#160; 9th 203 &#160; Texas 2 &#160; 15th 108 &#160; New Jersey 1 &#160; 19th 26 &#160; Other states NA &#160; NA 9 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(1) Excludes home office deposits. 

(2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2019. Percentiles and rankings reflect combined data for SunTrust Bank and Branch Bank. 

(3) As of December 31, 2019. 

Truist operates in markets covering numerous industries. Management believes that Truist's community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company's ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop its digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are competitive in meeting clients' expectations. Furthermore, Truist believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive and constantly evolving. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes as well as continued consolidation within the industry could result in additional competition from new and existing market participants. Truist's subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to many of the same regulatory supervision and restrictions as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and with lower cost and capital structures. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects our ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. For additional information concerning markets, Truist's competitive position and business strategies, see "Market Area" above and "General Business Development" in the discussion that follows. 

General Business Development 

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients' needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist's long-term strategy encompasses both organic growth and mergers or acquisitions of complimentary banks and financial institutions. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy 

Truist's merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: 

&#8226; the organization must be a good fit with Truist's culture; 

&#8226; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive; 

&#8226; any risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place to ensure any residual risks fall within Truist's risk appetite; and 

&#8226; the transaction must meet Truist's financial criteria. 

6 Truist Financial Corporation 

Truist's growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Truist will assess future opportunities, primarily within or contiguous to Truist's existing footprint, based on market conditions and may, among other possibilities, pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, certain lending businesses and fee income generating financial services businesses. 

Regulatory Considerations 

The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. 

Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. While the regulatory environment has entered a period of rebalancing of the post financial crisis framework, Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant state and federal laws to which Truist is subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. 

General 

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and regulation, examination and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the NCCOB, the FDIC and the CFPB. 

Examinations by Truist&#8217;s regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. 

The results of examination activity by any of Truist&#8217;s federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist&#8217;s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements, against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable law or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair or deceptive act or practice. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of Truist&#8217;s operations. 

In November 2018, the FRB finalized a new confidential rating system that applies to all BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, including Truist. Under this rating system, component ratings are assigned for capital planning and positions, liquidity risk management and positions, and governance and controls; a standalone composite rating will not be assigned. To be considered "well managed" under this rating system, a firm must be rated "broadly meets expectations" or "conditionally meets expectations" for each of its three component ratings. 

Truist Bank is subject to state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NYSE. 

Truist Financial Corporation 7 

FHC Regulation 

Truist has elected to be treated as a FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting, insurance and merchant banking. In order to maintain its status as a FHC, Truist and all of its affiliated IDIs must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC, and may place limitations on its ability to conduct all of the business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries, or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

Certain U.S. BHCs are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements. As a result, Truist is subject to more stringent standards, including liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management standards, than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. 

For example, on June 14, 2018, the FRB finalized rules that establish single-counterparty credit limits for banking organizations with greater than $250 billion in total consolidated assets. Truist will be subject to these rules over a phase-in period and will be subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. 

In October 2019, the federal bank regulatory agencies finalized the Tailoring Rules, which adjust the thresholds at which certain regulatory requirements apply to large U.S. banking organizations based on size, complexity and other risk-based factors. Specifically, these rules establish four risk-based categories for determining applicability of enhanced prudential standards, capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking organizations. These rules became effective December 31, 2019. Under these rules, Truist meets the criteria to be categorized as a Category III banking organization, which generally includes bank holding companies with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets, and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures. 

Resolution Planning 

Truist and Truist Bank are required by statute and regulation to file, maintain and update plans for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. The FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate Truist's resolution plan. The FRB and FDIC are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if the agencies determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could require the banking organization to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. 

In addition, Truist Bank is required by an FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking that would modify the content and frequency of resolution planning requirements for systemically important insured depository institutions. While this proposal did not include specific details regarding the content or frequency of future bank level resolution planning requirements, the FDIC indicated that the revised approach would establish tiered resolution planning requirements based on the size, complexity and other factors of applicable insured depository institutions. The FDIC Chairman has delayed the next round of submissions of resolution plans for IDIs until this rulemaking process has been completed; as a result, Truist Bank does not currently have an anticipated submission date for a resolution plan. 

In October 2019, the FRB and FDIC finalized a joint rule that modifies certain resolution planning requirements for large BHCs. As a Category III banking organization, Truist will be required to submit a resolution plan every three years, with the first resolution plan under the new rule to be submitted by July 1, 2021. Later resolution plans under this rule will alternate between full resolution plans and targeted resolution plans. 

8 Truist Financial Corporation 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under baseline and stressful macroeconomic conditions, and Truist must obtain non-objection from the FRB for capital distributions proposed in its capital plan in connection with the FRB&#8217;s annual CCAR process. Truist generally may pay dividends and interest on capital securities and repurchase or retire capital securities only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the FRB and that has received a non-objection from the FRB. 

The FRB&#8217;s CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework require large BHCs such as Truist to conduct company-run stress tests and subject them to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. Among other things, the company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distributions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing stress scenarios and internal supervisory models. The results of these stress tests are used to inform the FRB&#8217;s objection or non-objection to those BHC's capital plans. As a Category III banking organization, Truist will be subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis. 

The FRB announced that BHCs that have adopted the CECL accounting standard in 2020 will be required to incorporate CECL into company-run stress tests starting in the 2020 cycle. 

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 6, 2020. The FRB will announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2020. The capital plan period starts July 1 of the following calendar year. 

In addition to stress testing for Truist, the FDIC requires Truist Bank to conduct annual company-run stress tests. 

In April 2018, the FRB issued a proposal to integrate the annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements for large BHCs. See the &#8220;Proposed Stress Buffer Requirements&#8221; section for additional discussion of this proposal. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company. 

The Parent Company&#8217;s ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC&#8217;s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities, is subject to the FRB&#8217;s non-objection to Truist&#8217;s capital plan as part of the FRB&#8217;s CCAR process discussed above in the &#8220;Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements&#8221; section. 

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

U.S. Basel III Capital Rules 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the Basel III Rules adopted by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist&#8217;s operations or financial condition. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist&#8217;s or Truist Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications. 

Truist Financial Corporation 9 

Under the Basel III Rules, Truist&#8217;s and Truist Bank&#8217;s assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions&#8217; risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders' equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

In July 2019, the FDIC, the FRB and the OCC issued final rules that simplify the capital treatment of mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that an institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as simplify the recognition and calculation of minority interests that are includable in regulatory capital, for non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including Truist and Truist Bank. Banking organizations may adopt these changes beginning on January 1, 2020, and must adopt these changes as of April 1, 2020. Truist has elected to implement these changes as of January 1, 2020 and anticipates an approximate 10 basis point reduction in CET1 and other risk-based capital ratios. 

The Basel III Rules also require banking organizations to maintain a capital conservation buffer to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management. The capital conservation buffer was at its fully phased-in level of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets throughout 2019. For certain large banking organizations, the capital conservation buffer could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist and Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the &#8220;Market Risk&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to market risk management. 

In addition, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets (net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions). Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. 

The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations are reflected in the table below. The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect the higher capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC's particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. 

10 Truist Financial Corporation 

The following table presents the minimum regulatory capital ratios, well-capitalized minimums, and minimum ratio plus capital conservation buffer: 

##TABLE_START Table 3: Capital Requirements Under Basel III Rules Minimum Capital Well Capitalized (1) Minimum Capital Plus Capital Conservation Buffer (2) CET1 risk-based capital ratio: 

Truist 4.5 % NA &#160; 7.0 % Truist Bank 4.5 &#160; 6.5 % 7.0 &#160; Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: Truist 6.0 &#160; 6.0 &#160; 8.5 &#160; Truist Bank 6.0 &#160; 8.0 &#160; 8.5 &#160; Total risk-based capital ratio: Truist 8.0 &#160; 10.0 &#160; 10.5 &#160; Truist Bank 8.0 &#160; 10.0 &#160; 10.5 &#160; Leverage ratio: Truist 4.0 &#160; NA &#160; N/A &#160; Truist Bank 4.0 &#160; 5.0 &#160; N/A &#160; Supplementary leverage ratio: (3) Truist 3.0 &#160; NA &#160; N/A &#160; Truist Bank 3.0 &#160; NA &#160; N/A &#160; ##TABLE_END

(1) Reflects the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist under FRB regulations and the well-capitalized standard applicable to Truist Bank. 

(2) Reflects the fully phased-in capital conservation buffer of 2.5% applicable during 2019. 

(3) Truist and Truist Bank will become subject to the Supplementary leverage ratio effective January 1, 2020. 

On December 21, 2018, the regulatory agencies issued a final rule that revises the agencies&#8217; regulatory capital rules to reflect the impact of new accounting and reporting requirements under CECL. The rule identifies which allowances under the new current expected credit losses accounting standard would be eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital, provides banking organizations the option to phase in the day-one effects on regulatory capital that may result from the adoption of the new accounting standard over a three-year period, and amends certain regulatory disclosure requirements consistent with the new accounting standard. 

Proposed Stress Buffer Requirements 

On April 10, 2018, the FRB issued a proposal to create a single capital requirement by integrating its annual capital planning and stress testing requirements with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements. The proposal, which would apply to certain bank holding companies, including Truist, would introduce a stress capital buffer and a stress leverage buffer and related changes to the capital planning and stress testing processes. For risk-based capital requirements, the stress capital buffer would replace the existing capital conservation buffer, which is 2.5% as of January 1, 2019. The stress capital buffer would equal the greater of (i) the maximum decline in Truist&#8217;s CET1 capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario over the supervisory stress test measurement period, plus the sum of the ratios of the dollar amount of its planned common stock dividends to its projected risk-weighted assets for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period, or (ii) 2.5%. For the Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, the stressed leveraged buffer would equal the maximum decline in Truist&#8217;s Tier 1 Leverage Ratio under the severely adverse scenario over the supervisory stress test measurement period, plus the sum of the ratios of the dollar amount of its planned common stock dividends to its projected total leverage assets for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the supervisory stress test projection period. 

The proposal would make related changes to capital planning and stress testing processes for BHCs subject to the stress buffer requirements. In particular, the proposal would remove the 30% dividend payout ratio that has been used as a threshold for heightened supervisory scrutiny and would assume that BHCs maintain a constant level of assets and risk-weighted assets throughout the supervisory stress test projection period. 

Truist Financial Corporation 11 

Liquidity Requirements 

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. In June 2016, the federal banking regulators proposed a rule to implement the NSFR. The NSFR is designed to promote stable, longer-term funding of assets and business activities over a one-year time horizon and would apply to Truist and Truist Bank, if adopted. Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist and Truist Bank, as Category III banking organizations, will qualify for reduced LCR and proposed NSFR requirements calibrated at 85% of the full requirements. 

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to, among other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC&#8217;s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies are required to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to financial institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: "well-capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." To be considered "well-capitalized," an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company&#8217;s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments. 

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Acquisitions 

Truist is subject to numerous laws that limit its acquisition activity. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal law enumerates the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations&#8217; compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

12 Truist Financial Corporation 

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, or such lesser or greater percentage established by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the ratio of the resulting company's liabilities exceeds 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. 

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

DIF Assessments 

Truist Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

In March 2016, the FDIC imposed a temporary surcharge for insured depository institutions with total assets of at least $10 billion, which took effect July 1, 2016 and ended on September 30, 2018. Truist incurred incremental regulatory charges of $63 million for 2018, $84 million for 2017 and $42 million for 2016 arising from the surcharge. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, HMDA, FCRA, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. The CFPB may engage in rulemakings affecting prepaid cards, data on small business lending, HMDA, and payday, vehicle title, and certain high-cost installment loans. 

Truist Financial Corporation 13 

During November 2019, SunTrust Bank entered into a consent order with the FRB, relating to certain identified legacy compliance issues and validation of certain prior remediation actions of SunTrust regarding such identified issues. Truist has committed to cause Truist Bank, as successor to SunTrust Bank, to comply with the obligations in the order. 

Patriot Act 

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions' operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent and report money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

BSA/AML and Sanctions 

Truist is subject to a number of anti-money laundering laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States. AML requirements are primarily derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the the Patriot Act. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists' ability to access and move funds used in support of terrorist activities. Among other things, BSA/AML laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or maintain adequate AML related controls can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational damage. 

During December 2016, Truist Bank entered into a consent order with the FDIC and the NCCOB and, in January 2017, Truist entered into a cease and desist order with the FRB and NCCOB, relating to certain internal control deficiencies within the BSA/AML Compliance Program. These orders have since been terminated with no money laundering activity identified and no financial penalties levied. 

The U.S. Treasury's OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, or countries, identified as "Specially Designated Nationals," such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These rules require the blocking of assets held by, and prohibit transfers of property to such individuals, entities or countries. Blocked assets, such as property or bank deposits, cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Truist maintains an OFAC program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject Truist to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties. 

Privacy and Cyber Security 

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber security through guidance, examinations and regulations. 

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary&#8217;s policies and procedures. 

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which went into effect on January 1, 2020. Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and proposed legislation are still subject to revision or formal guidance and they may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company's understanding. 

14 Truist Financial Corporation 

In addition, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law (which has been adopted by eight states as of February 2020) are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by Truist. 

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Truist Bank's primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: "Outstanding," "Satisfactory," "Needs to Improve" or "Substantial Noncompliance." This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application. On December 12, 2019, the FDIC and OCC issued a proposed rule to overhaul the regulatory framework for evaluating banks' CRA performance. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer's choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for "excessive or chronic" client use and undertake "meaningful and effective" follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. 

Volcker Rule 

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading for our own account, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds. 

As of October 2019, the five regulatory agencies charged with implementing the Volcker Rule finalized amendments to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s proprietary trading and compliance provisions. These amendments tailor the Volcker Rule&#8217;s compliance requirements to the amount of a firm&#8217;s trading activity, revise the definition of trading account, clarify certain key provisions in the Volcker Rule, and modify the information companies are required to provide the federal agencies. Compliance with the amendments is required by January 1, 2021, with early adoption permitted. 

In early 2020, the five federal agencies proposed additional amendments to the Volcker Rule related to the restrictions on ownership interests in and relationships with covered funds. Truist will continue to monitor these Volcker Rule-related developments and assess their impact on its operations as necessary. These requirements do not have a material impact on Truist's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Truist Financial Corporation 15 

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC&#8217;s regulatory regime, including trade reporting and record keeping requirements, margin requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. Truist Bank expects to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer in 2021. Such registration will subject Truist Bank&#8217;s security-based swaps business to requirements that are similar to the CFTC rules applicable to swap dealers, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, margin, and potentially mandatory clearing and exchange requirements. 

Truist Bank&#8217;s uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements. The variation margin requirements are currently in effect and the initial margin requirements are phasing in over a period of four years, and will be fully phased-in on September 1, 2020, depending on the level of derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. Truist Bank&#8217;s derivatives business involving uncleared swaps is expected to become subject to initial margin requirements established by the FRB, which may subject Truist Bank to initial margin requirements that exceed current market practice. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 

Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist&#8217;s ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns. 

In June 2019, the SEC finalized Regulation Best Interest, which imposes a new standard of conduct on SEC-registered broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers. In addition, the SEC finalized a new summary disclosure form that broker-dealers and investment advisers must provide to retail customers. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries must comply with these requirements, as applicable, as of June 2020. 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor's ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. Compliance with the rule is required by April 1, 2020. In July 2019, the FDIC amended the rules related to recordkeeping requirements and timely deposit insurance determination to allow covered IDIs, such as Truist, an optional one-year extension of the original compliance deadline to April 1, 2021. 

Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements 

During May 2016, several financial regulators jointly issued a proposed rule designed to prohibit incentive-based compensation arrangements that could encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss. The proposed rule would require the applicable compensation arrangements to be considered against a number of factors, including a requirement that the arrangements contain both financial and non-financial measures of performance. In addition, the requirements would differ based on the size of the institution, and institutions with assets exceeding $50 billion would be subject to mandatory deferral, forfeiture/adjustment and clawback requirements for employees subject to the rule. 

16 Truist Financial Corporation 

Other Regulatory Matters 

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning Truist's business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2019, Truist had approximately 59,000 employees. 

Website Access to Truist's Filings with the SEC 

&#160; 

Truist's electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website, IR.Truist.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist's SEC filings are also available through the SEC's website at sec.gov . 

Corporate Governance 

Information with respect to Truist's Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist's website, IR.Truist.com. 

Truist Financial Corporation 17 

Executive Officers 

##TABLE_START Executive Officer Recent Work Experience Years of Service Age Kelly S. King Chairman since January 2010. Chief Executive Officer since January 2009. 47 &#160; 71 &#160; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer &#160; &#160; William H. Rogers, Jr. President and Chief Operating Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. * &#160; 62 &#160; President and Chief Operating Officer Daryl N. Bible Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. 12 &#160; 58 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

&#160; &#160; Scott Case Chief Information Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Information Officer since February 2018. Chief Information Officer at Ciox Health from 2017 to 2018. Chief Technology Officer of SunTrust Consumer Segment from 2015 to 2017. * &#160; 49 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer 

Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. SunTrust Commercial and Business Banking Executive from 2013 to 2017. * &#160; 57 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group 

Ellen M. Fitzsimmons Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity and HR since December 2019. Previously SunTrust General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2018. General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of CSX Corporation from 2003 to 2017. * &#160; 59 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity and HR 

Christopher L. Henson Head of Banking and Insurance since December 2019. President from December 2016 to December 2019 and Chief Operating Officer from January 2009 to December 2019. 35 &#160; 58 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Banking and Insurance 

&#160; &#160; Ellen Koebler Deputy Chief Risk Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Risk Officer since January 2019. SunTrust Consumer Lending and Deposit Solutions Executive from 2016 to 2018. E*Trade Chief Risk Officer in 2016. SunTrust Chief Market Risk and Enterprise Analytics Officer from 2014 to 2016. * &#160; 50 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Risk Officer 

Michael B. Maguire Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive. * &#160; 41 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Head of National Consumer Finance &#38; Payments 

Joseph M. Thompson Head of Truist Wealth since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Head of Private Wealth Management since August 2014. * &#160; 53 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Truist Wealth 

Brant J. Standridge Head of Retail Community Banking since December 2019. President, Retail Banking since January 2018. Lending Group Manager from August 2016 to December 2017. Regional President in Texas from January 2015 to August 2016. 21 &#160; 44 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and President, Retail Banking 

Clarke R. Starnes III Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. 37 &#160; 60 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer 

&#160; &#160; David H. Weaver Head of Commercial Community Banking since December 2019. President, Community Banking since December 2016. Community Banking Group Executive from 2010 to December 2016. 24 &#160; 53 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Community Banking 

&#160; &#160; Dont&#225; L. Wilson Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer since November 2018. Chief Client Experience Officer since August 2016. Regional President in Georgia from December 2014 to July 2016. 21 &#160; 43 &#160; Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer 

##TABLE_END

* Became an Executive Officer of Truist on December 6, 2019, upon the closing of the Merger. 

18 Truist Financial Corporation 

