 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The following risk factor supplements the risk factors disclosed in Truist's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to Truist or that management has deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect Truist's business, financial condition, or operating results. 

The effects of COVID-19 have adversely impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact, the Company&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has severely disrupted almost all economic activity in the U.S. Despite the partial lifting of federal and state shelter-in-place orders, some of which have been renewed, it remains unknown when there will be a return to normal economic activity due to continued significant numbers of new cases, and increased economic stress associated with the pandemic. Truist temporarily limited access to certain offices, limited branches to drive-thru and appointment only, suspended some services and the majority of the Company&#8217;s workforce is working remotely, which may increase cybersecurity risks to the Company. Approximately 90% of branches are open and unlocked, or open with controlled access. Truist continues to follow appropriate COVID-19 safety protocols, including proper social distancing. Commercial clients are experiencing varying levels of disruptions or restrictions on their business activity and supply chains, closures of facilities or decreases in demand for their products and services. Consumer clients are experiencing interrupted income or unemployment. Certain industries have been particularly susceptible to the effects of the pandemic, such as hotels, resorts, cruise lines, oil and gas companies, senior and acute care facilities, restaurants, and other sensitive retail businesses, and Truist has outstanding loans to clients in these industries. In addition, in March 2020, Moody&#8217;s Investor Services downgraded its outlook on U.S. banks to &#8220;negative&#8221; from &#8220;stable&#8221; due in part to the concerns presented by the pandemic. The global financial markets have also experienced significant volatility. The duration of this severe economic disruption and its related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. 

The effects of the pandemic have already resulted in an increase in the allowance for credit losses, a reduction of fee income, a reduction of net interest margin and an increase in expenses. Prolonged continuation of current conditions could worsen these impacts and also affect the Company&#8217;s capital and liquidity position, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause an outflow of deposits, cause significant property damage, in case of civil unrest or vandalism, influence the recognition of credit losses on loans and securities and further increase the allowance for credit losses, result in additional lost revenue, cause additional increases in expenses, result in goodwill impairment charges, result in the impairment of other financial and nonfinancial assets, and increase the Company&#8217;s cost of capital. 

Intensive government actions to mitigate the economic suffering caused by the pandemic may not be successful or may result in increased pressure on the banking sector. Net interest margin has been, and is likely to continue to be, affected by the very low interest rate environment. The application of forbearance and payment deferral policies beyond any statutory requirements may impact Truist&#8217;s interest income. Truist participated in the SBA&#8217;s PPP as an eligible lender with the benefit of a government guaranty of loans to small business clients, many of whom may face difficulties even after being granted such a loan. The Company has registered to participate in Federal Reserve supported lending programs for Main Street-eligible borrowers as well. The Company faces increased risks, in terms of credit, fraud risk and litigation, in light of participation in these programs. Truist has already been named in several lawsuits relating to its participation in the PPP. 

It is possible that the pandemic and its aftermath will lead to a prolonged economic slowdown or recession in the U.S. economy or the world economy in general. The ultimate impact on the Company&#8217;s financial condition, results of operation, and liquidity and capital position will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the pandemic and the actions to contain or treat its impact. Moreover, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

