OVERVIEW The Corporation is a diversified, publicly-owned financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Corporation has operations in Puerto Rico, the United States (“U.S.”) mainland, and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands. In Puerto Rico, the Corporation provides retail, mortgage, and commercial banking services through its principal banking subsidiary, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico (“BPPR”), as well as investment banking, brokerdealer, auto and equipment leasing and financing, and insurance services through specialized subsidiaries. In the U.S. mainland, the Corporation provides retail, mortgage and commercial banking services through its New York-chartered banking subsidiary, Popular Bank (“PB” or “Popular U.S.”) which has branches located in New York, New Jersey and Florida. Note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements presents information about the Corporation’s business segments. The Corporation has several investments which it accounts for under the equity method. These include the 16.16% interest in EVERTEC, a 15.84% interest in Centro Financiero BHD Leon, S.A. (“BHD Leon”), among other investments in limited partnerships which mainly hold loans and investment securities. EVERTEC provides transaction processing services throughout the Caribbean and Latin America, and also provides to the Corporation core banking and transaction processing and other services. BHD León is a diversified financial services institution operating in the Dominican Republic. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Corporation recorded approximately $43.3 million in earnings from these investments on an aggregate basis. The carrying amounts of these investments as of December 31, 2020 were $250.5 million. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) surfaced in Wuhan, China and has since spread globally to other countries and jurisdictions, including the mainland United States and Puerto Rico. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted and negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, significantly increased unemployment levels worldwide and decreased consumer confidence and commercial activity generally, including in the markets in which we do business, leading to an increased risk of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. The disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic had an impact on the macroeconomic environment and therefore on the financial results of the Corporation. Although certain measures initially imposed in response to the pandemic by the governments of Puerto Rico, the United States and United States Virgin Islands, including lockdowns, business closures, mandatory curfews and limits to public activities, were thereafter gradually relaxed throughout 2020 to allow for the gradual reopening of the economy, certain restrictions remain in place, which result in many businesses not being able to operate at their full capacity. The Corporation’s results for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 reflect the benefit of increased economic activity resulting from such reopening and the related improvement in the macroeconomic environment, as well as the impact of the various government stimulus programs launched in response to the pandemic. Beginning in March 2020, the Corporation implemented several financial relief programs in response to the pandemic, including loan payment moratoriums, suspensions of foreclosures and other collection activity, as well as waivers of certain fees and service charges. 4 POPULAR, INC. 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The following is a summary of the main steps the Corporation undertook in response to the COVID-19 outbreak: Employees • Broadened remote working capabilities through the use of technology; • Executed actions to support employees working in our offices, including sanitation measures, social distance, staggered shifts and the distribution of masks and gloves; • Provided special compensation incentives to front-line employees (in our branches and call centers); and • Expanded health insurance benefits, including free COVID-19 tests and the availability of telephone consultations to employees and covered family members. Extended health insurance coverage to part-time employees. Customers • Published dedicated phoneline and online tool to request financial assistance for customers impacted by COVID-19; • Offered payment moratoriums for eligible customers in mortgage, consumer loans, credit cards, auto loans and leases and certain commercial credit facilities, subject to certain terms and conditions; • Suspended residential property foreclosures and evictions, as well as most other collection activity; • Waived ATM fees and early withdrawal penalties on Certificates of Deposits; • Offered expedited lines of credit of up to $100,000 for BPPR commercial clients with favorable terms; and • Mobilized to offer Small Business Administration loans under the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) to affected businesses; funded approximately $1.4 billion of PPP loans. Community • Established a fund with an initial contribution of $1 million to support efforts in three primary areas: a) medical equipment and healthcare projects that combat COVID-19; b) entrepreneurs, small and medium businesses, providing financial advice and business continuity support; and c) non-profit organizations to ensure the continuity of their services. During the third quarter of 2020, the Corporation reinstated the imposition of the fees it elected to waive in connection with such financial relief programs and resumed delinquent loan collection efforts. During 2020, the Corporation had granted loan payment moratoriums to 127,117 eligible retail customers with an aggregate book value of $4.4 billion, and to 5,099 eligible commercial clients with an aggregate book value of $3.9 billion as detailed below. These include loan payment moratoriums of government guaranteed loans that qualified for disaster relief programs as well as other available alternatives. While COVID-19-related moratoriums were offered beginning in March of 2020, certain clients benefitted from loan payment moratoriums offered by the Corporation since mid-January 2020 as a result of seismic activity in the Southern region of the island in January 2020. At December 31, 2020, 127,857 loans with an aggregate book value of $7.8 billion had already completed their payment moratorium period, while 4,359 loans with an aggregate book value of $0.5 billion remained under the moratorium. As of the end of the year, 97% of COVID-19 payment deferrals had expired. After excluding government guaranteed loans, 115,079 of remaining loans, or 94%, with an aggregate book value of $6.9 billion were current on their payments as of December 31, 2020. Loans considered current exclude those loans for which the COVID-19 related modification has expired but have subsequently been subject to other loss mitigation alternatives. Certain hardhit sectors, such as the hospitality sector, may require additional concessions in 2021. Refer to the Credit Risk section of the MD&A for additional information regarding the moratoriums granted by loan portfolio. The delinquency status of loans subject to the Corporation’s payment moratorium programs remains unaltered during the payment deferral period and the Corporation continues to accrue interest income during such term. The extent to which the pandemic further impacts our business, results of operations and financial condition (including our regulatory capital, liquidity ratios and realizability of deferred tax assets), as well as the operations of our clients, customers, service providers and suppliers, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the speed and strength of economic recovery and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response thereto. Impact of the adoption of the current expected credit loss model (“CECL”) The Corporation adopted the new CECL accounting standard effective on January 1, 2020, as discussed in Note 3- “New Accounting Pronouncements”. As a result of the adoption of the CECL model, the Corporation recorded a net increase in its allowance for credit losses related to its loan portfolio, unfunded commitments and credit recourse guarantees amounting to $306 million. The Corporation also recognized an allowance for credit losses of approximately $13 million related to its held-to-maturity debt securities portfolio. The adjustments to reflect the increase in the allowance for credit losses was recorded as a decrease to the opening balance of retained earnings at January 1, 2020, net of deferred tax asset, POPULAR, INC. 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 5 except for approximately $17 million related to purchased credit impaired (“PCI”) loans previously accounted under ASC Subtopic 310-30, which resulted in a reclassification between certain contra loan balance accounts to the allowance for credit losses. As part of the adoption of CECL, the Corporation made the election to break the existing pools of PCI loans, which were excluded from non-performing status, in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance. Upon being measured at the individual loan level, these loans are no longer excluded from non-performing status, resulting in an increase of $278 million in NPLs as of January 1, 2020. This increase included $144 million in loans that were over 90 days past due and $134 million in loans that were not delinquent in their payment terms but were reported as non-performing due to other credit quality considerations. The Corporation availed itself of the option to phase in over a period of three years, beginning on January 1, 2022, the day-one effects on regulatory capital arising from the adoption of CECL. Refer to the Regulatory Capital section of this MD&A for additional information on regulatory capital. Common Stock Repurchase Plan On May 27, 2020, the Corporation completed a $500 million accelerated share repurchase transaction (“ASR”) with respect to its common stock. On March 19, 2020 (the “early termination date”), the dealer counterparty to the ASR exercised its right under the ASR agreement to terminate the transaction because the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock fell below a specified level due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global markets. As a result of such early termination, the final settlement of the ASR, which was originally expected to occur during the fourth quarter of 2020, occurred during the second quarter of 2020. Under the ASR, the Corporation prepaid $500 million and received from the dealer counterparty an initial delivery of 7,055,919 shares of common stock on February 3, 2020. As part of the final settlement of the ASR, the Corporation received an additional 4,763,216 shares of common stock after the early termination date. In total, the Corporation repurchased 11,819,135 shares at an average price per share of $42.3043 under the ASR. The Corporation accounted for the ASR as a treasury stock transaction. This transaction increased by $2.20 the Corporation’s tangible book value per share. Redemption of Series B Preferred Stock On February 24, 2020, the Corporation redeemed all outstanding shares of its 8.25% Non-Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Stock, Series B (“Series B Preferred Stock”). The Series B Preferred Stock was redeemed at the redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus $0.1375 in accrued and unpaid dividends on each share, for a total payment per share in the amount of $25.1375 and a total aggregate payment of $28.2 million. Increase in Common Stock Dividends On January 9, 2020, the Corporation announced an increase in its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.30 to $0.40 per share, payable commencing in the second quarter of 2020, subject to the approval of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. The quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per share has been paid on April 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, October 1, 2020 and January 4, 2021 to shareholders of record. On February 26, 2021, the Corporation’s Board of Directors approved a $0.40 quarterly cash dividendper share to be paid on April 1, 2021 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 18, 2021. Loan Repurchase Transaction During the quarter ended September 30, 2020, the Corporation completed bulk loan repurchases from its Ginnie Mae (“GNMA’’), Fannie Mae (“FNMA’’) and Freddie Mac (‘’FHMLC’’) (combined ‘’GSEs’’) loan servicing portfolios with an aggregate balance of $807.6 million. At September 30, 2020, loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $106 million, corresponding to the portfolio acquired from FNMA and FHMLC, had been modified under the Corporation’s COVID-19 relief or other loss mitigation programs. The following table presents a summary of the impact of the transactions, excluding the effects on operations subsequent to the acquisition. The transactions were executed to limit future exposures to principal and interest advances as well as sundry losses and to deploy liquidity to increase interest income. Popular Bank’s New York Branches Realignment On October 27, 2020, Popular Bank (“PB”), the United States mainland banking subsidiary of the Corporation, authorized and approved a strategic realignment of its New York Metro branch network that resulted in eleven (11) branch closures and related staffing reductions. The branch closures were completed on January 29, 2021. This strategic realignment, which will allow PB to reduce its operating expenses, leverage resources to enhance its focus on small and medium size businesses, as well as support changing customer behaviors, was approved after an assessment of PB’s current branch network, including its usage, proximity to its other branches and customer needs. PB will maintain in its New York Metro region its largest regional retail network in the mainland US, with twenty-seven (27) branches located throughout Brooklyn, Bronx, Manhattan and Queens, as well as in northern New Jersey. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Corporation recorded a total pre-tax charge of approximately $23.2 million related to the branch realignment. This aggregate pre-tax charge included approximately $2.1 million associated with severance and related benefit costs for the 83 impacted employees and charges of approximately $21.1 million related to the abandonment of real property leases, including the impairment of right-of-use assets. The Corporation expects to incur an additional $2.0 million in expenses during 2021 related to this initiative and anticipates annual operating expense savings of approximately $12.3 million as a result of this strategic realignment. Refer to Table 2 for selected financial data for the past five years.Non-GAAP financial measures Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis Net interest income, on a taxable equivalent basis, is presented with its different components on Table 4 for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019, segregated by major categories of interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The interest earning assets include investment securities and loans that are exempt from income tax, principally in Puerto Rico. The main sources of tax-exempt interest income are certain investments in obligations of the U.S. Government, its agencies and sponsored entities, and certain obligations of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its agencies and assets held by the Corporation’s international banking entities. To facilitate the comparison of all interest related to these assets, the interest income has been converted to a taxable equivalent basis, using the applicable statutory income tax rates for each period. The taxable equivalent computation considers the interest expense and other related expense disallowances required by the Puerto Rico tax law. Under Puerto Rico tax law, the exempt interest can be deducted up to the amount of taxable income. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes that this presentation provides meaningful information since it facilitates the comparison of revenues arising from taxable and exempt sources. Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Corporation may not be comparable to similarly named Non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2020 The Corporation’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2020 amounted to $506.6 million, compared to a net income of $671.1 million for 2019. The 24% year-over-year decrease was largely driven by a higher provision expense, lower fees and lower net interest income related to the economic disruption caused by the pandemic. The discussion that follows provides highlights of the Corporation’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the results of operations of 2019. It also provides some highlights with respect to the Corporation’s financial condition, credit quality, capital and liquidity. Table 2 presents a five-year summary of the components of net income (loss) as a percentage of average total assets. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $1.9 billion, a decrease of $35.1 million when compared to 2019. The decrease in net interest income was mainly driven by lower interest income from money market investments and loans (mostly commercial and consumer loans), partially offset by lower interest expense on deposits, despite the higher volume. The net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 3.29% compared to 4.03% for the same period in 2019 and was impacted by declines in market rates as well as the change in the earning assets composition. On a taxable equivalent basis, net interest margin was 3.62% in 2020, compared to 4.43% in 2019. Refer to the Net Interest Income section of this MD&A for additional information. The Corporation’s total provision for credit losses amounted to $292.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared with $165.8 million for 2019. The increase in the provision for credit losses is due to the adoption of the new CECL accounting standard effective January 1, 2020, and deterioration in the economic outlook resulting from the impact of COVID-19. Non-performing assets totaled $824 million at December 31, 2020, reflecting an increase of $174 million when compared to December 31, 2019. As part of the adoption of CECL, the Corporation made the election to break the existing pools of PCI loans and measure them on an individual loan level. Refer to the Provision for Credit Losses and Credit Risk sections of this MD&A for information on the allowance for credit losses, non-performing assets, troubled debt restructurings, net charge-offs and credit quality metrics. Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2020 amounted to $512.3 million, a decrease of $57.6 million, when compared with 2019, mostly due to lower service fees and service charges on deposit accounts due to economic disruptions related to the pandemic, and the waiver of service charges and late fees. Refer to the Non-Interest Income section of this MD&A for additional information on the major variances of the different categories of non-interest income. Total operating expenses amounted to $1.5 billion for the year 2020, a decrease of $19.7 million, when compared to the same period in 2019 as the Corporation took certain cost saving measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on its results of operations. Refer to the Operating Expenses section of this MD&A for additional information. Income tax expense amounted to $111.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared with an income tax expense of $147.2 million for the previous year. The decrease in income tax expense for the year is mainly due to a lower pre-tax income. Refer to the Income Taxes section in this MD&A and Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on income taxes. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation’s total assets were $65.9 billion, compared with $52.1 billion at December 31, 2019. The increase of $13.8 billion is mainly driven higher investments in debt securities available-for-sale, as the Corporation deployed the liquidity provided by the increase in deposit balances; and the increase in loans held-in-portfolio mainly driven by loans funded under the Small Business Administration (“SBA”) Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), in addition to the bulk mortgage loan repurchases from the Corporation’s GSEs loan servicing portfolios. Refer to the Statement of Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for additional information. Deposits amounted to $56.9 billion at December 31, 2020, compared with $43.8 billion at December 31, 2019. Table 8 presents a breakdown of deposits by major categories. The increase in deposits was mainly due to higher Puerto Rico public sector deposits and higher balances in retail and commercial demand and savings deposits accounts. The Corporation’s borrowings remained flat at $1.3 billion at December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on the Corporation’s borrowings. Refer to Table 7 in the Statement of Financial Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for the percentage allocation of the composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets. Stockholders’ equity remained flat at $6.0 billion at December 31, 2020, compared with December 31, 2019. The net activity for the year was mainly due to net income of $506.6 million for the year 2020, unrealized gains on debt securities available-for-sale offset by capital transactions including an accelerated share repurchase and the redemption of 2008 Series B preferred stock completed during 2020. The Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to be wellcapitalized at December 31, 2020. The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at December 31, 2020 was 16.26%, compared to 17.76% at December 31, 2019. For further discussion of operating results, financial condition and business risks refer to the narrative and tables included herein. The shares of the Corporation’s common stock are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol BPOP.