Company Information 

General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a financial 
services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, serving millions of local, national and global 
customers. U.S. Bancorp is registered as a bank holding 
company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the 
“BHC Act”), and has elected to be treated as a financial 
holding company under the BHC Act. The Company 
provides a full range of financial services, including lending 
and depository services, cash management, capital 
markets, and trust and investment management services. It 
also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM 
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and 
leasing. 

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiary, USBNA, is engaged 

in the general banking business, principally in domestic 
markets, and holds all of the Company's consolidated 
deposits of $512.3 billion at December 31, 2023. USBNA 
provides a wide range of products and services to 
individuals, businesses, institutional organizations, 
governmental entities and other financial institutions. 
Commercial and consumer lending services are principally 
offered to customers within the Company’s domestic 
markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations and 
to large national customers operating in specific industries 
targeted by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil 
and gas, and state and municipal government. Lending 
services include traditional credit products as well as credit 
card services, lease financing and import/export trade, 
asset-backed lending, agricultural finance and other 
products. Depository services include checking accounts, 
savings accounts and time certificate contracts. Ancillary 
services such as capital markets, treasury management and 
receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate and 
governmental entity customers. U.S. Bancorp’s bank and 
trust subsidiaries provide a full range of asset management 
and fiduciary services for individuals, estates, foundations, 
business corporations and charitable organizations. 

Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer 
investment and insurance products to the Company’s 
customers principally within its domestic markets, and fund 
administration services to a broad range of mutual and other 
funds. 

Banking and investment services are provided through a 

network of 2,274 banking offices across 26 states as of 
December 31, 2023, principally operating in the Midwest 
and West regions of the United States. A significant 
percentage of consumer transactions are completed using 
USBNA's digital banking services, both online and through 
its digital app. The Company operates a network of 4,524 
ATMs as of December 31, 2023, and provides 24-hour, 
seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage 
banking services are provided through banking offices and 
loan production offices throughout the Company’s domestic 
markets. Lending products may be originated through 
banking offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other 
lending sources. The Company is also one of the largest 
providers of corporate and purchasing card services and 
corporate trust services in the United States. The 

140  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. 
(“Elavon”), provides domestic merchant processing services 
directly to merchants. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Elavon 
provide similar merchant services in Canada and segments 
of Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and 
fund administration services in Europe. These foreign 
operations are not significant to the Company. 

As of December 31, 2023, U.S. Bancorp employed more 

than 75,000 people. 

Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, including the 
possibility that the value of the investment could fall 
substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are 
material risk factors that make an investment in the 
Company speculative or risky. 

Economic and Market Conditions Risk 

Deterioration in business and economic conditions 
could adversely affect the Company’s lending business 
and the value of loans and debt securities it holds The 
Company’s business activities and earnings are affected by 
general business conditions in the United States and 
abroad, including factors such as the level and volatility of 
short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home 
prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, 
bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, 
fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity 
of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of 
capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the 
financial markets, the strength of the domestic and global 
economies in which the Company operates, and customer 
deposit behavior. These conditions can change suddenly 
and negatively.  For example, changes in these conditions 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected the 
Company’s consumer and commercial businesses and 
securities portfolios, its level of charge-offs and provision for 
credit losses, and its results of operations from the start of 
the pandemic in early 2020 through 2022, and changes in 
these conditions caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine 
impacted the Company’s results of operations in 2022 and 
2023. Inflation continued to impact the Company’s financial 
condition in 2023, as the COVID-19 era fiscal and monetary 
stimulus as well as geopolitical pressures continued to drive 
inflationary pressure. Further, recent bank failures prompted 
by sudden and significant withdrawals of deposits at the 
failing banks resulted in significant volatility in the stock 
prices of certain financial services institutions. In addition, 
volatility due to failures of other banks or general uncertainty 
regarding the health of banks may affect customer deposit 
behavior and cause deposit withdrawals. Other future 
changes in these conditions, whether related to a pandemic, 
the war in Ukraine, conflict in the Middle East, the threat or 
occurrence of a U.S. sovereign default or government 
shutdown, disruptions in the financial services industry or 
otherwise, could have additional adverse effects on the 
Company and its businesses. 

Given the high percentage of the Company’s assets 

represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the 

importance of lending to its overall business, weak 
economic conditions have in the past negatively affected, 
and may continue to negatively affect, the Company’s 
business and results of operations, including new loan 
origination activity, existing loan utilization rates and 
delinquencies, defaults and the ability of customers to meet 
obligations under the loans. In addition, future deterioration 
in economic conditions could have adverse effects on loan 
origination activity, loan utilization rates and delinquencies, 
defaults and the ability of customers to meet loan 
obligations. The value to the Company of other assets such 
as investment securities, most of which are debt securities 
or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly 
have been, and would be, negatively impacted by 
widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a 
weakening of the economy. 

In addition, volatility and uncertainty related to inflation or 

a possible recession and their effects, which could 
potentially continue to contribute to poor economic 
conditions, may contribute to or enhance some of the risks 
described herein. For example, higher inflation, slower 
growth or a recession could reduce demand for the 
Company’s products, adversely affect the creditworthiness 
of its borrowers or result in lower values for its interest-
earning assets and investment securities. In 2023, demand 
for borrowing from both corporate and consumer customers, 
specifically for residential mortgage and auto loans, slowed 
as borrowing costs rose due to increased interest rates.  
Any of these effects, or others that the Company is not able 
to predict, could adversely affect its financial condition or 
results of operations. 

Any deterioration in global economic conditions could 

damage the domestic economy or negatively affect the 
Company’s borrowers or other counterparties that have 
direct or indirect exposure to these regions. Such global 
disruptions, including disruptions in supply chains or 
geopolitical risk, can undermine investor confidence, cause 
a contraction of available credit, or create market volatility, 
any of which could have material adverse effects on the 
Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial 
condition and liquidity, even if the Company’s direct 
exposure to the affected region is limited. Global political 
trends toward nationalism and isolationism could increase 
the probability of a deterioration in global economic 
conditions. 

Changes in interest rates have in the past reduced, and 
could in the future reduce, the Company’s net interest 
income The Company’s earnings are dependent to a large 
degree on net interest income, which is the difference 
between interest income from loans and investments and 
interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest 
income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, 
which in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, 
by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal 
government and by the policies of various regulatory 
agencies. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the 
flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct 
investments. Direct investments, such as United States 
government and corporate securities and other investment 
vehicles (including mutual funds), generally pay higher rates 
of return than financial institutions because of the absence 

of federal insurance premiums. This may cause USBNA to 
lose some of its low-cost deposit funding. Customers may 
also continue to move noninterest-bearing deposits into 
interest-bearing accounts, thus increasing overall deposit 
costs. Higher funding costs may reduce the Company’s net 
interest margin and net interest income. A prolonged period 
of high or increasing interest rates may cause the Company 
to experience an acceleration of deposit migration, which 
could adversely affect the Company’s operations and 
liquidity. This risk is exacerbated by technological 
developments and trends in customer behavior, including 
the ease and speed with which deposits may be transferred 
electronically, particularly by a growing number of 
customers who maintain accounts with multiple banks.

United States interest rates fell dramatically during the 
first quarter of 2020 and remained low through 2021, which 
adversely affected the Company’s net interest income. The 
Federal Reserve Board raised benchmark interest rates 
throughout 2022 and 2023, and may continue to raise 
interest rates in response to economic conditions, 
particularly inflationary pressures, or may lower interest 
rates in future periods. 

When interest rates are increasing, the Company can 
generally be expected to earn higher net interest income, 
and conversely, decreasing interest rates can adversely 
impact the Company's net interest income. However, higher 
interest rates can also lead to fewer originations of loans, 
less liquidity in the financial markets, and higher funding 
costs, each of which could adversely affect the Company’s 
revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. In 2022 and 
2023, as a result of the high interest rate environment, the 
Company earned higher net interest income but 
experienced fewer originations of mortgage loans and 
higher funding costs, and the Company expects these 
effects to continue in the future if interest rates remain 
elevated or increase further. Higher interest rates can also 
negatively affect the payment performance on loans that are 
linked to variable interest rates. If borrowers of variable rate 
loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those 
borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby 
causing the Company to incur losses and increased 
operational costs related to servicing a higher volume of 
delinquent loans. 

The Company’s results may be materially affected by 
market fluctuations and significant changes in the value 
of financial instruments The value of securities, 
derivatives and other financial instruments which the 
Company owns or in which it makes markets can be 
materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, 
illiquid market conditions and other disruptions in the 
financial markets may make it extremely difficult to value 
certain financial instruments. Subsequent valuations of 
financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors then 
prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of 
these instruments. In addition, at the time of any disposition 
of these financial instruments, the price that the Company 
ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity 
in the market at that time and may be materially lower than 
their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a 
decline in the value of financial instruments that the 
Company owns or in which it makes markets, which may 

141

have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of 
operations. In addition, losses in the value of the Company’s 
investment securities or loan portfolio could affect market 
perception of the Company and create volatility in the 
Company’s stock price. Losses in the value of the 
Company’s investment securities, even if they do not affect 
earnings or capital, could also cause some depositors, 
particularly those who maintain uninsured and 
uncollateralized deposits, to question the stability of USBNA 
and to move their deposits away from USBNA. Such events 
could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity, financial 
condition and results of operations.

The Company’s risk management and monitoring 
processes, including its stress testing framework, seek to 
quantify and control the Company’s exposure to more 
extreme market moves. However, the Company’s hedging 
and other risk management strategies may not be effective, 
and it could incur significant losses in the event of 
unexpected or unmitigated market volatility.  

Operations and Business Risk 
A breach in the security of the Company’s information 
systems, or the information systems of certain third 
parties, could disrupt the Company’s businesses, result 
in the disclosure of confidential information, damage its 
reputation and create significant financial and legal 
exposure The Company continues to experience an 
increasing number of attempted attacks on its information 
systems, software, networks and other technologies. 
Although the Company devotes significant resources to 
maintain, improve, and regularly upgrade its systems and 
processes that are designed to protect the security of the 
Company’s computer systems, software, networks, 
technologies and intellectual property, and to protect the 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of information 
belonging to the Company, its employees, and its 
customers, the Company’s security measures may not be 
effective against new threats. Malicious actors continue to 
develop increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks that could 
impact the Company. Many financial institutions, retailers 
and other companies engaged in data processing, including 
software and information technology service providers, have 
reported cyber attacks, some of which involved 
sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain 
unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy 
data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, 
often through the introduction of software that is intentionally 
included or inserted in an information system for a harmful 
purpose (malware). 

Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the 

overall functioning of the financial system could also 
adversely affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of the 
Company’s businesses. The increasing consolidation, 
interdependence and complexity of financial entities and 
technology systems increases the risk of operational failure, 
both for the Company and on an industry-wide basis, and 
means that a technology failure, cyber attack, or other 
information or security breach that significantly degrades, 
deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or more 
financial entities could materially affect the Company, 
counterparties or other market participants. 

142  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

Third parties that facilitate the Company’s business 
activities, including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment 
and ATM networks, financial intermediaries and vendors 
that provide services or technology solutions for the 
Company’s operations, are also sources of operational and 
security risks to the Company due to operational or 
technical failures of their systems, misconduct or negligence 
by their employees or cyber attacks that could affect their 
ability to deliver a product or service to the Company, 
resulting in lost or compromised Company or customer 
information. Furthermore, a third party may not reveal an 
attack or system failure to the Company in a timely manner, 
which could compromise the Company’s ability to respond 
effectively. Some of these third parties may engage vendors 
of their own, which introduces the risk that the third party’s 
vendors and subcontractors could be the source of 
operational and security failures. In addition, if a third party 
obtains access to the customer account data on the 
Company’s systems, and that party experiences a breach 
via an external or internal threat or misappropriates such 
data, the Company and its customers could suffer material 
harm, including heightened risk of fraudulent transactions, 
losses from fraudulent transactions, increased operational 
costs to remediate any security breach and reputational 
harm. These risks are expected to continue to increase as 
the Company expands its interconnectivity with its 
customers and other third parties. 

Within the past several years, multiple companies have 
disclosed significant cybersecurity breaches affecting debit 
and credit card accounts of their customers, some of whom 
were the Company’s cardholders and who may experience 
fraud on their card accounts because of the breach. The 
Company has suffered, and will in the future suffer, losses 
associated with reimbursing its customers for such 
fraudulent transactions and for other costs related to data 
security compromise events, such as replacing cards 
associated with compromised card accounts. These attacks 
involving Company cards are likely to continue and could, 
individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse 
effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of 
operations. 

The Company may not be able to anticipate or to 
implement effective preventive measures against all 
cyberattacks because malicious actor methods and 
techniques change frequently, increase in sophistication, 
often are not recognized until launched, sometimes go 
undetected even when successful, and originate from a 
wide variety of sources, including organized crime, hackers, 
terrorists, activists, hostile foreign governments and other 
external parties. Those parties may also attempt to 
fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of 
the Company’s systems to disclose sensitive information to 
gain access to the Company’s data or that of its customers 
or clients, such as through “phishing” and other social 
engineering schemes. For example, recent advances in 
artificial intelligence may allow a bad actor to create so-
called “deep fakes” to impersonate the voice or likeness of 
another individual, which could be used in social 
engineering schemes that may be more difficult to detect 
than other social engineering efforts. Other types of attacks 
may include the introduction of computer viruses and/or 

malicious or destructive code, denial-of-service attacks 
(DDoS), and cyber extortion with accompanying ransom 
demands. The Company’s information security risks may 
increase in the future as the Company continues to increase 
its mobile and internet-based product offerings and expands 
its internal usage of web-based products and applications. 
In addition, the Company’s customers often use their own 
devices, such as computers, smart phones and tablet 
computers, to make payments and manage their accounts, 
and are subject to “phishing,” scam websites, and other 
attempts from cyber criminals to compromise or deny 
access to their accounts. The Company has limited ability to 
assure the safety and security of its customers’ transactions 
with the Company to the extent they are using their own 
devices, which have been, and likely will continue to be, 
subject to such threats. 

If the Company’s physical or cybersecurity systems are 

penetrated or circumvented, or an authorized user 
intentionally or unintentionally removes, loses or destroys 
critical business data, serious negative consequences for 
the Company can follow, including significant disruption of 
the Company’s operations, misappropriation of confidential 
Company and/or customer information, or damage to the 
Company’s, customers’ or counterparties’ computers or 
systems. These consequences could result in violations of 
applicable privacy and other laws; financial loss to the 
Company or to its customers; loss of confidence in the 
Company’s security measures; customer dissatisfaction; 
significant litigation exposure; regulatory investigations, 
fines, penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other 
compensatory costs (including the costs of credit monitoring 
services); additional compliance costs; and harm to the 
Company’s reputation, all of which could adversely affect 
the Company. 

Because the investigation of any information security 

breach is inherently unpredictable and would require 
substantial time to complete, the Company may not be able 
to quickly remediate the consequences of any breach, which 
may increase the costs of, and enhance the negative 
consequences associated with, a breach. In addition, to the 
extent the Company’s insurance covers aspects of any 
breach, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all the 
Company’s losses. 

The Company relies on its employees, systems and 
third parties to conduct its business, and certain 
failures by systems or misconduct by employees or 
third parties could adversely affect its operations The 
Company operates in many different businesses in diverse 
markets and relies on the ability of its employees and 
systems to process a high number of transactions. The 
Company’s business, financial, accounting, data processing, 
and other operating systems and facilities may stop 
operating properly or become disabled or damaged due to a 
number of factors, including events that are out of its 
control. In addition to the risks posed by information security 
breaches, as discussed above, such systems could be 
compromised because of spikes in transaction volume, 
electrical or telecommunications outages, degradation or 
loss of internet or website availability, natural disasters, 
political or social unrest, and terrorist acts. The Company’s 
business operations may be adversely affected by 

significant disruption to the operating systems that support 
its businesses and customers. The Company’s backup 
systems could become compromised, which could 
negatively impact the ability to back up data.

The Company could also incur losses resulting from the 

risk of human error by employees, misconduct or fraud by 
employees or persons outside the Company, unauthorized 
access to its computer systems, the execution of 
unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to 
transaction processing and technology, breaches of the 
internal control system and compliance requirements, and 
failures of business continuation and disaster recovery 
processes and systems. This risk of loss also includes 
customer remediation costs, potential legal actions, fines or 
civil money penalties that could arise resulting from an 
operational deficiency or noncompliance with applicable 
regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their 
implementation, and customer attrition due to potential 
negative publicity. 

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s 
business infrastructure, such as internet connections, cloud 
services, network access and mutual fund distribution.  Any 
problems caused by third-party service providers, including 
failing to comply with their contractual obligations or 
performing their services negligently, could adversely affect 
the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to the 
Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct its 
business. Replacing third-party service providers could also 
entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of 
third-party service providers to handle current or higher 
volumes of use could adversely affect the Company’s ability 
to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to 
conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a 
third-party service provider could adversely affect the 
Company’s businesses to the extent those difficulties result 
in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by 
that party. 

Operational risks for large financial institutions such as 
the Company have generally increased in recent years, in 
part because of the proliferation of new technologies, 
implementation of work-from-home and hybrid work 
arrangements, the use of internet services and 
telecommunications technologies to conduct financial 
transactions, the increased number and complexity of 
transactions being processed, and the increased 
sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, 
terrorists, activists, and other external parties. In the event 
of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper 
operation of systems or improper employee or third-party 
actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face legal 
or regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. 

The Company could face material legal and reputational 
harm if it fails to safeguard personal information The 
Company is subject to complex and evolving laws and 
regulations, both inside and outside the United States, 
governing the privacy and protection of personal 
information. Individuals whose personal information may be 
protected by law can include the Company’s customers and 
their customers, prospective customers, job applicants, 
current and former employees, employees of the 
Company’s suppliers, and other individuals. Complying with 

143

laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s collection, 
use, transfer and storage of personal information can 
increase operating costs, impact the development and 
marketing of new products or services, and reduce 
operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse of 
personal information by the Company or its suppliers could 
expose the Company to litigation or regulatory fines, 
penalties or other sanctions. For example, a state attorney 
general recently announced an action against a bank for 
alleged failure to protect consumer accounts from fraud.
In the United States, several states have enacted 

consumer privacy laws that impose compliance obligations 
with respect to personal information. In particular, the 
California Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), as amended 
by the California Privacy Rights Act, and its implementing 
regulations impose significant requirements on covered 
businesses with respect to consumer data privacy rights. 
Compliance with the CCPA and other state statutes, 
common law, or regulations designed to protect personal 
information could potentially require substantive technology 
infrastructure and process changes across many of the 
Company’s businesses. Non-compliance with the CCPA or 
similar laws and regulations could lead to substantial 
regulatory fines and penalties, damages from private causes 
of action, compelled changes to the Company’s business 
practices, and/or reputational harm. The Company cannot 
predict whether any pending or future state or federal 
legislation will be adopted, or the impact of any such 
adopted legislation on the Company. Future legislation 
could result in substantial costs to the Company and could 
have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition, 
and results of operations.

In addition, legal requirements for cross-border personal 

data transfers are constantly changing, including the 
revisions made by the European Economic Area (“EEA”) 
that require the use of revised Standard Contractual 
Clauses (“SCCs”) for international data transfers from the 
EEA. The SCCs are required to be used for new 
agreements involving the cross-border transfer of personal 
data from the EEA and must be supplemented by an 
assessment and due diligence of the legal and regulatory 
landscape of the jurisdiction of the data importer, the 
channels used to transmit personal data and any sub-
processors that may receive personal data. The United 
Kingdom has developed its own set of SCCs that must be 
used for transfers of personal data from the United Kingdom 
to the United States. In July 2023, the European 
Commission announced a final adequacy decision for the 
EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework, a cross-border data 
transfer mechanism that replaced the EU-U.S. Privacy 
Shield that was invalidated in 2020. Compliance with this 
changing landscape of privacy requirements could 
potentially compel the Company to make significant 
technological and operational changes, any of which could 
result in substantial costs to the Company, and failure to 
comply with applicable data transfer or privacy requirements 
could subject the Company to fines or regulatory 
investigation or oversight. 

Additional risks could arise from the failure of the 

Company or third parties to provide adequate notice to the 
Company’s customers about the personal information 

144  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

collected from them and the use of such information; to 
receive, document, and honor the privacy preferences 
expressed by the Company’s customers; to protect personal 
information from unauthorized disclosure; or to maintain 
proper training on privacy practices for all employees or 
third parties who have access to personal information. 
Concerns regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s 
measures to safeguard personal information and abide by 
privacy preferences, or even the perception that those 
measures are inadequate or that the Company does not 
abide by such privacy preferences, could cause the 
Company to lose existing or potential customers and 
thereby reduce its revenues. In addition, any failure or 
perceived failure by the Company to comply with applicable 
privacy or data protection laws and regulations could result 
in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or 
practices, and/or in material liabilities or regulatory fines, 
penalties, or other sanctions. Refer to “Supervision and 
Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for additional information regarding data privacy laws and 
regulations. Any of these outcomes could materially damage 
the Company’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its 
business. 

The Company could lose market share and experience 
increased costs if it does not effectively develop and 
implement new technology The financial services industry 
is continually undergoing rapid technological change with 
frequent introductions of new technology-driven products 
and services, including innovative ways that customers can 
make payments or manage their accounts, such as through 
the use of mobile payments, digital wallets or digital 
currencies. The Company believes its success depends, in 
part, upon its ability to address customer needs by using 
technology to provide products and services and create 
additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. When 
launching a new product or service or introducing a new 
platform for the delivery of products and services, the 
Company might not identify or fully appreciate new 
operational risks arising from those innovations or might 
inadvertently fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate 
those risks. Developing and deploying new technology-
driven products and services can also involve costs that the 
Company may not recover and divert resources away from 
other product development efforts. The Company may not 
be able to effectively develop and implement profitable new 
technology-driven products and services or be successful in 
marketing these products and services to its customers. 
Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change 
affecting the financial services industry, including because 
larger competitors may have more resources to spend on 
developing new technologies or because non-bank 
competitors have a lower cost structure and more flexibility, 
could harm the Company’s competitive position and 
negatively affect its revenue and profit. 

The use of new technologies, including artificial 
intelligence (“AI”) and machine learning, may result in 
reputational harm, increased regulatory scrutiny and 
increased liability The banking industry is subject to rapid 
and significant technological change. To compete 
effectively, the Company may use new and evolving 

technologies, including AI and machine learning, to help 
improve its customer service and products and to automate 
certain business decisions or risk management practices. 
The Company's use of AI and machine learning is subject to 
risks that algorithms and datasets are flawed or may be 
insufficient or contain biased information. In addition, the 
models and processes relating to AI and machine learning 
are not always transparent, which could increase the risk of 
unintended deficiencies. These deficiencies could result in 
inaccurate or ineffective decisions, predictions or analysis, 
which could subject the Company to competitive harm, legal 
liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, reputational harm or 
other consequences that the Company may not be able to 
predict, any of which could negatively affect the Company's 
financial condition and results of operations.

The Company may not realize the full value of its 
strategic plans and initiatives As the Company develops 
its strategic initiatives, it scans the internal and external 
environment to inform any changes required, take 
advantage of new opportunities and/or respond to 
unexpected challenges. Initiatives include focusing on 
customer growth with tailored products and experiences that 
meet customer needs; executing disciplined strategies to 
grow and maintain sufficient capital levels as part of 
preserving the Company’s financial excellence and risk 
appetite; acquiring and integrating financial services 
businesses or assets; cultivating a future-focused and 
diverse talent strategy; and increasing access to banking 
services and economic empowerment. The Company’s 
initiatives are impacted by internal factors, rapid pace of 
change from an evolving competitive landscape, increased 
cybersecurity threats, accelerated digitalization, and 
emerging technologies. In addition, execution is impacted by 
the Company’s response to external economic conditions, 
global uncertainty, and regulatory factors that are beyond its 
control. The Company’s future growth and the value of its 
stock will depend, in part, on its ability to effectively 
implement its business strategy. If the Company is not able 
to successfully execute its business strategy, then the 
Company’s competitive position, reputation, prospects for 
growth, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 

Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely 
impact its business and financial results Reputation risk, 
or the risk to the Company’s business, earnings and capital 
from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s 
business. Negative public opinion about the financial 
services industry generally or the Company specifically 
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain and 
attract stakeholders such as customers, investors, and 
employees and could expose the Company to litigation and 
regulatory action. Negative public opinion can result from 
the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of 
activities, including lending practices, cybersecurity 
breaches, failures to safeguard personal information, 
inability to meet community and other stakeholder 
commitments, discriminating or harassing behavior of 
employees toward other employees or customers, mortgage 
servicing and foreclosure practices, compensation practices, 
sales practices, regulatory compliance, mergers and 
acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators 

and community organizations in response to that conduct. 
Additionally, the Company’s stakeholders often hold 
differing views on how the Company should address 
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) goals as it 
relates to serving customers, including certain “anti-ESG” 
sentiment among some individuals and government 
institutions. The Company’s approach to ESG and 
customers may result in negative attention in traditional and 
social media, resulting in a negative perception of the 
Company depending on an individual’s view. In addition, 
failure to deliver against established ESG goals and 
objectives could present reputational and financial harm to 
the Company. The Company may also be targeted by 
groups or influential individuals who disagree with its public 
positions on social or environmental issues, which could 
result in reduced revenue or reputational harm. If the 
Company is unable to design or execute against business 
strategies that balance conflicting views on how it supports 
ESG initiatives, while continuing to support customers from 
differing industries, reputational damage could result, 
leading to a loss of customers or negative investor 
sentiment. As a large diversified financial services company 
with a high industry profile, the Company is inherently 
exposed to this risk.

In addition, environmental matters have been the subject 
of increased focus by regulators, particularly with respect to 
the accuracy of statements made by issuers regarding their 
ESG practices, initiatives and investment strategies. The 
SEC has established an enforcement task force to examine 
ESG practices and disclosures by public companies and 
identify inaccurate or misleading statements, often referred 
to as “greenwashing.” There have been enforcement actions 
relating to ESG disclosures and policies and procedures 
failures, and the Company expects that there will be a 
greater level of enforcement activity in the future. A 
perception or accusation of greenwashing could damage the 
Company’s reputation, result in litigation or enforcement 
actions, or adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise 
capital and attract and retain customers. 

The Company’s business and financial performance 
could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by 
natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil 
unrest or international hostilities Neither the occurrence 
nor the potential impact of natural disasters, pandemics, 
terrorist activities, civil unrest or international hostilities can 
be predicted. However, these occurrences could impact the 
Company directly (for example, by interrupting the 
Company’s systems, which could prevent the Company 
from obtaining deposits, originating loans and processing 
and controlling its flow of business; causing significant 
damage to the Company’s facilities; or otherwise preventing 
the Company from conducting business in the ordinary 
course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the 
Company’s borrowers, depositors, other customers, vendors 
or other counterparties (for example, by damaging 
properties pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans or 
impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their 
loans). The Company has also suffered, and could in the 
future suffer, adverse consequences to the extent that 
natural disasters, pandemics, including the COVID-19 
pandemic, terrorist activities, civil unrest or international 

145

hostilities, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and 
conflict in the Middle East, affect the financial markets or the 
economy in general or in any particular region. 

For example, the COVID-19 pandemic created economic 

and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and 
may in the future adversely affect, the Company’s business, 
financial condition, capital and results of operations. During 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company experienced 
significant disruptions to its normal operations, including the 
temporary closing of branches and a sudden increase in the 
volume of work-from-home arrangements. In addition, the 
Company has been indirectly negatively affected by the 
pandemic’s effects on the Company’s borrowers and other 
customers, and by its effects on global financial markets. 
The COVID-19 pandemic caused, and other future natural 
disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities, may cause, an increase in 
delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in 
the Company experiencing higher levels of nonperforming 
assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. 

Depending on the lingering impact of the pandemic and 

the impact of current international hostilities on general 
economic and market conditions, there is a risk that adverse 
conditions could occur or worsen, including supply chain 
disruptions; higher inflation; a possible recession; decreased 
demand for the Company’s products and services or those 
of its borrowers, which could increase credit risk; challenges 
related to maintaining sufficient qualified personnel due to 
labor shortages, talent attrition, employee illness, or 
willingness to return to work; increased risk of cyber attacks; 
increased volatility in commodity, currency and other 
financial markets; and disruptions to business operations at 
the Company and at counterparties, vendors and other 
service providers. 

The United States has in recent years faced periods of 

significant civil unrest. Although civil unrest has not 
materially affected the Company’s businesses to date, 
similar events could, directly or indirectly, have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s operations (for example, 
by causing shutdowns of branches or working locations of 
vendors or other counterparties or damaging property 
pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans). 

The Company’s ability to mitigate the adverse 

consequences of these occurrences is in part dependent on 
the quality of the Company’s resiliency planning, and the 
Company’s ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any 
such event that occurs. The adverse effects of natural 
disasters, pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities also could be increased to the extent 
that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or 
regional emergency responders or on the part of other 
organizations and businesses that the Company transacts 
with, particularly those that it depends upon, but has no 
control over. Additionally, both the frequency and severity of 
some kinds of natural disasters, including wildfires, flooding, 
tornadoes and hurricanes, have increased, and the 
Company expects will continue to increase, as a result of 
climate change. 

146  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

The Company’s business strategy, operations, financial 
performance and customers could be materially 
adversely affected by the impacts related to climate 
change There is an increasing concern over the risks of 
climate change and the impact that climate change may 
have on the Company and its customers and communities. 
The physical risks of climate change include increasing 
average global temperatures, rising sea levels and an 
increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather 
events and natural disasters, including wildfires, floods, 
tornadoes and hurricanes. Climate shifts and the increasing 
frequency and severity of natural disasters reduce the 
Company’s ability to predict accurately the effects of natural 
disasters. Such disasters and chronic shifts caused by 
climate change, such as rising sea levels, could disrupt the 
Company’s operations or the operations of customers or 
third parties on which the Company relies, particularly with 
respect to customers located in low-lying areas and 
coastlines that are more prone to flooding or other areas 
that are prone to wildfires and other disasters. Such 
disasters could also result in market volatility, negatively 
impact customers’ ability to pay outstanding loans and fulfill 
other contractual obligations, reduce future relationship 
opportunities with clients, damage collateral or result in the 
deterioration of the value of collateral. Such disasters may 
also result in reduced availability or increased costs of 
insurance, including insurance that protects property 
pledged as collateral for Company loans, which could 
negatively affect the Company’s ability to predict credit 
losses accurately. 

Additionally, climate change concerns could result in 
transition risk. Transition risks could include changes in 
consumer preferences, new technologies, and additional 
legislation and regulatory requirements, including those 
associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
New regulations or laws could result in significant costs as 
the Company implements compliance, disclosure and other 
programs. Failure to comply with any new laws or 
regulations could result in legal or regulatory sanctions and 
harm to the Company’s reputation. The transition to a low-
carbon economy could also negatively affect the business of 
customers in carbon-intensive industries and reduce their 
creditworthiness.

These physical risks and transition risks could increase 

expenses or otherwise adversely impact the Company’s 
business strategy, operations, financial performance and 
customers. In particular, new regulations or guidance, or the 
attitudes of regulators, shareholders and employees 
regarding climate change, may affect the activities in which 
the Company engages and the products that the Company 
offers. An inability to adjust the Company’s business to 
mitigate the effects of physical and transition risks could 
result in higher operational and credit losses. In addition, an 
increasing perspective that financial institutions, including 
the Company, play an important role in managing risks 
related to climate change, including indirectly with respect to 
their customers, may result in increased pressure on the 
Company to take additional steps to disclose and manage 
its climate risks and related lending and other activities, and 
the Company could suffer reputational harm related to the 
environmental impacts of industries in which certain of the 

Company’s customers do business. The Company could 
also experience increased expenses resulting from strategic 
planning, litigation and technology and market changes, and 
reputational harm as a result of negative public sentiment, 
regulatory scrutiny and reduced investor and stakeholder 
confidence due to the Company’s response to climate 
change and the Company’s climate change strategy.

Risks associated with climate change are continuing to 

evolve rapidly, making it difficult to assess the effects of 
climate change on the Company, and the Company expects 
that climate change-related risks will continue to evolve and 
increase over time. 

Regulatory and Legal Risk 
The Company is subject to extensive and evolving 
government regulation and supervision, which can 
increase the cost of doing business, limit the 
Company’s ability to make investments and generate 
revenue, and lead to costly enforcement actions 
Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect 
depositors’ funds, the federal Deposit Insurance Fund, and 
the United States financial system as a whole, and not the 
Company’s debt holders or shareholders. These 
regulations, and the Company’s inability to act in certain 
instances without receiving prior regulatory approval, affect 
the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, 
investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase 
common stock, and ability to pursue strategic acquisitions, 
among other activities. 

The Company expects that its business will remain 
subject to extensive regulation and supervision and that the 
level of scrutiny and the enforcement environment may 
fluctuate over time, based on numerous factors, including 
recent bank failures, changes in the United States 
presidential administration or one or both houses of 
Congress and public sentiment regarding financial 
institutions (which can be influenced by scandals and other 
incidents that involve participants in the industry). In 
particular, changes in administration may result in the 
Company and other large financial institutions becoming 
subject to increased scrutiny and/or more extensive legal 
and regulatory requirements than under prior presidential 
and congressional regimes. In addition, changes in key 
personnel at the agencies that regulate the Company, 
including the federal banking regulators, may result in 
differing interpretations of existing rules and guidelines and 
potentially more stringent enforcement and more severe 
penalties than previously experienced. New regulations or 
modifications to existing regulations and supervisory 
expectations have increased, and may in the future 
increase, the Company’s costs over time and necessitate 
changes to the Company’s existing regulatory compliance 
and risk management infrastructure. In addition, regulatory 
changes may reduce the Company’s revenues (including by 
limiting the fees the Company may charge), limit the types 
of financial services and products it may offer, alter the 
investments it makes, affect the manner in which it operates 
its businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs 
should it fail to appropriately comply with new or modified 
laws and regulatory requirements, and increase the ability of 

non-banks to offer competing financial services and 
products. 

Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or 

their interpretation or implementation, and/or regulatory 
practices, requirements or expectations, could affect the 
Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. For 
example, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 imposed a new 
one percent excise tax on corporate stock repurchases, 
which could impact the extent of the Company’s common 
stock repurchases, preferred stock redemptions, and 
mergers and acquisitions activity, as well as increase the 
Company’s tax liability and reduce the Company’s net 
income in connection with these activities. More recently, 
U.S. banking regulators issued proposed capital rules, 
commonly referred to as “Basel III Endgame”, that would 
result in significant changes to the U.S. regulatory capital 
rules for banking organizations with total consolidated 
assets of $100 billion or more, including the Company. The 
FDIC also issued its final rulemaking for special deposit 
insurance assessments to recover losses to the Deposit 
Insurance Fund arising from the protection of uninsured 
deposits in connection with the closures of three banks in 
early 2023, which resulted in a significant expense for the 
Company. Complying with regulatory changes has at times 
resulted in significant expense for the Company, and these 
and other future regulatory changes could result in further 
significant expenses which could materially affect the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In 
addition, failure to comply with any new law or regulation 
could result in litigation, regulatory enforcement actions and 
harm to the Company’s reputation.

General regulatory practices, such as longer time frames 

to obtain regulatory approvals for acquisitions and other 
activities (and the resultant impact on businesses the 
Company may seek to acquire), could affect the Company’s 
ability or willingness to make certain acquisitions or 
introduce new products or services. In addition, the Biden 
Administration has called on all regulatory agencies to 
reduce or eliminate certain fees relating to a number of 
services, including banking services. Similarly, the CFPB 
launched an initiative to reduce the amounts and types of 
fees financial institutions may charge, including by issuing a 
proposed rule that would significantly reduce the permissible 
amount of credit card late fees. These and other changes 
could affect the Company’s ability or willingness to provide 
certain products or services, necessitate changes to the 
Company’s business practices or reduce the Company’s 
revenues. 

Federal law grants substantial supervisory and 

enforcement powers to federal banking regulators and law 
enforcement agencies, including, among other things, the 
ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary 
penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or 
removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against 
banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. The 
financial services industry continues to face scrutiny from 
bank supervisors in the examination process and stringent 
enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state 
levels, including with respect to mortgage-related practices, 
fair lending practices, fees charged by banks, student 
lending practices, sales practices and related incentive 

147

compensation programs, and other consumer compliance 
matters, as well as compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti-
money laundering (“BSA/AML”) requirements and sanctions 
compliance requirements as administered by the Office of 
Foreign Assets Control, and consumer protection issues 
more generally. This regulatory scrutiny, or the results of an 
investigation or examination, may lead to additional 
regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. There is 
no assurance that those actions will not result in regulatory 
settlements or other enforcement actions against the 
Company or any of the Company’s subsidiaries (including 
USBNA), which could cause the Company material financial 
and reputational harm. Furthermore, a single event involving 
a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to 
numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, 
either by multiple federal and state agencies and officials in 
the United States or, in some instances, regulators and 
other governmental officials in foreign jurisdictions. In 
addition, another financial institution’s violation of law or 
regulation relating to a business activity or practice often will 
give rise to an investigation of the same or similar activities 
or practices of the Company. 

In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in 
settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity 
of other terms of regulatory settlements are likely to remain 
elevated. In some cases, governmental authorities have 
required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms, 
including admissions of wrongdoing and the imposition of 
monitors, as part of such settlements, which could have 
significant consequences for a financial institution, including 
loss of customers, reputational harm, increased exposure to 
civil litigation, restrictions on the ability to access the capital 
markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or 
offer certain products for a period of time. 

Non-compliance with sanctions laws and/or BSA/AML 

laws or failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML 
compliance program can lead to significant monetary 
penalties and reputational damage. In addition, federal 
regulators evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in 
combating money laundering when determining whether to 
approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, restructuring, 
or other expansionary activity. There have been a number of 
significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-
dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to 
sanctions laws and BSA/AML laws, and some have resulted 
in substantial penalties, including against the Company and 
USBNA in 2018. 

Violations of laws and regulations or deemed 

deficiencies in risk management practices or consumer 
compliance also may be incorporated into the Company’s 
confidential supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these 
ratings, or these or other regulatory actions and settlements, 
could limit the Company’s ability to conduct expansionary 
activities for a period of time and require new or additional 
regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other 
business activities. 

Differences in regulation can affect the Company’s 
ability to compete effectively The content and application 
of laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions 
vary according to the size of the institution, the jurisdictions 
in which the institution is organized and operates and other 

148  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

factors. Large institutions, such as the Company, often are 
subject to more stringent regulatory requirements and 
supervision than smaller institutions. In addition, financial 
technology companies and other non-bank competitors may 
not be subject to the prudential and consumer protection 
regulatory framework that applies to banks, or may be 
regulated by a national or state agency that does not have 
the same regulatory priorities or supervisory requirements 
as the Company’s regulators. These differences in 
regulation can impair the Company’s ability to compete 
effectively with competitors that are less regulated and that 
do not have similar compliance costs or restrictions on 
activities.

Stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity 
are applicable to larger banking organizations, 
including the Company, that may limit the Company’s 
ability to return earnings to shareholders or operate or 
invest in its business The Basel III Endgame rules, 
discussed above, would result in significant changes to 
regulatory capital rules for banking organizations with total 
consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, such as the 
Company. The Company expects that the final rules will 
result in requirements for the Company to hold significantly 
more capital than is required under current regulations. In 
addition, in response to bank failures that occurred in 2023, 
the Federal Reserve Vice Chair for Supervision and the 
Acting Comptroller of the Currency have indicated that the 
Federal Reserve and OCC, respectively, are considering 
additional liquidity risk management rules that they may 
propose in 2024. These and other future changes to the 
implementation of these rules including the stress capital 
buffer, or additional capital- and liquidity-related rules, could 
require the Company to take further steps to increase its 
capital, increase its investment security holdings, divest 
assets or operations, or otherwise change aspects of its 
capital and/or liquidity measures, including in ways that may 
be dilutive to shareholders or could limit the Company’s 
ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase its 
common stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to 
its customers. 

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions by 
the Federal Reserve Board have in the past limited and may 
in the future limit capital distributions, including suspension 
of the Company’s share repurchase program or reduction or 
suspension of the Company’s common stock dividend. In 
addition, recent events in the banking industry, including 
three high-profile bank failures in 2023, and the results of 
regulatory investigations into the failures could result in 
increased regulatory scrutiny and heightened regulatory 
requirements, any of which could require the Company to 
expend significant time and effort to implement appropriate 
compliance procedures or to incur other expenses, and 
could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition or 
results of operations.

Further, in August 2023, the Federal Reserve Board, 
OCC and FDIC issued a proposed rule that would require, 
among other institutions, each Category III U.S. bank 
holding company, including the Company, and each insured 
depository institution with $100 billion or more in total 
consolidated assets that is a consolidated subsidiary of a 
Category III U.S. bank holding company, such as USBNA, 

to have minimum levels of outstanding long-term debt. The 
proposed rule is intended to improve the resolvability of the 
banking organizations covered by the rule. The Company 
continues to evaluate the potential effects of the proposed 
rule. Although any effects on the Company and USBNA will 
depend on the final form of any rulemaking, the Company 
may need to change its current funding mix, including being 
required to raise additional long-term debt, which could 
adversely impact net interest margin and net interest 
income.

Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s 

Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information 
regarding the Company’s capital and liquidity requirements. 

The Company is subject to significant financial and 
reputation risks from potential legal liability and 
governmental actions The Company faces significant legal 
risks in its businesses, and the volume of claims and 
amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and 
governmental proceedings against it and other financial 
institutions are substantial. Customers, clients and other 
counterparties are making claims for substantial or 
indeterminate amounts of damages, while banking 
regulators and certain other governmental authorities have 
focused on enforcement. The Company is named as a 
defendant or is otherwise involved in many legal 
proceedings, including class actions and other litigation. As 
a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that 
the Company will continue to experience a high level of 
litigation and government scrutiny related to its businesses 
and operations in the future. Substantial legal liability or 
significant governmental action against the Company could 
materially impact the Company’s financial condition and 
results of operations (including because such matters may 
be resolved for amounts that exceed established accruals 
for a particular period) or cause significant reputational harm 
to the Company.

For example, banking organizations have been subject 
to claims regarding patent infringement or other violations of 
intellectual property rights in recent years which, in some 
cases, have resulted in large judgments against the banks. 
Such claims have in the past been brought against the 
Company, and if the Company is not successful in 
defending such claims or if new claims are brought or 
damages sought increase, the Company may incur 
substantial costs in defending such claims, regardless of 
their merit. If such claims are successful, the Company 
could be required to pay substantial damages and could 
suffer reputational and other harm.

Additionally, the previously disclosed discontinuance of 
LIBOR and the complex transition of relevant contracts from 
LIBOR to alternative rates could still have a range of 
adverse impacts on the Company's business and results of 
operations as a result of future disputes, litigation or other 
actions with clients, counterparties or investors related to 
the transition. The transition may also result in additional 
inquiries or other actions from regulators regarding the 
Company's replacement of LIBOR.

In addition, there is an increasing focus from lawmakers 

and regulators concerning ESG matters. Some states in 
which the Company does business have implemented “anti-
ESG” measures and may seek to implement additional 

measures in the future. Such measures may conflict with 
other regulatory requirements or the expectations of the 
Company's customers and shareholders. If the Company 
fails to comply with evolving, and possibly conflicting, legal 
and regulatory requirements, it could harm the Company’s 
ability to continue to conduct business in one or more of the 
jurisdictions in which the Company currently operates, or 
could otherwise harm the Company’s business.

 The Company assumed MUB’s liabilities as part of the 

acquisition, which includes ensuring ongoing compliance 
with an OCC consent order relating to MUB’s technology 
and operational risk management, and could also include 
other liabilities related to MUB’s compliance with banking 
law. Although the Company may be entitled to 
indemnification from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. for 
certain losses, such liabilities could result in additional 
regulatory scrutiny, constraints on the Company’s business, 
or enforcement actions, including civil money penalties or 
fines. Any of those events could have a material adverse 
impact on the Company’s future operations, financial 
condition, growth, or other aspects of its business. 

The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage 
loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a 
result of breaches in contractual representations and 
warranties When the Company sells mortgage loans that it 
has originated to various parties, including GSEs, it is 
required to make customary representations and warranties 
to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner 
in which they were originated. The Company may be 
required to repurchase mortgage loans or be subject to 
indemnification claims in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warranties that is not 
remedied within a certain period. Contracts for residential 
mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of 
specific remedies and penalties that could be applied if the 
Company does not adequately respond to repurchase 
requests. If economic conditions and the housing market 
deteriorate or the GSEs increase their claims for breached 
representations and warranties, the Company could have 
increased repurchase obligations and increased losses on 
repurchases, requiring material increases to its repurchase 
reserve. 

The Company’s failure to satisfy its obligations as 
servicer for automobile loan securitizations and 
residential mortgage loans owned by other entities, and 
other losses the Company could incur as servicer, 
could adversely impact the Company’s reputation, 
servicing costs or results of operations The Company 
services automobile loans on behalf of third-party 
securitization vehicles and also acts as servicer and master 
servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and 
for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a 
servicer or master servicer for those loans, the Company 
has certain contractual obligations to the securitization 
trusts, investors, or other third parties. As a servicer, the 
Company’s obligations include foreclosing on defaulted 
loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable 
securitization or other investor agreement, considering 
alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or 
short sales, as applicable. In the Company’s capacity as a 

149

master servicer, obligations include overseeing the servicing 
of mortgage loans by the servicer. Generally, the 
Company’s servicing obligations are set by contract, for 
which the Company receives a contractual fee. However, 
with respect to mortgage loans, GSEs can amend their 
servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs 
of the services required without any corresponding increase 
in the Company’s servicing fee. As a servicer, the Company 
also advances expenses on behalf of investors which it may 
be unable to collect. A material breach of the Company’s 
obligations as servicer or master servicer may result in 
contract termination if the breach is not cured within a 
specified period of time following notice. In addition, the 
Company may be required to indemnify the securitization 
trustee against losses from any failure by the Company, as 
a servicer or master servicer, to perform the Company’s 
servicing obligations or any act or omission on the 
Company’s part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, 
or gross negligence. For certain investors and certain 
transactions, the Company may be contractually obligated 
to repurchase a loan or reimburse the investor for credit 
losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors 
with respect to the loan. The Company may be subject to 
increased repurchase obligations as a result of claims made 
that the Company did not satisfy its obligations as a servicer 
or master servicer. The Company may also experience 
increased loss severity on repurchases, which may require 
a material increase to the Company’s repurchase reserve. 
The Company has and may continue to receive 
indemnification requests related to the Company’s servicing 
of mortgage loans owned or insured by other parties, 
primarily GSEs. 

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk 
Heightened credit risk could require the Company to 
increase its provision for credit losses, which could 
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results 
of operations and financial condition When the Company 
lends money, or enters into commitments to lend money, it 
incurs credit risk, or the risk of loss if its borrowers do not 
repay their loans. The credit performance of the Company’s 
loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results and 
condition. If the current economic environment were to 
worsen, the Company’s customers may have more difficulty 
in repaying their loans or other obligations, which could 
result in a higher level of credit losses and higher provisions 
for credit losses. Stress on the United States economy or 
the local economies in which the Company does business, 
including the economic stress caused by the pandemic, high 
commercial real estate vacancy rates, escalating 
geopolitical tensions and elevated interest rates and 
inflation, has resulted, and in the future may result, in, 
among other things, borrowers’ inability to refinance loans at 
maturity and unexpected deterioration in credit quality of the 
loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing those 
loans, which has caused, and in the future could cause, the 
Company to establish higher provisions for credit losses. 

The Company reserves for credit losses by establishing 

an allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for 
loan defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s 
allowance for credit losses is compliant with CECL 

150  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

accounting guidance, under which the allowance for credit 
losses reflects the Company’s expected lifetime loss 
estimates of the portfolio.  The allowance for credit losses is 
constructed based on an evaluation of the risks associated 
with its loan portfolio, including the size and composition of 
the loan portfolio, the portfolio’s historical loss experience, 
current and foreseeable economic conditions and borrower 
and collateral quality. These forecasts and estimates require 
difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including 
forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic 
predictions might impair the ability of the Company’s 
borrowers to repay their loans. The Company may not be 
able to accurately predict these economic conditions and/or 
some or all of their effects, which may, in turn, negatively 
impact the reliability of the process. The Company also 
makes loans to borrowers where it does not have or service 
the loan with the first lien on the property securing its loan. 
For loans in a junior lien position, the Company may not 
have access to information on the position or performance 
of the first lien when it is held and serviced by a third party, 
which may adversely affect the accuracy of the loss 
estimates for loans of these types. Increases in the 
Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate 
to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan 
losses could materially and adversely affect its financial 
results. In addition, the Company’s ability to assess the 
creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the 
models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and 
underwrite its customers become less predictive of future 
behaviors. 

A concentration of credit and market risk in the 
Company’s loan portfolio could increase the potential 
for significant losses The Company may have higher 
credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent 
its loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, 
borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. For 
example, high vacancy rates in commercial properties may 
affect the value of commercial real estate, including by 
causing the value of properties securing commercial real 
estate loans to be less than the amounts owed on such 
loans. In addition, elevated interest rates may make it more 
difficult for borrowers to refinance maturing loans. Any of 
these or other events could increase the level of defaults on 
commercial real estate loans and result in higher credit 
losses to the Company. The Company’s credit risk and 
credit losses can also increase if borrowers who engage in 
similar activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected 
by economic or market conditions, or by regulation, such as 
regulation related to climate change. Deterioration in 
economic conditions or real estate values in states or 
regions where the Company has relatively larger 
concentrations of residential or commercial real estate could 
result in higher credit costs. For example, the Company’s 
acquisition of MUB increased the Company’s exposure to 
the markets in California. Deterioration in real estate values 
and underlying economic conditions in California could 
result in higher credit losses to the Company. 

Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the 
Company’s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages 
held for sale, and can make its mortgage banking 
revenue volatile from quarter to quarter, which can 
reduce its earnings The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, 
which is the right to service a mortgage loan—collect 
principal, interest and escrow amounts—for a fee.  The 
Company’s MSR portfolio had a fair value of $3.4 billion as 
of December 31, 2023. The Company initially carries its 
MSRs using a fair value measurement of the present value 
of the estimated future net servicing income, which includes 
assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by 
borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment 
assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, 
prepayments tend to increase as borrowers refinance, and 
the fair value of MSRs can decrease, which in turn reduces 
the Company’s earnings. Further, it is possible that, 
because of economic conditions such as a weak or 
deteriorating housing market, even when interest rates fall, 
mortgage originations may fall or any increase in mortgage 
originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the 
MSRs’ value caused by the lower rates. 

The Company relies on the mortgage secondary market 
and GSEs for some of the Company’s revenue and 
liquidity The Company sells a portion of the mortgage 
loans that it originates to increase revenue through 
origination fees and ongoing servicing of such loans and to 
provide funding capacity for originating additional loans. 
GSEs could limit their purchases of conforming loans due to 
capital constraints, other changes in their criteria for 
conforming loans or other reasons. This potential reduction 
in purchases could limit the Company’s ability to fund new 
loans. In addition, if GSEs limited their purchases of 
conforming loans, the Company may limit its originations of 
mortgage loans that it intends to sell, which could reduce 
the Company’s revenue from origination fees of such loans 
and the ongoing servicing fees it receives from such loans. 
Proposals have been presented to reform the housing 
finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in 
the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any 
such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and 
the GSEs, as well as any effect on the Company’s business 
and financial results, are uncertain. 

A decline in the soundness, strength or stability of 
other financial institutions could adversely affect the 
Company’s results of operations Actual or perceived 
issues with, or rumors or questions about, one or more 
financial institutions, or about the financial services industry 
more generally, have recently lead to, and may in the future 
lead to, among other things, (i) market-wide liquidity 
problems; (ii) rapid and significant deposit withdrawals at 
certain institutions, particularly those with elevated levels of 
uninsured deposits; (iii) losses or defaults by certain 
institutions, up to and including failures of certain banks; and 
(iv) significant volatility in the stock of financial services 
institutions. In addition, the Company’s ability to engage in 
routine funding or settlement transactions could be 
adversely affected by any of these events or by other events 
that affect the commercial soundness of other domestic or 
foreign financial institutions. Failures of one or more banks 

that are unrelated to USBNA have increased, and may in 
the future increase, USBNA’s deposit insurance 
assessments, such as the FDIC’s special assessment 
relating to bank failures that occurred in 2023, and 
customers and others may seek to make comparisons 
between failed or failing banks and USBNA, which, even if 
unfounded, can spread quickly through social media or 
other online channels. Such comparisons could affect 
customer confidence in USBNA and lead to deposit 
withdrawals or other negative effects the Company is unable 
to predict, any of which could materially and negatively 
affect the Company’s results of operations and financial 
condition.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result 
of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The 
Company has exposure to many different counterparties, 
and the Company routinely executes and settles 
transactions with counterparties in the financial services 
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, 
investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other 
institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors 
or questions about, the soundness, strength or stability of 
one or more financial services institutions, or the financial 
services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults 
by the Company or by other institutions and impact the 
Company’s predominately United States–based businesses 
or the less significant merchant processing, corporate trust 
and fund administration services businesses it operates in 
foreign countries. Many of these transactions expose the 
Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a 
counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk 
may be further increased when the collateral held by the 
Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices 
not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial 
instrument exposure due the Company. Any such losses 
could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.

Change in residual value of leased assets may have an 
adverse impact on the Company’s financial results The 
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the 
risk that the residual value of the property under lease will 
be less than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse 
changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a 
negative impact on the Company’s financial results. The risk 
of changes in the realized value of the leased assets 
compared to recorded residual values depends on many 
factors outside of the Company’s control, including supply 
and demand for the assets, condition of the assets at the 
end of the lease term, and other economic factors. 

Liquidity Risk 
If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, 
its business could suffer The Company’s liquidity is 
essential for the operation of its business. Market 
conditions, the threat or occurrence of a U.S. sovereign 
default, unforeseen outflows of funds or other events could 
negatively affect the Company’s level or cost of funding, 
affecting its ongoing ability to accommodate liability 
maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual 
obligations, and fund asset growth and new business 
transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If 

151

the Company’s access to stable and low-cost sources of 
funding, such as customer deposits, is reduced, the 
Company might need to use alternative funding, which could 
be more expensive or of limited availability. Any substantial, 
unexpected or prolonged changes in the level or cost of 
liquidity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s 
business. 

In addition, recent bank failures led to significant volatility 
in the financial services industry and to liquidity problems at 
certain institutions. Although governmental support was 
provided in connection with recent bank failures, including 
the FDIC’s invoking the systemic risk exception to 
guarantee uninsured deposits, there can be no guarantee 
that the FDIC will invoke the systemic risk exception in 
connection with any future bank failures or that the 
government would otherwise take any action to provide 
liquidity to troubled institutions. Further, even if 
governmental support for financial institutions is available in 
the future, it may not be sufficient to address systemic risks.

Loss of customer deposits could increase the 
Company’s funding costs The Company relies on bank 
deposits to be a low-cost and stable source of funding. The 
Company competes with banks and other financial services 
companies for deposits, including those that offer online 
channels. Recent increases in short-term interest rates have 
resulted in and are expected to continue to result in more 
intense competition in deposit pricing. Competition and 
increasing interest rates have caused the Company to 
increase the interest rates it pays on deposits. If the 
Company’s competitors raise the interest rates they pay on 
deposits, the Company’s funding costs may increase, either 
because the Company raises the interest rates it pays on 
deposits to avoid losing deposits to competitors or because 
the Company loses deposits to competitors and must rely 
on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs 
reduce the Company’s net interest margin and net interest 
income. 

Checking and savings account balances and other 
forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers 
perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, 
as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers 
move money out of bank deposits and into other 
investments, the Company may lose a relatively low-cost 
source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding costs 
and reducing the Company’s net interest income. In 
addition, mass withdrawals of deposits occurred at certain 
banks that failed in 2023, seemingly triggered by losses in 
the banks’ investment securities portfolios and concerns 
about uninsured and uncollateralized deposits. A loss in the 
value of the Company’s investment or loan portfolio, 
perceived concerns regarding the Company’s and USBNA’s 
capital positions or perceived concerns regarding the level 
of USBNA’s uninsured and uncollateralized deposits could 
cause rapid and significant deposit outflows. This risk is 
exacerbated by technological developments and changes in 
banking relationships, such as customers maintaining 
accounts at multiple banks, which increase the ease and 
speed with which depositors are able to move their deposits, 
as well as by the way information, including false 
information or unfounded rumors, can be spread quickly 
through social media and other online channels. If USBNA 

152  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

were to experience a significant outflow of deposits, the 
Company may face significantly increased funding costs, 
suffer significant losses and have a significantly reduced 
ability to raise new capital.

The Company could lose access to sources of liquidity 
if it were to experience financial or regulatory issues 
The Company relies on sources of liquidity provided by the 
Federal Reserve Bank, such as the Federal Reserve Bank 
discount window and other liquidity facilities that the Federal 
Reserve Board may establish from time to time, as well as 
liquidity provided by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des 
Moines (the “FHLB”).  To access these sources of liquidity, 
the Federal Reserve Board or FHLB may impose conditions 
that the Company and USBNA are in sound financial 
condition (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board or 
FHLB) or that the Company and USBNA maintain minimum 
supervisory ratings.  If the Company or USBNA were to 
experience financial or regulatory issues, it could affect the 
Company’s or USBNA's ability to access liquidity facilities, 
including at times when the Company or USBNA needs 
additional liquidity for the operation of its business.  If the 
Company or USBNA were to lose access to these liquidity 
sources, it could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company’s operations and financial condition.

The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries 
for its liquidity needs, and the payment of those 
dividends is limited by laws and regulations The 
Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from USBNA 
and the Company’s non-bank subsidiaries. The Company 
receives a significant portion of its cash from dividends paid 
by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source 
of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s stock and 
interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state 
laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that 
USBNA and certain of the Company’s non-bank subsidiaries 
may pay to the Company without regulatory approval. Also, 
the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets 
upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to 
prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the 
extent that any of the Company’s claims as a creditor of that 
subsidiary may be recognized. Refer to “Supervision and 
Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for additional information regarding limitations on the 
amount of dividends USBNA may pay. 

Competitive and Strategic Risk 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, 
and competitive pressures could intensify and 
adversely affect the Company’s financial results The 
Company operates in a highly competitive industry that 
could become even more competitive as a result of 
legislative, regulatory and technological changes, as well as 
continued industry consolidation, which may increase in 
connection with current economic and market conditions. 
This consolidation may produce larger, better-capitalized 
and more geographically diverse companies that are 
capable of offering a wider array of financial products and 
services at more competitive prices. The Company 
competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan 

associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, 
mortgage banking companies, credit unions, investment 
companies, credit card companies, and a variety of other 
financial services and advisory companies. Legislative or 
regulatory changes also could lead to increased competition 
in the financial services sector. 

The adoption and rapid growth of new technologies, 
including generative artificial intelligence, cryptocurrencies 
and blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies, 
have required the Company to invest resources to adapt its 
systems, products and services, and it expects to continue 
to make similar investments. In addition, technology has 
lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks 
to offer products and services, such as loans and payment 
services, that traditionally were banking products, and made 
it possible for technology companies to compete with 
financial institutions in providing electronic, internet-based, 
and mobile phone–based financial solutions. Competition 
with non-banks, including technology companies, to provide 
financial products and services is intensifying. In particular, 
the activity of financial technology companies (“fintechs”) 
has grown significantly over recent years and is expected to 
continue to grow. Fintechs have and may continue to offer 
bank or bank-like products. For example, a number of 
fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan charters, 
which, in some cases, have been granted. In addition, other 
fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to 
offer deposit products or payment services to their 
customers. Many of these companies, including the 
Company’s competitors, have fewer regulatory constraints, 
and some have lower cost structures, in part due to lack of 
physical structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to 
industry changes in information technology systems, on 
which the Company and financial services industry are 
highly dependent, could present operational issues and 
require capital spending. The Company’s ability to compete 
successfully depends on a number of factors, including, 
among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic 
plans and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building 
long-term customer relationships based on quality service, 
competitive prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound 
assets; and industry and general economic trends. A failure 
to compete effectively could contribute to downward price 
pressure on the Company’s products or services or a loss of 
market share. 

The Company may need to lower prices on existing 
products and services and develop and introduce new 
products and services to maintain market share The 
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt 
its products and services to evolving industry standards. 
There is increasing pressure to provide products and 
services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce the 
Company’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-
based products and services. In addition, the adoption of 
new technologies or further developments in current 
technologies require the Company to make substantial 
expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and 
services. Also, these and other capital investments in the 
Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth in 
earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The 
Company might not be successful in developing or 

introducing new products and services, adapting to 
changing customer preferences and spending and saving 
habits (which may be altered significantly and with little 
warning), achieving market acceptance of its products and 
services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal 
customer relationships. 

The Company may not be able to complete future 
acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not 
produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at 
levels or within timeframes originally anticipated, may 
result in unforeseen integration difficulties, and may 
dilute existing shareholders’ interests The Company 
regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services 
businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to 
acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company 
cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions it 
might pursue. 

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory 

approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding 
company. The Company’s ability to pursue or complete an 
attractive acquisition could be negatively impacted by 
regulatory delay or other regulatory issues. The Company 
cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and 
conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be 
granted. For example, the Company may be required to sell 
branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval for 
bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain 
regulatory violations, including those that result in a 
downgrade in certain of the Company’s bank regulatory 
ratings, governmental authorities could, as a consequence, 
preclude it from pursuing future acquisitions for a period of 
time. In addition, the Company’s ability to complete future 
acquisitions may depend on factors outside its control, 
including changes in the presidential administration or in 
one or both houses of Congress and public sentiment 
regarding bank mergers. Acquisition activity by large 
banking organizations, such as the Company, continues to 
draw regulatory and policy focus, and future changes could 
impact consideration of and regulatory approval processes 
for certain acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions by large 
banking organizations such as the Company may receive 
negative coverage in the media or negative attention by 
certain members of Congress or other policymakers. If the 
Company were to receive significant negative publicity in 
connection with a proposed acquisition, it could damage the 
Company’s reputation and impede the Company’s ability to 
complete the acquisition.

There can be no assurance that acquisitions the 
Company completes, including its recently completed 
acquisition of MUB, will have the anticipated positive results, 
including results related to expected revenue increases, 
cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, 
and/or other projected benefits. The Company may incur 
substantial expenses related to acquisitions and integration 
of acquired companies. Successful integration of an 
acquired company has in the past presented and may in the 
future present challenges due to differences in systems, 
operations, policies and procedures, management teams 
and corporate cultures and may be more costly or difficult to 
complete than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse 
results. Integration efforts could divert management’s 

153

attention and resources, which could adversely affect the 
Company’s operations or results. Integration efforts could 
result in higher than expected customer loss, deposit 
attrition, loss of key employees, issues with systems and 
technology, disruption of the Company’s businesses or the 
businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise 
adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain 
relationships with customers and employees or achieve the 
anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative 
effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in 
acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than 
expected. In addition, future acquisitions may also expose 
the Company to increased legal or regulatory risks. Finally, 
future acquisitions could be material to the Company, and it 
may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those 
acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ 
ownership interests. 

Accounting and Tax Risk 
The Company’s reported financial results depend on 
management’s selection of accounting methods and 
certain assumptions and estimates, which, if incorrect, 
could cause unexpected losses in the future The 
Company’s accounting policies and methods are 
fundamental to how the Company records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s 
management must exercise judgment in selecting and 
applying many of these accounting policies and methods, so 
they comply with generally accepted accounting principles 
and reflect management’s judgment regarding the most 
appropriate manner to report the Company’s financial 
condition and results of operations. In some cases, 
management must select the accounting policy or method to 
apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 
reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the 
Company’s reporting materially different results than would 
have been reported under a different alternative. 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the 

Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 
They require management to make difficult, subjective or 
complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. 
Materially different amounts could be reported under 
different conditions or using different assumptions or 
estimates. These critical accounting policies include the 
allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair value, the 
valuation of MSRs, and income taxes. Because of the 
uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the 
Company may be required to do one or more of the 
following: significantly increase the allowance for credit 
losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly 
higher than the reserve provided, recognize significant 
losses on the remeasurement of certain asset and liability 
balances, or significantly increase its accrued taxes liability. 
For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies” 
in this Annual Report. In addition, the FASB, SEC and other 
regulatory agencies may issue new or amend existing 
accounting and reporting standards or change existing 
interpretations of those standards that could materially affect 
the Company's financial statements.

154  U.S. Bancorp 2023 Annual Report

The Company’s investments in certain tax-advantaged 
projects may not generate returns as anticipated and 
may have an adverse impact on the Company’s 
financial results The Company invests in certain tax-
advantaged projects promoting affordable housing, 
community development and renewable energy resources. 
The Company’s investments in these projects are designed 
to generate a return primarily through the realization of 
federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, 
over specified time periods. The Company is subject to the 
risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain 
subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on 
compliance features required to be met at the project level, 
will fail to meet certain government compliance 
requirements and will not be able to be realized. The 
possible inability to realize these tax credit and other tax 
benefits can have a negative impact on the Company’s 
financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax 
credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors 
outside of the Company’s control, including changes in the 
applicable tax code and the ability of the projects to be 
completed. 

General Risk Factors 
The Company’s framework for managing risks may not 
be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company 
The Company’s risk management framework seeks to 
mitigate risk and loss. The Company has established 
processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, 
monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is 
subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, 
interest rate risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputation 
risk, and operational risk related to its employees, systems 
and vendors, among others. However, as with any risk 
management framework, there are inherent limitations to the 
Company’s risk management strategies as there may exist, 
or develop in the future, risks that it has not appropriately 
anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company relies on 
quantitative models to measure certain risks and to estimate 
certain financial values, and these models could fail to 
predict future events or exposures accurately. The 
Company must also develop and maintain a culture of risk 
management among its employees, as well as manage risks 
associated with third parties, and could fail to do so 
effectively. If the Company’s risk management framework 
proves ineffective, the Company could incur litigation and 
negative regulatory consequences, and suffer unexpected 
losses that could affect its financial condition or results of 
operations. 

The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to attract 
and retain skilled employees The Company’s success 
depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key 
employees. Competition for the best people in most 
activities the Company engages in can be intense. 

The employment market has continued to evolve, 
influenced by macroeconomic shifts, changes in social 
norms post-pandemic and technology advancements. 
Heightened pressures on competitive pay levels and flexible 
work arrangements continue to be main focus areas. 

Employees have also shifted their focus to expectations 
that extend beyond traditional compensation and benefits, 
including better work-life balance, improved advancement 
opportunities and improved training, and many businesses, 
including the Company, have had to adapt quickly to the 
changing environment. The Company’s ability to compete 
successfully for talent has been and may continue to be 
affected by its ability to adapt quickly to such shifts in 
employee focus, and there is no assurance that these 
developments will not cause increased turnover or impede 
the Company’s ability to retain and attract the highest 
caliber employees. 

A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could 
have a material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding 
costs and access to capital markets The Company’s 
credit ratings, which are subject to credit agencies’ ongoing 
review of a number of factors, including factors not within 
the Company’s control, are important to the Company’s 
liquidity. A reduction in one or more of the Company’s credit 
ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, increase its 
funding costs or limit its access to the capital markets. 
Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of 
investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or 
otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Company, 
thereby adversely affecting the Company’s competitive 
position. There can be no assurance that the Company will 
maintain its current ratings and outlooks or whether or when 
any downgrades could occur.

155

