 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and access to liquidity, thereby affecting an investment in our Common Stock. Old National&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management program is an enterprise-wide framework for identifying, managing, mitigating, monitoring, aggregating, and reporting risks. The following major risks identified by Old National&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management Program are described below: strategic, financial, and reputational; credit; market, interest rate, and liquidity; operational; and legal, regulatory, and compliance. 

Strategic, Financial, and Reputational Risks 

The outbreak of COVID-19, or other such epidemic, pandemic, or outbreak of a highly contagious disease, occurring in the United States or in the geographies in which we conduct operations, could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s business operations, asset valuations, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Old National&#8217;s business is dependent upon the willingness and ability of our customers to conduct banking and other financial transactions. The COVID-19 outbreak, or other highly contagious or infectious disease, could negatively impact the ability of our employees and customers to conduct such transactions and disrupt the business activities and operations of Old National&#8217;s customers in the geographic areas in which Old National operates. The spread of the COVID-19 virus had an impact on Old National&#8217;s operations during fiscal year 2020, and the Company expects that the virus will continue to have an impact on the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the Company and its customers during fiscal year 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused changes in the behavior of customers, businesses, and their employees, including illness, quarantines, social distancing practices, cancellation of events and travel, business and school shutdowns, reduction in commercial activity and financial transactions, supply chain interruptions, increased unemployment, and overall economic and financial market instability. Future effects, including additional actions taken by federal, state, and local governments to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, are unknown. Any sustained disruption to Old National&#8217;s operations is likely to negatively impact Old National&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding Old National&#8217;s contingency plans and other safeguards against pandemics or another contagious disease, the spread of COVID-19 could also negatively impact the availability of Old National&#8217;s personnel who are necessary to conduct Old National&#8217;s business operations, as well as potentially impact the business and operations of Old National&#8217;s third party service providers who perform critical services for Old National. If the response to contain COVID-19, or another highly infectious or contagious disease, is unsuccessful, Old National could experience a material adverse effect on our business operations, asset valuations, financial condition, and results of operations. Material adverse impacts may include all or a combination of valuation impairments on Old National's intangible assets, investments, loans, loan servicing rights, deferred tax assets, or counter-party risk derivatives. 

Economic conditions have affected and could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profits. 

Old National&#8217;s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that Old National offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where Old National operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; terrorist acts; or a combination of these or other factors. 

An economic downturn, sustained high unemployment levels, or stock market volatility may negatively impact our operating results and have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, increasing the risk of loan defaults and losses. If the forecasts of economic conditions and other economic predictions are not accurate, we may face challenges in accurately estimating the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Expectations of negative market and economic conditions will be reflected in the allowances for credit losses for loans and debt securities to the estimated extent they will impact the credit losses of new and existing loans and debt securities over their remaining lives. The provision for credit losses will report the entire increased credit loss expectations over the remaining lives of the loans and debt securities in the period in which the change in expectation arises. Further, because of the impact of such increased credit losses on earnings and capital, our ability to make loans and pay dividends may be substantially diminished. 

Changes in economic or political conditions could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s earnings, if the ability of Old National&#8217;s borrowers to repay loans, or the value of the collateral securing such loans, declines. 

Old National&#8217;s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic or political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, inflation, money supply, and other factors beyond Old National&#8217;s control may adversely affect its asset quality, deposit levels, and loan demand and, therefore, Old National&#8217;s earnings. Because Old National has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property 

used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of Old National&#8217;s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on Old National&#8217;s earnings. In addition, substantially all of Old National&#8217;s loans are to individuals and businesses in Old National&#8217;s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in Old National&#8217;s primary market areas, which include Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, could have an adverse impact on Old National&#8217;s earnings. 

Acquisitions may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties and dilution to existing shareholder value. 

We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future, and we may engage in de novo banking center expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. 

We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek or expect. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any mergers or acquisitions will be successful or that, after giving effect to the merger or acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. 

Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of expenses and risks, including: 

&#8226; the time and costs associated with identifying potential new markets, as well as acquisition and merger targets; 

&#8226; the accuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; 

&#8226; the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; 

&#8226; our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; 

&#8226; the diversion of our management&#8217;s attention to the negotiation and execution of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; 

&#8226; entry into new markets where we lack experience; 

&#8226; the introduction of new products and services into our business; 

&#8226; the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; 

&#8226; closing delays and increased expenses related to the resolution of lawsuits filed by shareholders of target institutions; and 

&#8226; the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 

Old National must generally receive federal regulatory approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. Old National cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory 

approvals will be granted. Old National may be required to sell banks or banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. 

Future acquisitions could be material to Old National and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders&#8217; ownership interests. 

Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models. 

The processes that we use to estimate probable credit losses and to measure the fair value of assets carried on the balance sheet at fair value, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models are complex and reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances and require us to make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Different assumptions could have resulted in significant changes in valuation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Old National operates in an extremely competitive market, and Old National&#8217;s business will suffer if Old National is unable to compete effectively. 

In our market area, Old National encounters significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds, and other financial intermediaries. In addition, FinTech start-ups are emerging in key areas of banking. Our competitors may have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Old National does and may offer services that Old National does not or cannot provide. Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. Old National&#8217;s profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 

Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled people. 

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best employees in most of the activities we engage in can be intense. We may not be able to hire the best people for key roles or to keep them. The loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. 

We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. 

Old National has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to its common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on Old National&#8217;s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. 

Old National is an entity separate and distinct from Old National Bank. Old National Bank conducts most of our operations and Old National depends upon dividends from Old National Bank to service its debt and to pay dividends to Old National&#8217;s shareholders. The availability of dividends from Old National Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition including liquidity and capital adequacy of Old National Bank and other factors, that the OCC could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, the payment of dividends by our other subsidiaries is also subject to the laws of the subsidiary&#8217;s state of incorporation, and regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to such subsidiaries. At December 31, 2020, Old National Bank could pay dividends of $212.1 million without prior regulatory approval. In the event that Old National Bank was unable to pay dividends to us, we in turn would likely have to reduce or stop paying dividends on our Common Stock. Our failure to pay dividends on our Common Stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. See &#8220;Business &#8211; Supervision and Regulation &#8211; Dividend Limitations&#8221; and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Old National may not realize the expected benefits of its strategic imperatives. 

Old National&#8217;s ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including, among others, its ability to develop and successfully execute strategic plans and imperatives. Our strategic priorities include consistent quality earnings, enhanced management discipline, and strong risk management; greater confidence in decision making and appropriate levels of risk taking; fewer operational surprises, disruptions and losses; improved operational effectiveness and efficiency; more effective deployment of resources; and increased awareness and involvement in the achievement of strategic goals. Our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 

Credit Risk 

If Old National&#8217;s actual credit losses for loans or debt securities exceed Old National&#8217;s allowance for credit losses for loans and debt securities, Old National&#8217;s net income will decrease. Also, future additions to Old National&#8217;s allowance for credit losses will reduce Old National&#8217;s future earnings. 

Old National&#8217;s business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. As with most financial institutions, we maintain allowances for credit losses for loans and debt securities to provide for defaults and nonperformance, which represent an estimate of expected losses over the remaining contractual lives of the loan and debt security portfolios. This estimate is the result of our continuing evaluation of specific credit risks and loss experience, 

current loan and debt security portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, industry concentrations, reasonable and supportable forecasts for future conditions, and other factors that may indicate losses. The determination of the appropriate levels of the allowances for loan and debt security credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Generally, our nonperforming loans and other real estate owned reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers and weaknesses in the economies of the markets we serve. The allowances may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future allowance for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 

Old National&#8217;s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. 

Old National Bank originates commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, agricultural real estate loans, agricultural loans, consumer loans, and residential real estate loans primarily within Old National&#8217;s market areas. Commercial real estate, commercial, consumer, and agricultural real estate and operating loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: 

&#8226; Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. 

&#8226; Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower&#8217;s business. 

&#8226; Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. 

&#8226; Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either Old National Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, input costs, commodity and land prices, and interest rates. 

If Old National forecloses on collateral real property, Old National may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. 

Old National may have to foreclose on collateral real property to protect Old National&#8217;s investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case Old National will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that Old National, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of Old National&#8217;s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and Old National may have to advance funds in order to protect Old National&#8217;s investment or dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. 

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Old National. 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. Old National has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and Old National and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose Old National to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. In addition, Old National&#8217;s credit risk may be affected when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. These types of losses could materially adversely affect Old National&#8217;s results of operations or financial condition. 

Market, Interest Rate, and Liquidity Risks 

The price of Old National&#8217;s Common Stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. 

General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of Old National&#8217;s Common Stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of Old National&#8217;s Common Stock to fluctuate: 

&#8226; announcements of developments related to Old National&#8217;s business; 

&#8226; fluctuations in Old National&#8217;s results of operations; 

&#8226; sales or purchases of substantial amounts of Old National&#8217;s securities in the marketplace; 

&#8226; general conditions in Old National&#8217;s banking niche or the global or national economy; 

&#8226; a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts&#8217; expectations; 

&#8226; changes in analysts&#8217; recommendations or projections; and 

&#8226; Old National&#8217;s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. 

Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. 

Old National&#8217;s earnings depend substantially on Old National&#8217;s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates Old National earns on loans, securities and other earning assets and (ii) the interest rates Old National pays on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond Old National&#8217;s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If market interest rates rise, Old National will have competitive pressure to increase the rates that Old National pays on deposits, which could result in a decrease of Old National&#8217;s net interest income. If market interest rates decline, Old National could experience fixed-rate loan prepayments and higher investment portfolio cash flows, resulting in a lower yield on earning assets. Old National&#8217;s earnings can also be impacted by the spread between short-term and long-term market interest rates. 

Following the COVID-19 outbreak and during 2020, market interest rates have declined significantly. The 10-year U.S. Treasury bond fell below 1.00% on March 3, 2020 for the first time and the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the federal funds rate to a target range of 0.00% to 0.25%. Additionally, the Federal Reserve announced it will take the following actions: 

&#8226; purchase U.S. Treasury bills; 

&#8226; initiate overnight repurchase agreement operations; 

&#8226; reinvest principal received on the Federal Reserve&#8217;s securities portfolio; and 

&#8226; reduce the interest paid on excess bank reserves held by the Federal Reserve. 

These actions may materially and adversely affect Old National&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations, as well as negatively impact Old National&#8217;s customers and the respective suppliers, vendors, processors, and third party service providers for both Old National and its customers. 

Changes to LIBOR may adversely impact the value of, and the return on, our financial instruments that are indexed to LIBOR. 

The United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced in July 2017 that it will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. In November 2020, the LIBOR administrator published a consultation regarding its intention to delay the date on which it will cease publication of U.S. dollar LIBOR from December 31, 2021 to June 30, 2023 for the most common tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR, including the three-month LIBOR, but indicated no new contracts using U.S. dollar LIBOR should be entered into after December 31, 2021. Publication of non-U.S. dollar LIBOR would continue to cease after December 31, 2021. Notwithstanding the publication of this consultation, there is no assurance of how long LIBOR of any currency or tenor will continue to be published. It is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR, whether LIBOR rates will cease to be published before December 31, 2021 or June 30, 2023, as applicable, or whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. Although the ARRC has announced SOFR as its recommended alternative to LIBOR, SOFR may not gain market acceptance or be widely used as a benchmark. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates, 

the elimination or replacement of LIBOR, or other reforms may adversely affect the value of, and the return on our financial instruments. 

Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits or support our future growth. 

As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include brokered deposits, repurchase agreements, and federal funds purchased. Negative operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility could be constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. 

A reduction in our credit rating could adversely affect our business and/or the holders of our securities. 

The credit rating agencies rating our indebtedness regularly evaluate Old National and Old National Bank. Credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and ability to generate earnings, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. A downgrade of the credit ratings of Old National or Old National Bank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and capital, significantly increase our cost of funds, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us or purchase our securities. This could affect our growth, profitability, and financial condition, including liquidity. 

Operational Risks 

A failure or breach, including cyber-attacks, of our operational or security systems could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and create significant financial and legal exposure. 

Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks, and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that our security measures will provide absolute security. Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems. In fact, many other financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks, and other means. Certain financial institutions in the United States have also experienced attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties that were intended to disrupt normal business activities by making internet banking systems inaccessible to customers for extended periods. These &#8220;denial-of-service&#8221; attacks typically do not breach data security systems, but require substantial resources to defend, and may affect customer satisfaction and behavior. 

Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. We have implemented employee and customer awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. 

If our security systems were penetrated or circumvented, it could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our customers, or damage our computers or systems and those of our customers and counterparties, and could result in 

violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. 

We rely on third party vendors, which could expose Old National to additional cybersecurity risks. 

Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. Third parties may transmit confidential, propriety information on our behalf. Although we require third party providers to maintain certain levels of information security, such providers may remain vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious attacks that could ultimately compromise sensitive information. While we may contractually limit our liability in connection with attacks against third party providers, Old National remains exposed to the risk of loss associated with such vendors. 

In addition, a number of our vendors are large national entities with dominant market presence in their respective fields. Their services could prove difficult to replace in a timely manner if a failure or other service interruption were to occur. Failures of certain vendors to provide contracted services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and cause us to incur significant expense. 

Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. 

The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Old National&#8217;s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address customer needs by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Old National&#8217;s operations. Old National may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could negatively affect Old National&#8217;s growth, revenue, and profit. 

Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s financial results. 

Technology and other changes now allow many customers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and savings habits could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s operations, and Old National may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes. 

Old National&#8217;s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and Old National&#8217;s methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. 

Old National regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Old National also maintains an Enterprise Risk Management program designed to identify, manage, mitigate, monitor, aggregate, and report risks. Any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Additionally, instruments, systems, and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational, and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Old National may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. 

Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks 

We have risk related to legal proceedings. 

We are involved in judicial, regulatory, and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from our business activities and fiduciary responsibilities. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the 

claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending or future legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Old National operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which Old National is subject may adversely affect Old National&#8217;s results of operations. 

Old National operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by, among others, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFPB, the Federal Reserve, and the State of Indiana. Such regulation and supervision is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and federal deposit insurance funds. In addition, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the &#8220;U.S. Treasury&#8221;) has certain supervisory and oversight duties and responsibilities. See &#8220;Business &#8211; Supervision and Regulation&#8221; herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and such changes may adversely affect Old National&#8217;s business. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, mandated the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial industry regulation in decades. This legislation, among other things, weakened federal preemption of state consumer protection laws and established the CFPB with broad authority to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, including consumer mortgage banking. The scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions were determined and issued over time. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Old National has been substantial. Provisions in the legislation that affect the payment of interest on demand deposits and collection of interchange fees increased the costs associated with certain deposits and placed limitations on certain revenues those deposits generate. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required Old National to change certain of its business practices, intensified the regulatory supervision of Old National and the financial services industry generally, increased Old National&#8217;s capital requirements, and imposed additional assessments and costs on Old National. Requirements to maintain higher levels of capital or liquidity to address potential adverse stress scenarios could adversely impact the Company&#8217;s net income. 

Regulatory authorities also have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution, the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering program management, and the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s allowance for credit losses for loans. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing institutions, could have a material impact on Old National and its operations. 

Old National Bank&#8217;s active participation in the PPP, or in other relief programs, may expose us to credit losses as well as litigation and compliance risk. 

To support our customers, businesses, and communities, Old National Bank has participated in the PPP as a lender. The PPP commenced on April 3, 2020 and was available to qualified borrowers through August 8, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, Old National had originated over 9,700 loans with balances in excess of $1.5 billion to new and existing customers through the PPP. Old National Bank&#8217;s participation in the PPP, and participation in any other relief programs now or in the future, including those under the CARES Act, exposes us to certain credit, compliance, and other risks. 

Among other regulatory requirements, PPP loans are subject to forbearance of loan payments for a six-month period to the extent that loans are not eligible for forgiveness. If PPP borrowers fail to qualify for loan forgiveness, including by failing to use the funds appropriately in order to qualify for forgiveness under the program, Old National Bank has a greater risk of holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates. In addition, because of the short time period between the passing of the CARES Act and the implementation of the PPP, there is ambiguity in the laws, rules, and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. There is risk that the SBA or another governmental entity could conclude there is a deficiency in the manner in which Old National Bank originated, funded, or serviced PPP loans, which may or may not be related to the ambiguity in the CARES Act or the rules and guidance promulgated by the SBA and the U.S. Treasury regarding the operation of the PPP. In the event of such deficiency, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already made payment under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from us. 

Since the commencement of the PPP, several other banks have been subject to litigation regarding the process and procedures that such banks followed in accepting and processing applications for the PPP. We may be exposed to the risk of similar litigation. Any financial liability, litigation costs, or reputational damage caused by PPP-related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

In addition, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny regarding Old National Bank&#8217;s processing of PPP applications or its origination or servicing of PPP loans. While the SBA has said that in many instances, banks may rely on the certifications of borrowers regarding their eligibility for PPP loans, Old National Bank does have several obligations under the PPP, and if the SBA found that Old National Bank did not meet those obligations, the remedies the SBA may seek against Old National Bank, while unknown, may include not guarantying the PPP loans resulting in credit exposure to borrowers who may be unable to repay their loans. The PPP program may also attract significant interest from federal and state enforcement authorities, oversight agencies, regulators, and Congressional committees. State Attorneys General and other federal and state agencies may assert that they are not subject to the provisions of the CARES Act and the PPP regulations entitling Old National Bank to rely on borrower certifications, and take more aggressive action against us for alleged violations of the provisions governing Old National Bank&#8217;s participation in the PPP. 

Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how Old National reports its financial condition and results of operations. 

The FASB periodically changes the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of Old National&#8217;s financial statements. Additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how Old National records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Old National could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. 

If Old National fails to meet regulatory capital requirements which may require heightened capital levels, we may be forced to raise capital or sell assets. 

Old National is subject to regulations that require us to satisfy certain capital ratios, such as the ratio of our Tier 1 capital to our risk-based assets. Both the Dodd-Frank Act, which reformed the regulation of financial institutions in a comprehensive manner, and the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, which increased both the amount and quality of capital that financial institutions must hold, impact our capital requirements. If we are unable to satisfy these heightened regulatory capital requirements, due to a decline in the value of our loan portfolio or otherwise, we will be required to improve such capital ratios by either raising additional capital or by disposing of assets. If we choose to dispose of assets, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so at prices that we believe to be appropriate, and our future operating results could be negatively affected. If we choose to raise additional capital, we may accomplish this by selling additional shares of Common Stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership percentage of holders of our Common Stock and cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Additionally, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally may increase our capital costs and impair our ability to raise capital at any given time. See &#8220;Business &#8211; Supervision and Regulation&#8221; herein for further discussion on the Basel III regulatory capital reforms. 

Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failure. 

Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of Old National, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. We are most subject to fraud and compliance risk in connection with the origination of loans, ACH transactions, wire transactions, ATM transactions, and checking transactions. Our largest fraud risk, associated with the origination of loans, includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. Compliance risk is the risk that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures would adversely impact the performance of our loan portfolio. 

