 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties faced by the Company is provided in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. These risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company&#8217;s other filings made with the SEC. 

As a result of Old National entering into the merger agreement with First Midwest, certain risk factors have been identified: 

Old National has incurred and expects to incur substantial costs related to the merger with First Midwest (the &#8220;merger&#8221;) and integration. 

Old National has incurred and expects to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the merger. These costs include legal, financial advisory, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees, retention, severance and employee benefit-related costs, public company filing fees and other regulatory fees, financial printing and other printing costs, closing, integration and other related costs. Some of these costs are payable by Old National regardless of whether or not the merger is completed. 

Combining Old National and First Midwest may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and Old National may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. 

The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability to realize the anticipated cost savings from combining the businesses of Old National and First Midwest. To realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger, Old National and First Midwest must successfully integrate and combine their businesses in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized without adversely affecting current revenues and future growth. If Old National and First Midwest are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated, and integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses. 

An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, levels of expenses and operating results of the combined company following the completion of the merger, which may adversely affect the value of the common stock of the combined company following the completion of the merger. 

Old National and First Midwest have operated and, until the completion of the merger, must continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company&#8217;s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the companies&#8217; ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. Integration efforts between the companies may also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on Old National during this transition period and on the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the merger. 

Furthermore, the board of directors and executive leadership of the combined company will consist of former directors and executive officers from each of Old National and First Midwest. Combining the boards of directors and management teams of each company into a single board and a single management team could require the reconciliation of differing priorities and philosophies. 

The combined company may be unable to retain Old National and/or First Midwest personnel successfully after the merger is completed. 

The success of the merger will depend in part on the combined company&#8217;s ability to retain the talent and dedication of key employees currently employed by Old National and First Midwest. It is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with Old National or First Midwest, as applicable, while the merger is pending or with the combined company after the merger is consummated. If Old National and First Midwest are unable to retain key 

employees, including management, who are critical to the successful integration and future operations of the companies, Old National and First Midwest could face disruptions in their operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment costs. In addition, following the merger, if key employees terminate their employment, the combined company&#8217;s business activities may be adversely affected, and management&#8217;s attention may be diverted from successfully hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause the combined company&#8217;s business to suffer. Old National and First Midwest also may not be able to locate or retain suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company. 

The COVID-19 pandemic may delay and adversely affect the completion of the merger. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, the business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations of Old National. If the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cause a continued or extended decline in the economic environment and the financial results of Old National, or the business operations of Old National are further disrupted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, efforts to complete the merger and integrate the businesses of Old National and First Midwest may also be delayed and adversely affected. Additional time may be required to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, and regulators may impose additional requirements on Old National or First Midwest that must be satisfied prior to completion of the merger, which could delay and adversely affect the completion of the merger. 

Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected, or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. 

Before the merger and the subsequent merger of First Midwest Bank and Old National Bank (the &#8220;bank merger&#8221;) may be completed, various approvals, consents and non-objections must be obtained from the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and other regulatory authorities in the United States. In determining whether to grant these approvals, such regulatory authorities consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of each party. These approvals could be delayed or not obtained at all, including due to an adverse development in either party&#8217;s regulatory standing or in any other factors considered by regulators when granting such approvals; governmental, political or community group inquiries, investigations or opposition; or changes in legislation or the political environment generally. 

The approvals that are granted may impose terms and conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company&#8217;s business or require changes to the terms of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose any such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reducing the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Additionally, the completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of certain orders, injunctions or decrees by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction that would prohibit or make illegal the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. 

In addition, despite the parties&#8217; commitments to using their reasonable best efforts to comply with conditions imposed by regulators, under the terms of the merger agreement, neither Old National nor First Midwest, nor any of their respective subsidiaries, is permitted (without the written consent of the other party), to take any action, or commit to take any action, or agree to any condition or restriction, in connection with obtaining the required permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of governmental entities that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the combined company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the merger and the bank merger. 

Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact Old National. 

If the merger is not completed for any reason, there may be various adverse consequences and Old National may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from its customers and employees. For example, Old National&#8217;s business may have been impacted adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, the market price of Old National common stock could decline 

to the extent that current market prices reflect a market assumption that the merger will be beneficial and will be completed. Old National also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to proceedings commenced against Old National to perform its obligations under the merger agreement. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Old National may be required to pay a termination fee of $97 million to First Midwest. 

Additionally, Old National has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, as well as the costs and expenses of preparing, filing, printing, and mailing the joint proxy statement/prospectus, and all filing and other fees paid in connection with the merger. If the merger is not completed, Old National would have to pay these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. 

Old National will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. 

Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Old National. These uncertainties may impair Old National&#8217;s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with Old National to seek to change existing business relationships with Old National. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, Old National has agreed to operate its business in the ordinary course in all material respects and to refrain from taking certain actions that may adversely affect its ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement on a timely basis without the consent of First Midwest. These restrictions may prevent Old National from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. 

Shareholder litigation related to the merger could prevent or delay the completion of the merger, result in the payment of damages or otherwise negatively impact the business and operations of Old National. 

Two lawsuits and four demand letters relating to the disclosures contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus distributed to Old National stockholders in connection with the merger have been filed or delivered by alleged stockholders of First Midwest. Among other remedies, these lawsuits and demand letters, and additional litigation or demand letters related to the merger in the future, may seek damages and/or to enjoin the merger. While Old National believes that the claims asserted in the civil litigation are without merit, if any plaintiff were successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting First Midwest or Old National from completing the merger or any other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, then such injunction may delay or prevent the effectiveness of the merger and could result in costs to Old National, including costs in connection with the defense or settlement of any stockholder lawsuits filed in connection with the merger. Further, such lawsuits and demand letters and the defense or settlement of claims contained in any such lawsuits or demand letters may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of Old National. 

The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed. 

The merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. Those conditions include: (i) approval by First Midwest stockholders of the First Midwest merger proposal and the approval by Old National shareholders of the Old National merger proposal at each company&#8217;s respective special meeting held on September 15, 2021, which approvals were obtained; (ii) authorization for listing on NASDAQ of the shares of Old National common stock and new Old National preferred stock to be issued in the merger, subject to official notice of issuance; (iii) the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the approval of the OCC, which has been obtained, and the Federal Reserve Board; and (iv) the absence of any order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint preventing the completion of the merger, the bank merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement or making the completion of the merger, the bank merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement illegal. Each party&#8217;s obligation to complete the merger is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including (a) subject to applicable materiality standards, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (b) the performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the merger agreement, (c) the receipt by each party of an opinion from its counsel to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and (d) the execution and delivery of the bank merger agreement. 

These conditions to the closing may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. In addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after the requisite shareholder and stockholder approvals, or Old National or First Midwest may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances. 

