as requested:

```
```
As the new coronavirus spreads, people are worried that signing payment screens at store checkouts could
make them sick. According to the card networks, they shouldn't have to sign anyway.
Major card networks including Visa Inc., Mastercard Inc., American Express Co. and Discover Financial
Services stopped requiring signatures on almost all card purchases, no matter the dollar amount, over the
past couple of years. Many stores and card companies don't even check the signatures.
There are two main reasons for the disconnect: Some stores actually do want signatures, viewing them as a
way to improve security. And many stores just haven't updated their payment terminals to remove the
signature prompt.                                                       
Mastercard last week sent a letter to banks that help process payments, asking them to remind merchants
that the network no longer requires signatures. "As the Covid-19 situation continues to evolve, public health
officials have advised that it's imperative that we all do our best to reduce physical contact with people or
potentially contaminated surfaces," the company wrote.                  
Card networks like Mastercard are in charge of the rails that card payments run on. Banks issue cards and
some of them also help process payments on behalf of merchants, which pay fees to card issuers, networks
and acquirers.                                                          
The networks and stores used to be strict about making people sign for credit-card purchases, but the
signatures became less important over time.                             
Some networks stopped requiring them for small purchases. Over the past couple of years, they stopped
requiring them for almost all purchases.                                
                                                                                  
The companies say signatures are no longer needed because card technology to catch fraud has improved,
in particular the chip cards that have largely replaced magnetic stripe cards over the past few years.
There are exceptions where the networks still want signatures. For example, Visa says it requires a signature
if the merchant doesn't accept chip cards.                              
The National Retail Federation said its survey last year found that about two-thirds of U.S. retailers expected
to remove the signature requirement by the end of 2020 or already had.  
                                                                                  
Cecilia Quick isn't normally a germaphobe, but recently she refused to sign the checkout terminal at a
computer repair store.                                                  
"I was like 'OK, this manicured hand is not touching that,' " said the 60-year-old retired attorney in San Jose,
Calif.                                                                  
                                                                                  
She told a clerk that she wouldn't sign until the screen was wiped down. He brought back a bottle of Windex
from the store's bathroom and wiped the screen.