```
Santander Consumer USA Inc. has reached a $550 million deal with nearly three dozen states to settle
charges of predatory auto lending to low-income and subprime borrowers. 
The settlement, announced Tuesday, resolves charges that one of the largest subprime auto lenders in the
U.S. made loans borrowers couldn't afford to repay.                     
The states also claim that Santander failed to monitor dealers that falsified borrowers' incomes and other
information when submitting loan applications.                          
"Over the last several years, we have strengthened our risk management across the board -- improving our
policies and procedures to identify and prevent dealer misconduct, and tightening standards to ensure
affordability," Santander said in a written statement.                  
Thirty-three states and the District of Columbia accused Santander of extending loans that were too big
relative to borrowers' incomes, charging excessive fees and failing to monitor dealership loan-approval
practices.                                                              

California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Santander profited by extending high-interest loans to buyers
"who were doomed from the start" to default.                            
The settlement includes $65 million of restitution for consumers.       
It also involves $433 million in loan forgiveness, including for customers who have had cars repossessed but
still owe money to Santander.                                           

The lender also agreed to waive balances for customers who have very low credit scores and who had
stopped paying their loans as of the end of last year.                  
In addition to the penalty, Santander agreed to factor its borrowers' ability to repay its loans into its
underwriting.                                                           
It agreed not to fund loans that, when combined with other debt payments and monthly costs, would eat up a
borrower's entire income.                                               

Most auto-loan financing is arranged through dealerships, and lenders that fund the loans are supposed to
carefully review borrowers' applications.                               
Lenders have been approving consumers for auto loans that they can't afford, including loans with larger
monthly payments than borrowers' incomes, The Wall Street Journal reported last year.

More consumers are signing up for loans that are larger than their car's purchase price, the Journal reported,
increasing their chances of default.                                    
Consumer lawyers say the practices often result in repossessed cars and damaged credit scores that make it
harder for people to qualify for affordable financing.                  
Santander didn't verify several numbers in consumers' auto-loan applications that would have determined
whether they could afford the financing, the states said in their complaints.

It accepted stated-income loans without requiring documentation from dealers or consumers that would prove
the income listed on the application, the states said.                  
Loan applicants' housing costs were also rarely verified, and Santander didn't have measures in place to
catch falsified figures, the states alleged.                            

When a loan application didn't include housing costs, Santander would assume a lower figure than what was
reasonable for the area, according to the complaints.                   
The settlement highlights lenders' reliance on dealerships to boost loan sales.

There was internal tension at Santander over how to handle dealerships that were found to have falsified
applications, according to the states' complaints.                      
The lender, the states said, tracked problematic dealers but often failed to cut ties with them if they were
delivering enough profitable loans.                                     
Santander's loans, which often come with double-digit interest rates, are typically packaged into bonds and
sold to investors.                                                      

Last year, Santander issued $8.3 billion worth of these bonds, more than twice the amount of the next largest
subprime auto lender, according to data from Finsight.                  
Santander in 2017 settled claims stemming from its subprime auto-lending practices with the attorneys
general of Delaware and Massachusetts.
```