```

Before the coronavirus crisis, three of New York City's largest commercial tenants -- Barclays, JP Morgan
Chase and Morgan Stanley -- had tens of thousands of workers in towers across Manhattan. Now, as the city
wrestles with when and how to reopen, executives at all three firms have decided that it is highly unlikely that
all their workers will ever return to those buildings.                  

James Gorman, the Morgan Stanley chief executive, declined a request for an interview. But he told
Bloomberg that the company had ''proven we can operate with no footprint. That tells you an enormous
amount about where people need to be physically.''                      

Barclays, JP Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley are part of a banking industry that has long been a pillar of
the city's economy, with more than 20,000 employees. Collectively, they lease more than 10 million square
feet in New York -- roughly all the office space in downtown Nashville. 

Tenants are weighing a need for office space in Manhattan. (A1); Entire economies in New York City rely on
the vast flow of commuters to and from office buildings, from transit to restaurants to shops. Not to mention
the tax base.; Morgan Stanley is part of a banking industry that has long been a pillar of Manhattan's
economy.                                                                

CATEGORY                                                                
Morgan Stanley Hid Fees From Some Customers                             
Morgan Stanley agreed to pay a $5 million fine to settle a Wall Street regulator's complaint that it loaded extra
fees onto accounts of some customers who were expecting to pay only a flat rate for its investment advice.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said on Tuesday that the extra fees were levied from 2012 to 2017
on accounts that were part of its ''wrap fee'' program, which was supposed to be managed for a flat fee. In
marketing materials for the program, the bank told customers the accounts would connect them with
top-notch investment advisers ''while streamlining and simplifying the expense associated with such a
portfolio.''                                                            
Instead, the customers were charged additional fees when Morgan Stanley asked outside brokers to make
trades.                                                                 
The bank failed to offer customers enough information to identify the extra fees they were paying, the S.E.C.
said. The regulator said Morgan Stanley knew that some advisers in the program sent some or even all of
their clients' business to outside brokers, at additional costs that were hidden in the prices of the investments.
''Investment advisers are obligated to fully inform their clients about the fees that clients will pay in exchange
for services,'' an S.E.C. official, Melissa R. Hodgman, said in a statement emailed to journalists on Tuesday.