Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co. while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2020_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lenders Tighten Approval Standards....................................................................................................................... 2
          JPMorgan Probed on Treasurys --- Government expands campaign against spoofing beyond derivatives............ 4
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's Hot Stock Puts Buybacks in Doubt..................................................................................................... 14
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LendersTightenApprovalStandards                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lenders Tighten Approval Standards                                      
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Peter Rudegeair                              
          999 words                                                               
          30 March 2020                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Banks and financial-technology firms are starting to toughen approval standards for new loans to consumers
          and small businesses.                                                   
          Large U.S. lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Capital One Financial Corp.
          and Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc. are among the companies reviewing and revising certain
          lending criteria, according to people familiar with the matter. Planned moves include approving fewer
          consumers with lower credit scores, asking for more income documentation and placing lower spending limits
          on new credit cards.                                                    
          Loan solicitations by email have dropped for credit cards and personal loans, according to market-research
          firm Competiscan. AmEx, Bank of America and JPMorgan have sent almost no card solicitations in more than
          a week.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganProbedonTreasurys---Governmentexpandscampaignagainstspoofingbeyondderivatives
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan Probed on Treasurys --- Government expands campaign against spoofing beyond
          derivatives                                                             
          By Dave Michaels                                                        
          628 words                                                               
          18 March 2020                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          WASHINGTON -- Authorities are investigating whether traders at JPMorgan Chase & Co. manipulated the
          market for Treasury securities and futures contracts, according to regulatory disclosures and people familiar
          with the matter.                                                        
          The investigation shows that federal prosecutors and regulators continue to expand a campaign against an
          illicit practice known as spoofing, which has mainly focused on wily trading in derivatives. A move to
          scrutinize whether similar practices have affected the $17 trillion market for Treasury securities would open a
          new, and potentially more complicated, front in the war on spoofing.    
          The bank disclosed in a Feb. 25 regulatory filing that it is dealing with "related requests concerning similar
          trading-practices issues in markets for other financial instruments, such as U.S. Treasurys." According to
          people familiar with the matter, the investigation also is probing the bank's trading in futures. It couldn't be
          learned which time period authorities are focusing their investigation on.
          The Justice Department's Fraud Section and regulators at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
          involved, the people said. A spokeswoman for JPMorgan declined to comment. A spokesman for the Justice
          Department declined to comment.                                         
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan'sHotStockPutsBuybacksinDoubt                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's Hot Stock Puts Buybacks in Doubt                             
          By David Benoit                                                         
          922 words                                                               
          3 February 2020                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          James Dimon is facing a Warren Buffett-like problem: a lot of cash and an expensive stock.
          Over the past three years, Mr. Dimon's JPMorgan Chase & Co. has spent most of its profit on share
          repurchases. That has been a boon for shareholders, since buybacks typically increase a company's stock
          price.                                                                  
          The issue is that JPMorgan shares, trading as they are at records, are getting more expensive.
          Analysts and investors are starting to ask if that means repurchases will slow.
                                                                                  
          Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Piepszak said on a conference call last month that the bank would "look at
          alternatives" to buybacks if the stock continued to rise. "It's a high-class problem," she said.
          That high-class problem is concerning for some.                         
                                                                                  
          Banks' margins and profits are expected to slip this year as interest rates stay low. Slower buybacks could
          add to the pressure on returns and, therefore, the stock.               
          "That puts them in a bind," said D.A. Davidson & Co. analyst David Konrad. "There are a couple headwinds,
          and one of them is the expectation the buyback starts to decline."      
          In a buyback, a company uses its cash to buy its own existing shares, reducing its share count. That means a
          company's per-share earnings can rise even if profits don't.            
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan has also increased its dividend 10 times in the past nine years.
          But banks have to hold extra capital if they decide to pay dividends, and shareholders have to pay taxes on
          them.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          What's left is buybacks. Investors and analysts regularly seek updates on where Mr. Dimon's ceiling is for
          them. It has been creeping upward along with the bank's stock and profitability.
          He said in 2012 the math started making less sense when the stock traded above 1.35 times tangible book
          value, a measure of the worth of a company's assets.                    
          In 2017, he said it still made sense to repurchase around 2 times tangible book. In 2018 he said he wouldn't
          do it at 3 times tangible book, though, calling it "crazy."             
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan's tangible book value is $60.98 a share and the stock has been trading near $140 this year, about
          2.3 times the metric. (The stock has slipped recently.)                 
          A year like the stock had in 2019, when it gained more than 40%, would likely put it past 3 times.
                                                                                  
          JPMorgan has paid out $87 billion in buybacks and dividends over the past three years -- 98% of its profit,
          roughly in line with rivals.                                            
          Most of that has been through stock repurchases.                        
                                                                                  
          The buybacks have juiced per-share earnings.                            
          The bank earned $10.72 a share in 2019. If the share count had stayed flat from the end of 2016, all else
          being equal, that would have been $9.49.                                
          Investors say they still support repurchases for the same reasons executives have defended them:
          JPMorgan's profitability is high and buybacks seem better than other options.
                                                                                  
          By several metrics, JPMorgan and banks broadly remain cheap compared with other stocks.
          "They aren't compromising on any investments," said Kush Goel, a senior research analyst at investor
          Neuberger Berman. "I'm not sure it feels too rich to buy back stock at this level."
                                                                                  
          Mr. Buffett, who has been buying JPMorgan shares, appears to agree.     
                                                                                  
          Page 14 of 18 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
```