Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2020_Q1
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Goldman Sachs Chief Gets A Raise After Rocky Year .................................................................. 2
          Banks Plan Backup Office Sites as Pandemic Prep ................................................................................................ 3
                                                                                  
          Goldman's Trader-Coder Star Is Set to Leave Firm ................................................................................................. 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---GoldmanSachsChiefGetsARaiseAfterRockyYear                    
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Goldman Sachs Chief Gets A Raise After Rocky Year          
          By Liz Hoffman                                                          
          283 words                                                               
          21 March 2020                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive David Solomon got a 19% raise in 2019, a message likely to
          resonate poorly among traders and bankers who saw their own bonuses cut and who are facing a long period
          of economic uncertainty.                                                
          Mr. Solomon earned $24.7 million in 2019, the bank said Friday, including a $7.7 million cash bonus and
          almost $15 million in stock. That is up from $20.7 million the year before, most of which he spent as
          CEO-in-waiting, and makes him Goldman's best-paid chief since Lloyd Blankfein took home $41 million in
          2008.                                                                   
          His top lieutenants also received pay bumps.                            
          John Waldron, the banks' president and chief operating officer, was paid $22 million and finance chief
          Stephen Scherr received $20 million.                                    
          At Goldman, as at other big banks, most of their compensation is in the form of shares whose value is tied to
          how the bank performs over the next few years.                          
                                                                                  
          The pay packages are likely to rile employees who saw their bonus checks shrink in 2019 as Goldman spent
          heavily to build new businesses like consumer banking and upgrade its technology.
          Revenue was flat and profits fell to a four-year low, in part because the bank socked away an extra $1.1
          billion in legal reserves as it nears a settlement with U.S. regulators over its involvement in a Malaysian
          corruption scandal.                                                     
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave CEO James Dimon, the highest-paid bank chief, a 1.6% raise to $31.5 million.
          Goldman's close rival, Morgan Stanley, cut the pay of CEO James Gorman 7% despite record annual
          revenue.                                                                
          Document J000000020200321eg3l0005x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BanksPlanBackupOfficeSitesasPandemicPrep                                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banks Plan Backup Office Sites as Pandemic Prep                         
          By Rachel Louise Ensign, Liz Hoffman and Justin Baer                    
          852 words                                                               
          2 March 2020                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          U.S. banks are preparing for a worsening coronavirus outbreak by laying plans to move staffers to back-office
          sites, limiting contact with clients who have been abroad and curbing employee travel.
          Morgan Stanley, whose New York City stock-trading floor is the country's busiest, is preparing a backup site
          in suburban Westchester County. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has nixed all nonessential international trips.
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is canceling some conferences and evaluating powering up a parallel trading floor
          in Greenwich, Conn.                                                     
          Not since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks have Wall Street banks faced a logistical challenge like the one
          potentially posed by a coronavirus outbreak in the U.S. Sustained quarantines and widespread business
          closures would hit credit-card and corporate-lending businesses. Further interest-rate cuts, which the Federal
          Reserve may use to shore up the economy, would crimp profits.           
          "If planes are not flying in and out of China, if hotels are not being filled -- which they're not at the moment --
          and if the supply chains are being impacted which I suspect they are, there's going to be some impact," Visa
          Inc. Chief Executive Officer Alfred Kelly said last month.              
          While technology has made it possible for many to work from home, the multiple screens and compliance
          systems installed on Wall Street trading floors can't be easily replicated on a laptop. And investment banking
          is still a face-to-face business, drummed up by weeks on the road.      
          Financial firms have drawn up elaborate contingency plans in recent years that they hope will allow them to
          keep operating smoothly. Just a few weeks ago, Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ran a drill temporarily
          shutting down its downtown Manhattan headquarters, an executive said.   
          Despite the market meltdown, trading floors at many banks remain calm. One salesperson said increased
          activity meant it was a bit noisier than usual, but nothing compared with the 2010 flash crash or the weeks
          leading up to the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers.                     
          Banks and brokers have opened backup facilities throughout the world in recent years. Many are required by
          their regulators to plan and test for various scenarios, said Glenn Schorr, an analyst with Evercore ISI.
          Significant improvements in computing power and telecommunications networks also have made working
          remotely a possibility for many more employees.                         
          One key obstacle for firms will be how they contend with rules on recording phone calls and other
          communications related to specific transactions when traders aren't working from their usual desk, one bank
          executive said. Industry officials are urging regulators to consider relaxing these surveillance rules in the
          event that employees are forced to work from home, this executive said. 
          Officials at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, an industry trade group, have raised
          the surveillance issue in discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission, along with other
          potential challenges Wall Street would face during a wide-scale evacuation of U.S. trading floors.
          "We are providing information to them for them to consider," said Kenneth Bentsen, Sifma's president and
          CEO. "We haven't made a formal request."                                
                                                                                  
          In some ways, the job of girding against pandemic has gotten simpler. The advent of electronic exchanges,
          trading algorithms and other technological advances on the markets have steadily shrunk the number of
          employees on trading floors on Wall Street and elsewhere. And many who remain are in roles that can be
          performed adequately in remote locations.                               
          With the addition of software engineers, compliance staff and other in-demand positions, the securities
          industry's total New York City workforce rose to 180,300 last year from 165,900 in 2003, according to the
          Page 3 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          New York State Department of Labor. But the number of employees classified by the department as brokers
          -- or those who serve as intermediaries between buyers and sellers -- has dropped to 53,300 from 73,000 in
          the same period.                                                        
          The 12 biggest global investment banks employed 26% fewer equity traders, salespeople and analysts at the
          end of 2019 than they did in 2010, according to industry-data firm Coalition Ltd. Front-office staff on
          bond-trading desks have tumbled 42% over the same period, according to Coalition.
          That said, the task of limiting health risks is far-reaching. Like other large companies, lenders are limiting
          employee exposure to countries where the virus has taken hold. Morgan Stanley's upcoming annual Hong
          Kong summit will be virtual, while Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. have restricted employee travel to
          Asia and Italy.                                                         
          Goldman's private bankers are canceling meetings with clients who have been to virus hot spots, according to
          clients. Registered attendees of several upcoming Goldman conferences received emails asking them to stay
          home if they recently visited virus-affected regions.                   
          A sign at the front desk of the bank's downtown Manhattan headquarters asks visitors who have recently
          returned from mainland China -- or been in contact with someone who has -- to reschedule.
                                                                                  
          ---                                                                     
          Julia-Ambra Verlaine and David Benoit contributed to this article.      
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020200302eg320000m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman'sTrader-CoderStarIsSettoLeaveFirm                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman's Trader-Coder Star Is Set to Leave Firm                        
          By Liz Hoffman                                                          
          352 words                                                               
          4 February 2020                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B11                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s "straders," the hybrid trader-coders whose star has been on the rise inside the
          Wall Street firm, are losing their ringleader.                          
          Adam Korn, who represented a new kind of Wall Street trader -- one reared on computer code, not instinct --
          is leaving the firm, people familiar with the matter said. His departure follows that of Martin Chavez, a
          technologist and trading executive who left at the end of last year. More resignations are expected across the
          firm in the coming weeks, as 2019 bonuses are paid out.                 
          An 18-year Goldman veteran, Mr. Korn most recently supervised 5,000 engineers working to electronify the
          trading floor and build new software for clients. The most ambitious, called Marquee, is laying digital pipelines
          to replace a trading flow that still relies on phone calls and paper tickets.
          Goldman has long prided itself on its engineering. Its house-built trading and risk-management software,
          known as SecDB, led a digital revolution on Wall Street in the 1990s, and today about one-quarter of its
          employees are coders.                                                   
          More recently, Chief Executive David Solomon has hired from Silicon Valley and promoted investment
          bankers into senior tech roles.                                         
          Last fall he hired a pair of outsiders, Amazon.com Inc. veteran Marco Argenti and former Yahoo executive
          Atte Lahtiranta, to help lead Goldman's technology efforts.             
                                                                                  
          That has appeared to leave less room for executives like Mr. Korn, an applied math and economics
          double-major at Brown University who joined Goldman in 2002.            
          He spent his early years churning out code in the corner of the firm's stock-trading floor and later became
          Goldman's first strader, a hybrid role that combined risk-taking trader and tech whiz.
          He helped lead the development of Marquee, which allows clients to trade, manage risk and access
          Goldman's data and research without picking up the phone.               
                                                                                  
          Mr. Korn will remain an adviser to Marquee and work with Goldman executives evaluating and investing in
          financial-technology companies, people familiar with the matter said.   
          Document J000000020200204eg240006m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WorldNews:BusinessesPressForMoreTalksToEndTariffs                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          World News: Businesses Press For More Talks To End Tariffs              
          By Katy Stech Ferek and Timothy Puko                                    
          630 words                                                               
          16 January 2020                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A7                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          WASHINGTON -- U.S. business leaders generally applauded the signing of a U.S.-China trade pact but
          stressed the need to keep negotiations going on an accord that could result in a lifting of tariffs on Chinese
          imports.                                                                
          Corporate executives see the deal as a sign of de-escalation that can improve conditions for investment and
          raise hopes for a more comprehensive truce to come.                     
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive David Solomon said the deal signing has helped contribute "to a
          supportive market-making backdrop relative to a year ago." A lawyer for Intel Corp., the largest U.S. chip
          maker, said he hoped the deal would lead to greater trade cooperation between the U.S. and China. Boeing
          Co. Chief Executive David Calhoun said leaders who came together are "building a fair and mutually
          beneficial trading relationship."                                       
          Joe Hinrichs, Ford Motor Co.'s president of automotive, said the Detroit auto maker is "encouraged by the
          efforts of both governments to resolve remaining issues through continued negotiations."
          Trade groups that represent businesses in Washington, D.C., joined the chorus. "We commend both
          governments for staying the course and taking this important step to rebuild trust and restore some stability in
          the world's most important commercial relationship," said U.S. Chamber of Commerce Chief Executive
          Thomas J. Donohue. "This deal provides much needed certainty to American businesses as they begin the
          new year."                                                              
          President Trump's tariffs remain on roughly $370 billion of Chinese-made items, though he recently agreed to
          cut the tariff rate in half, to 7.5% from 15%, for some categories of goods. At the signing Wednesday, he
          promised to remove the tariffs if the U.S. and China can reach a deal on more broad-sweeping economic
          policy changes in the next round of negotiations.                       
          "The work isn't done yet," said Craig Allen, president of the US-China Business Council. "Implementation of
          the agreement will be critically important. Moreover, the phase one agreement should be swiftly followed by
          continued phase two negotiations on remaining issues."                  
          Cinnamon Rogers, executive vice president of advocacy for the Computing Technology Industry Association,
          said the deal "signals a turning point for the U.S. tech sector." It includes stronger protections -- and
          punishments -- for the theft of American technology, while making it easier for U.S. businesses to convince
          authorities to initiate a criminal investigation in China when violations occur. She urged the administration to
          keep pushing forward on robust enforcement of China's commitments and toward a second deal that sets
          terms for broader reforms.                                              
          "It all sounds great in theory," said Dan Harris, a Seattle lawyer whose firm advises companies on operating
          in China. "The problem is, China has a long history of putting very good-looking things into law, especially its
          intellectual-property laws, and then not following through when it doesn't want to."
          While electronics companies stand to benefit from lighter tariffs, the Trump administration has shown no sign
          that it would ease restrictions on sales of chips to some of China's largest companies, which have hurt chip
          companies' revenues.                                                    
          An index of major semiconductor stocks was down more than 1% at the market's close Wednesday, despite a
          market uptick after the agreement.                                      
          Business leaders have been vocal about their opposition to tariffs since President Trump threatened to
          impose them in early 2018 and through several waves of tariff increases that followed. The tariffs have hit the
          retail sector especially hard.                                          
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "The trade war won't be over until all of these tariffs are gone," said National Retail Federation President
          Matthew Shay, who attended the signing.                                 
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Asa Fitch and Theo Francis contributed to this article.                 
          Document J000000020200116eg1g0003i                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                