                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them? Some
          security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect th... ................................................................................ 2
          For American Express, Rewards Get a Little Less Costly........................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity(ASpecialReport)---VirtualCreditCards:WhatAreTheyAndShouldYouUseThem?Somesecurityexpertssaythecardscanhelpshoppersprotectth...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Cybersecurity (A Special Report) --- Virtual Credit Cards: What Are They And Should You Use Them?
          Some security experts say the cards can help shoppers protect themselves from online fraud
          By Cheryl Winokur Munk                                                  
          1,305 words                                                             
          27 November 2023                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          R1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Trying to keep the bad guys from stealing your credit-card number? Consider using a virtual card for online or
          phone purchases.                                                        
          Customers of credit-card firms such as Capital One, Citibank and American Express can generate a
          virtual-card number for an individual purchase when they are concerned about the security of using their
          permanent-card number. This free service uses regular credit-card accounts to generate unique numbers,
          card-verification codes and expiration dates.                           
          Virtual credit cards have existed for many years, but many consumers and business owners haven't used
          them. Now, as online fraud and security breaches are on the rise, virtual credit cards are an underused tool
          that can help shoppers protect themselves, some security experts say.   
          Here are answers to frequently asked questions consumers may have about virtual cards:
          Why should I consider a virtual card?                                   
                                                                                  
          The primary reason: Virtual cards can reduce the damage done by fraud. They come with the same
          protections against fraud that plastic comes with; federal law says consumers aren't liable for more than $50
          in charges that result from lost or stolen credit-card information. But the time and energy expended to replace
          a compromised card can be a hassle, especially if it is used for automated payments.
          "Think about how much damage you would have to repair," says Rajendran Murthy, associate professor at
          the Rochester Institute of Technology's Saunders College of Business.   
          Issuers, merchants and financial institutions lost $32.34 billion to credit-card fraud in 2021, with the U.S.
          accounting for slightly more than one-third of the losses, according to the Nilson Report, a research
          publication for the payments industry. One way credit cards can be stolen is when shoppers keep their card
          on file with an online retailer for convenience. If a thief gains access to the company's databases, the saved
          data is vulnerable. Virtual cards help reduce the chance your actual card data will be stolen.
          Murthy says virtual cards also can help people manage subscriptions without being concerned about auto
          renewal; simply use a virtual card that expires before the renewal date, he says. Virtual cards could also be
          handy for parents whose children play online games that feature in-game purchases. These charges can
          quickly add up if no one is monitoring the card. By setting a limit, a parent can better control this type of
          spending, without constantly monitoring their credit card.              
          How do I get a virtual card?                                            
          First, your card company has to offer the option for your particular card. Several banks offer virtual cards only
          to corporate cardholders or for select cards. Assuming the option is available, the next step will depend on
          the provider. Sometimes, virtual cards can be created using a link on the card issuer's website after the user
          logs in to his or her account. With other providers, users can access virtual cards through internet browser
          extensions, meaning the types of data, like passwords, addresses and phone numbers, that a browser can
          remember. As an example, Amex users who are logged into their Google account can select their virtual card
          number from the payment options drop-down and Chrome automatically populates the payment information.
          Users then continue to check out, possibly receiving a one-time verification code by text to confirm their
          identity before completing the purchase.                                
          How do I use a virtual card?                                            
          Using a virtual card can require some extra work for consumers. Before customers use the service to make
          an online purchase, some card providers require them to first log in to their credit-card account and receive
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          an authentication code. Once they are authenticated, they can shop using virtual cards. Some providers offer
          the option of using multiple virtual cards with different numbers that can vary by purchase limit. Other users
          have quick access to them through browser extensions.                   
          Are they all the same?                                                  
          While the basic concept is the same, virtual cards can function differently, depending on the provider. Some
          virtual cards are for single use, while others can be used multiple times and allow customers to set spending
          limits and expiration dates. With Citibank, for example, users can set a maximum duration of two years, or a
          specific ending month and year, up to two years. Users can also choose a daily spending limit. Capital One
          users can lock or unlock their virtual cards at any time.               
          Privacy.com offers another option for shopping with virtual cards. Use of its virtual service is free for up to 12
          new cards a month. Each card can be either a single-use card that automatically closes itself or a card that
          can be used only at one merchant. Otherwise, there are two fee-based models, one at $10 a month for up to
          36 new cards a month and the other for $25 a month for up to 60 cards in that time frame.
          Do I need one if I have a mobile wallet?                                
                                                                                  
          Consumers like mobile wallets offered by providers such as Apple and Google because they enter their card
          into the wallet, but their actual number doesn't get transmitted to the merchant. Mobile wallet users also
          generally have liability protection against verified unauthorized transactions. However, not all online
          merchants support this type of payment, so virtual cards can be a safe alternative, industry professionals say.
          Could my bank stop offering virtual cards?                              
          Yes, nothing is guaranteed, and some banks stopped offering virtual cards a few years back based on lack of
          customer demand and the availability of other payment options that are also considered safe, such as digital
          wallets. But industry professionals don't think virtual cards are going away -- and some banks may even
          decide to add the option, depending on customer demand and fraud trends.
          Banks "have to offer the same services and conveniences that digital wallets and digital-payment
          mechanisms provide," says Ari Lightman, professor of digital media and marketing at Carnegie Mellon
          University's Heinz College. Banks "don't want to be relegated to being a dumb pipe," where they simply move
          money but don't acquire any of the important customer data, he says.    
          How are banks making virtual cards easier to use?                       
                                                                                  
          Some card companies are starting to offer an option that "might bring virtual cards back to the forefront," says
          Odysseas Papadimitriou, CEO of WalletHub, which tracks credit-card trends.
          American Express, for example, has a partnership with Google that works with the Chrome browser.
          Consumers shopping from a Google Chrome browser on their desktop, Android mobile device or select
          Android apps can choose to use an Amex virtual-card number. They first have to enroll an eligible card in one
          of several ways outlined on the company's website.                      
          Capital One users have the option to get virtual-card numbers by using Eno, its 24/7 virtual assistant.
          Customers add the Eno browser extension and the assistant generates virtual-card numbers when it is time
          to pay. The only thing users need to do is fill in the shipping and billing information. Eno automatically saves
          virtual-card numbers for each merchant so they can be used again.       
          Some consumers may prefer using virtual cards in this manner since it is more seamless than logging into an
          account each time they want to make a purchase. They should, however, be sure their devices remain secure
          to mitigate the chance of unauthorized purchases.                       
          "This type of application for the virtual card has a bright future," Papadimitriou says.
                                                                                  
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Cheryl Winokur Munk is a writer in West Orange, N.J. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com.
          Document J000000020231127ejbr00002                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ForAmericanExpress,RewardsGetaLittleLessCostly                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          For American Express, Rewards Get a Little Less Costly                  
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          412 words                                                               
          23 October 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          The cost of credit-card rewards has risen a lot since the pandemic, as card companies looked to find ways to
          encourage people to keep swiping. That threatened to become a problem for card issuers, especially
          because people haven't been borrowing quite as much as they used to.    
          But things are improving on this front for American Express.            
          Variable customer-engagement expenses -- which include rewards and other perks -- represented about 40%
          of revenue in the third quarter, Amex reported on Friday. That is down from 41% a year before.
                                                                                  
          While 1 point might not seem like much, it can translate into hundreds of millions of dollars in additional profit
          annually. The company said on Friday that it expects those expenses to represent 42% of revenue overall
          this year, versus its guidance of 43% at the beginning of the year.     
          Amex said Friday that as it adds new points-redemption partners, this is changing the weighted average cost
          per point.                                                              
          In plain English, this means that retailers or other merchants that want to be a place where people can spend
          their points are willing to do it on terms that are a bit more favorable to Amex.
          When asked by analysts on Friday about the impact of the recent flap over the frequent-flier program at Amex
          partner Delta Air Lines, Amex Chief Executive Officer Stephen Squeri said "we haven't seen anything from a
          card spending. . .or from a card acquisition" point of view.            
                                                                                  
          Squeri said Delta card spending grew almost 20% year over year.         
          Delta had sparked customer complaints when it changed its program to reward bigger spenders rather than
          the most-frequent fliers. As part of Delta's changes to the program in response to customer concerns, some
          Amex cardholders will get a boost in airport lounge access.             
          On Friday, broader worries about the economy and interest rates hit bank stocks, with Amex falling around
          5% alongside peers. But rewards costs are a longer-term trend to keep an eye on, not just for card
          companies but for merchants as well.                                    
          If companies that facilitate purchasing, such as Amex or a buy-now-pay-later provider like Affirm, show they
          can help direct more spending to a partner merchant as well as help keep spending through them growing
          faster than spending overall, they would have some leverage going into a more challenging economy.
                                                                                  
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020231023ejan0000e                                      
          