                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Comerica Account Shortfall Is Probed ..................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ComericaAccountShortfallIsProbed                                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Comerica Account Shortfall Is Probed                                    
          By Gina Heeb                                                            
          548 words                                                               
          7 December 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Regulators are probing Comerica after a botched technology upgrade left the bank's wealth-management
          unit short millions of dollars.                                         
          The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has been looking into a wealth-management platform change at
          the bank that led to widespread errors on transactions for trust clients, according to people familiar with the
          matter and internal emails reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. Executives at the Texas-based bank told
          staff the errors could force them to potentially write down any funds they weren't able to chase down.
          The issues involved clients whose trust assets are administered by Comerica and managed by third parties
          such as Morgan Stanley or UBS. When clients withdraw funds from those trusts, Comerica advances the
          money and then gets reimbursed by the manager. For months after the May platform change, Comerica ran
          into issues pulling in the reimbursements, leaving a hole in its own funds, the people said.
          A general ledger account for wealth management was still "significantly overdrawn," managing director Brian
          Wolfe said in an email to employees Nov. 3. The fund snafu hasn't previously been reported.
          Comerica said its trust-administration unit had $175 billion in assets under administration as of Sept. 30.
          Some trust-account payments also failed to go through on the new platform, while others posted more than
          once or with the wrong amount of money, the people said. The bank halted wealth-management fees for
          some accounts, concerned that balances and the fees could have been distorted by the errors.
                                                                                  
          The platform has crashed repeatedly, including as recently as Tuesday.  
          Greg Carr, executive vice president of wealth management at Comerica, said the unit experienced "really
          standard issues that occur during a conversion of this significance" and that some of those issues had been
          resolved. No bank or client money was ever missing, he said.            
          "Following the conversion, it was challenging," he said, adding that the bank has worked "swiftly to remediate
          any and all of those issues."                                           
                                                                                  
          In the November email, Wolfe directed employees to try to collect the funds, warning they could be written off
          as losses at the end of the month if they weren't collected. Executives have internally expressed concerns
          that Comerica could face litigation from trust clients, the people said.
          Less than $500,000 has been written off so far, according to the bank.  
          Comerica, with $86 billion in assets, and other big regional banks have struggled this year under rising
          interest rates. The failure of three banks this spring led customers to pull funds from many regional
          institutions in search of safety, driving up costs for banks of all sizes. Comerica's profit dropped 28% from a
          year earlier in the third quarter.                                      
          That has made the competition for wealthy customers, like those in Comerica's trust business, even more
          fierce. But regional banks are behind megabanks on technology, especially when it comes to more complex
          businesses such as wealth management. Comerica's wealth-management unit makes up about 14% of its
          revenue and its profit was down nearly 17% in the third quarter.        
          The update that caused the issue has been planned for years but repeatedly put on hold after unsuccessful
          test runs, some of the people said.                                     
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020231207ejc70000p                                      
          