                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- What It's Like Inside Goldman When a Big Project Fails --- The Wall Street firm was looking to
          get out of consumer lending... .................................................................................................................................. 2
          Financial CEOs Are Mum on China At Hong Kong Panel........................................................................................ 5
                                                                                  
          Markets & Finance: Goldman Infrastructure Fund Raises $4 Billion........................................................................ 7
          No Bad News Is Good News For Goldman.............................................................................................................. 8
                                                                                  
          The Digest ................................................................................................................................................................ 9
          Business News: Goldman Sachs Passed on Higher Offer for GreenSky ............................................................. 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---WhatIt'sLikeInsideGoldmanWhenaBigProjectFails---TheWallStreetfirmwaslookingtogetoutofconsumerlending...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- What It's Like Inside Goldman When a Big Project Fails --- The Wall Street firm was
          looking to get out of consumer lending, once a big area of expansion. But Apple dumped it first.
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis                                                  
          1,429 words                                                             
          2 December 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          At an off-site in upstate New York last month, during a dinner lasting roughly three hours, Goldman Sachs
          Chief Executive David Solomon told partners that the firm had made some mistakes with consumer lending.
          But, he said, the business wasn't as bad as they thought and they didn't understand the details. He wouldn't
          tolerate partners trash-talking Goldman's decision to get into consumer lending, he told them.
          Goldman has known for a while that consumer lending wasn't really working out, and the bank has been
          looking for the exits. But it was Apple that sealed it. The tech giant recently sent a proposal to Goldman that
          would pull the plug on their credit-card partnership, the crown jewel of the business.
          The split will effectively bring an end to Goldman's once-grand plan to be a bank for the masses -- an
          experiment it began about a decade ago as a way to build something different after the global financial crisis.
          But the old and new never fit together. Engineering hires wooed from Silicon Valley grumbled about a stuffy
          culture. Executives in trading and investment banking, Goldman's traditional powerhouses, groused about the
          money-losing consumer endeavors.                                        
          In the fall of 2021, Goldman was forging ahead with plans to expand the consumer business. It was in the
          process of making a massive acquisition and was courting new credit-card partners. Solomon told deputies
          that if Goldman was going to be in the consumer business, it needed to go big.
          Still, even Solomon began to think the business was weighing Goldman down, according to people familiar
          with the matter. Shares were around $400 at the time, already near their record high, but shareholders had
          expressed skepticism to Goldman about its consumer plans. Solomon told colleagues he thought the stock
          could go much higher if Goldman was to get an outside investor for the consumer business.
          Goldman began talking to a private-equity firm, Silver Lake, to see whether it could spin the consumer
          business into a joint venture, according to people familiar with the matter. It called the plan Project Maryland,
          the "M" a reference to Marcus, the name for its consumer brand. Goldman code-named itself "Georgia," and
          Silver Lake was "South Carolina." The talks fell apart after the two sides couldn't agree on how much control
          each would have over the new venture.                                   
          There were plenty of reasons for Goldman's top brass to be on edge.     
          Goldman had agreed in 2021 to buy GreenSky, a lender that makes home-improvement loans, at a hefty
          price. Some executives had told Solomon that it wouldn't be a good fit. 
          Solomon had also been pushing for Goldman to expand into checking accounts. After top executives in the
          consumer business urged him not to, saying the bank should stay focused on a small number of products,
          Solomon told them they had no vision, according to people familiar with the matter.
          The Apple credit card went live in 2019 with great fanfare, promising cash rewards. The partnership had red
          flags from the outset.                                                  
          Goldman badly wanted to get that deal, and that meant accepting a number of unusual terms from Apple. For
          example, Goldman agreed not to charge late fees or sell customer data, trading away two massive streams of
          income.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          When Apple unveiled the credit card in 2019, it did so with a zinger. "Designed by Apple, not a bank," its ads
          chirped.                                                                
          Goldman partners complained that the firm was throwing good money after bad. Soon, that wasn't the only
          issue.                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In 2022, the Federal Reserve found problems with the bank's consumer business. It had concerns that
          Goldman didn't have proper monitoring and control systems.              
          That same year, Goldman disclosed that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was investigating its
          credit-card practices, including how the bank resolved billing disputes and refunded cardholders. Those
          probes continue.                                                        
          Employees in the consumer business were frustrated. They had been asking since at least 2019 for the bank
          to invest more money in the operations that handle customer complaints, according to people familiar with the
          matter.                                                                 
          Some also blamed Apple, at least privately, for the regulatory problems. Most card programs send out
          cardholders' bills on a rolling basis throughout the month. Apple insisted that its cardholders get their bills at
          the beginning of each month. That means Goldman customer-service employees are flooded with complaints
          and requests during the first few days of every month, making it hard for them to keep up.
          Adding to the tension: Investment banking fell off a cliff in 2022, both at Goldman and at rivals, hurt by rising
          interest rates and a big drop in stock prices. Goldman's usual power brokers became more incensed that the
          bank was spending money on a consumer business they didn't want. Later, Goldman would disclose that a
          big chunk of its consumer-lending operations had lost billions of dollars.
          The internal noise to kill the consumer experiment grew. Solomon's No. 2, bank president John Waldron,
          ordered a review of the entire consumer operation.                      
                                                                                  
          At a management-committee meeting last fall, Marc Nachmann, one of the most senior partners at Goldman,
          blasted another Goldman partner, Stephanie Cohen, about her business, according to people familiar with the
          matter. He told Cohen, who was coleading the consumer push, that she wasn't making sense, according to
          people who were present.                                                
          Some committee members looked on uncomfortably.                         
          Cohen had been a star in Goldman's investment bank, and Solomon had tapped her two years before to help
          run the consumer unit. She inherited a troubled business. At the management-committee meeting blowup,
          she had just returned from a personal leave.                            
                                                                                  
          There were other instances where Nachmann criticized Cohen's business, people familiar with the matter
          said. Solomon at times spoke up in defense of the business.             
          While Cohen was away, Solomon and his deputies decided to reorganize the entire bank, including her
          domain. The bank announced in October 2022 that Cohen would be head of a new unit called Platform
          Solutions. That unit would include GreenSky and the bank's two credit-card partnerships -- the one with Apple
          and another with General Motors.                                        
          The deposits -- arguably the most enviable part of the consumer franchise -- would move to another new unit
          called asset and wealth management, run by Nachmann.                    
          What Goldman did made clear to the world: It announced, finally, that it was scaling back its Main Street
          ambitions.                                                              
                                                                                  
          The Waldron-ordered review had concluded that the consumer business couldn't produce the returns that
          Goldman wanted within the near term, according to people familiar with the matter.
          By early this year, Goldman executives began looking for ways out of the Apple partnership, and even
          approached American Express to gauge their interest. Still doubting, they forged ahead anyway with new
          Apple products. A savings account launched in the spring, as well as a buy now, pay later service.
          One worst-case internal projection: The savings account would lose money for the next 10 years after
          operating expenses were factored in.                                    
                                                                                  
          Now, the consumer unit is quickly disappearing piece by piece.          
          The checking accounts never materialized. The bank has stopped originating personal loans and sold off
          most of those balances. It is unloading GreenSky at a steep loss. In November, it informed employees that it
          will move to unload its credit-card partnership with GM.                
          Cohen went back on leave in June. Some employees who were once tasked with consumer lending have
          been moved to focus on fixing regulatory issues.                        
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The bank for now is still responsible for the Apple card and the GM card, an arrangement that includes
          providing customer service. Goldman employees will also have to prepare for transferring balances to the
          company or companies that take over the cards, a process that needs employees with experience.
          At a meeting last month, when the bank told employees it would be unloading the GM card, it offered them a
          sweetener to stay. Many will be eligible for pay equal to one year of their compensation if their jobs are
          eliminated. People familiar with the matter said the same will apply for employees who work on the Apple
          card.                                                                   
          As for Apple, it wants out within the next roughly 12 to 15 months.     
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Laura Cooper contributed to this article.                               
          Document J000000020231202ejc20003v                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          FinancialCEOsAreMumonChinaAtHongKongPanel                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Financial CEOs Are Mum on China At Hong Kong Panel                      
          By Elaine Yu                                                            
          991 words                                                               
          8 November 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          HONG KONG -- When some of Wall Street's most powerful executives assembled in Hong Kong this week,
          one topic was noticeable by its absence: China.                         
          The chief executives of U.S. banks including Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were in the city
          on Tuesday for the Global Financial Leaders' Investment Summit, where they rubbed shoulders with local
          government officials and senior Chinese regulators. They spoke about broad topics such as financial stability,
          interest rates and capital markets.                                     
          But U.S. bankers said almost nothing about mainland China -- and even less about the geopolitical tensions
          that have made their jobs harder. The relationship between the U.S. and China has worsened in recent years,
          and Wall Street banks have come under political pressure to reduce their links to the world's second-largest
          economy.                                                                
          "The big discussion -- I think maybe not officially, but obviously in private discussions -- is going to be the
          Chinese-U.S. freeze and what does that really mean for growth prospects and general opportunities for these
          banks," said Mark Williams, a specialist in capital markets and risk management at Boston University.
          Wall Street banks are being forced to tread carefully on China. They have for years considered the country an
          important growth market, but the costs are rising: China's tighter control of information has made due
          diligence harder, a backlash by American politicians has increased reputational risks, and the shaky
          reopening of China's economy has raised questions about its decadeslong growth story.
          The amount of money banks can earn from Chinese clients has also dwindled: A sharp reduction in overseas
          listings from mainland Chinese companies has reduced the fees available to investment banks.
          Most of the discussions steered clear of these questions. Morgan Stanley Chief Executive James Gorman
          and UBS Group Chairman Colm Kelleher joined a panel on financial stability. Goldman Sachs CEO David
          Solomon talked about the U.S. banking system, among other things. Citigroup CEO Jane Fraser took part in
          a discussion later in the day that largely focused on technology.       
          The heads of investment firms were the first Western executives to discuss mainland China. When Carlyle
          Group Co-Chairman David Rubenstein asked Citadel founder Ken Griffin for his assessment of the country,
          he complimented the strength of managers in China and said it led the way in areas such as solar power and
          electric vehicles.                                                      
          "If you're a global investor, you've got to be watching and investing here in China," Griffin said.
                                                                                  
          Noel Quinn, the chief executive of British bank HSBC, joined an afternoon panel that focused on the Greater
          Bay Area, a project linking Hong Kong and parts of southern China. He was joined by Ge Haijiao, the
          chairman of Bank of China, and Neil Shen, founding partner of Sequoia China, which is separating from
          venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital and rebranding as HongShan.        
          The broad nature of these discussions was in line with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority's plans for the
          event, said Eric Pan, president of the Washington-based Investment Company Institute, an industry group.
          "The intellectual environment, the networking, the idea that you come to Hong Kong and you can talk about
          all these global issues -- it's very consistent with their desire to be the leading global financial center in Asia,"
          Pan said.                                                               
          That desire has been challenged in recent years, particularly after Hong Kong's strict approach to Covid-19
          turned off some foreign executives and encouraged new entrants to look elsewhere. Several companies that
          considered setting up in Hong Kong turned to Singapore instead. In the middle of 2022, the number of
          American companies operating in the city fell to its lowest level in nearly two decades.
          Page 5 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Foreign investors have also reduced their exposure to Hong Kong's stock market, where many of China's
          biggest companies are listed. The city's benchmark Hang Seng Index is down more than 10% this year.
          John Lee, Hong Kong's chief executive, said the city would remain the gateway between mainland China and
          global markets, thanks in part to its status as the only jurisdiction in China that uses common law. But he
          acknowledged threats facing the territory. "Geopolitical risks continue to proliferate, squeezing international
          trade and complicating global supply chains. Hong Kong, a free and open economy, is hardly immune to
          global economic headwinds," he said.                                    
          Lee has been under U.S. sanctions since August 2020, after Beijing pushed through a national-security law
          for Hong Kong that the U.S. government said undermined Hong Kong's autonomy.
          Senior officials from China's central bank and financial regulators also addressed the visiting executives.
          Zhang Qingsong, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, talked about the property sector and local
          government debt, two causes of concern for foreign investors.           
          More than 90 CEOs and group chairpeople from banks, asset managers and other investment firms attended
          the summit at the Four Seasons hotel, city officials said.              
                                                                                  
          On Monday, authorities welcomed the executives with a banquet at the new harborfront Palace Museum,
          where dishes such as "char siu"-style marinated salmon pastrami with osmanthus honey dressing and red
          date sponge paired with goji berry cream, were served.                  
          The financial summit is part of a busy calendar for Hong Kong at the moment. A similar event for large
          investors will take place on Wednesday. The city hosted a fintech conference last week. The China-United
          States Exchange Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Hong Kong set up to build relationships between the
          two countries, is organizing a two-day forum on U.S.-China relations starting Thursday.
          Hong Kong is also hosting the Gay Games this month, the first time the event has been held in Asia. The
          city's politicians have clashed over the games, with some conservative lawmakers calling for a top
          government adviser who supported the games to resign.                   
          Document J000000020231108ejb80000x                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Markets&Finance:GoldmanInfrastructureFundRaises$4Billion                
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Markets & Finance: Goldman Infrastructure Fund Raises $4 Billion        
          By Rod James                                                            
          273 words                                                               
          24 October 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs Group's asset management business has collected $4 billion to invest in midsize
          infrastructure assets, as investors look to take advantage of a favorable political and economic climate for the
          sector.                                                                 
          Goldman Sachs Asset Management closed West Street Infrastructure Partners IV at the fund's target and has
          already committed $2.3 billion across eight investments, the New York-based manager said. Goldman Sachs
          oversaw a total of more than $2.7 trillion in assets as of June 30.     
          Investments in the new fund include Synthica Energy, a Cincinnati-based developer of renewable gas plants,
          Verdalia Bioenergy, a developer and operator of European biomethane plants, and Gridstor, a developer and
          operator of utility-grade battery storage projects in the U.S., Goldman said.
          The new fund attracted capital mainly from institutional investors, with the balance made up by high-net-worth
          investors, Goldman and its employees, the bank said. The fund's predecessor, West Street Infrastructure
          Partners III, closed in 2017 with $2.5 billion, a spokesman confirmed.  
          Goldman said it is investing the fund across infrastructure subsectors that include energy transition, digital
          infrastructure, transport, logistics and social infrastructure.         
          The infrastructure asset class stands to benefit from trends, including the transition to a lower-carbon
          economy, digital transformation and shifting demographics, "each of which requires very significant
          mobilization of private capital," said Goldman's co-head of infrastructure, Scott Lebovitz, in announcing the
          close of the fund.                                                      
          Private infrastructure investors in the U.S. are also positioned for a boost from the roughly $1 trillion
          infrastructure law passed in 2021.                                      
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020231024ejao00019                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          NoBadNewsIsGoodNewsForGoldman                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          No Bad News Is Good News For Goldman                                    
          By Rob Copeland                                                         
          380 words                                                               
          18 October 2023                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          4                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          The Wall Street bank disclosed $2 billion in quarterly profit, just above expectations and propelling the bank
          further in its turnaround.                                              
          In what at this point counts as merry news for a thrashed Wall Street giant, Goldman Sachs on Tuesday
          reported a quarterly profit that came in just above expectations, suggesting that the bank may be on track to
          extricate itself from its consumer-lending woes.                        
          The bank's third-quarter profit fell about a third from a year earlier, to $2.1 billion, though that drop was
          expected. Trading revenue stayed steady, an encouraging sign given the slowdown in such activities across
          Wall Street in the face of a potential recession.                       
          ''We're confident that the work we're doing now provides us a much stronger platform for 2024,'' the bank's
          chief executive, David M. Solomon, said in a statement.                 
          It has been a year to forget for Goldman and Mr. Solomon. The bank continues to write off losses from its
          money-losing effort to build a Main Street-focused operation, an initiative that began under Goldman's prior
          chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, and accelerated under Mr. Solomon. 
          Mr. Solomon has contended with what amounts to a staff revolt, by the buttoned-up standards of a Wall
          Street bank, as scores of prominent partners have departed and others have complained about his unyielding
          management style.                                                       
                                                                                  
          Last week, Goldman made good on its promise to offload at a steep loss a ''buy now, pay later'' firm,
          GreenSky, that it had bought less than two years ago.                   
          Other banks that have reported third-quarter earnings have shown off a smooth ride. On Tuesday, Bank of
          America reported a 10 percent rise in profit. Last week, JPMorgan Chase reported a quarterly profit jump of
          35 percent, while Wells Fargo and Citigroup beat analyst expectations.  
          Goldman's stock was flat in premarket trading after the release of the quarterly results. Shares are down 9
          percent this year and off roughly 25 percent from the record high set in 2021.
                                                                                  
          David M. Solomon, Goldman Sachs's C.E.O., has had a tough stretch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
          MCDERMID/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B4.            
          Document NYTF000020231018ejai00042                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheDigest                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          The Digest                                                              
          By Rob Copeland and The Associated Press                                
          501 words                                                               
          13 October 2023                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          FINANCE                                                                 
          Goldman to Sell Lender After a Brief Ownership                          
          Goldman Sachs said on Wednesday that it would offload GreenSky, a major player in the ''buy now, pay
          later'' lending sector, less than two years after buying the company, in the latest hit to its consumer-finance
          ambition.                                                               
          Goldman will take an immediate loss from the transaction in its third-quarter earnings, which are due out next
          week. The bank is selling GreenSky to a group of money managers, including the private-equity firms Sixth
          Street and K.K.R. The selling price was not disclosed.                  
                                                                                  
          The outlook for both Goldman and the buy now, pay later industry was vastly different in 2021 when the
          bank paid $1.7 billion for GreenSky, which focuses on home improvement loans. The New York bank was
          reaping bumper profits and expanding in an effort to attract new customers who are less wealthy than
          Goldman's typical clientele. Rising interest rates, however, have crimped the sector. ROB COPELAND
          AIRLINES                                                                
          Summer Surge Lifts Delta To a $1.11 Billion Profit                      
                                                                                  
          Planes packed with summer travelers boosted Delta Air Lines to a $1.11 billion profit in the third quarter, and
          the carrier said Thursday that it expected revenue to keep rising into the holiday season.
          Profit was up 59 percent from a year earlier, as strong ticket sales, especially for premium seats and
          international flights, helped the airline shrug off higher labor costs. 
          Delta increased its passengercarrying capacity an aggressive 16 percent and was able to fill all those extra
          seats. Travelers flew 64 billion miles on the airline in the quarter, a 17 percent increase, and they filled 88
          percent of the seats on the average flight, a point higher than last summer.
                                                                                  
          Revenue from ticket sales in the main cabin grew 12 percent -- and 17 percent for premium seating. Money
          from Delta's loyalty program soared 21 percent. Quarterly revenue rose 11 percent to $15.49 billion.
          ASSOCIATED PRESS                                                        
          REGULATORY                                                              
          OSHA Recommends Fines Over Battery Plant Safety                         
                                                                                  
          U.S. investigators on Thursday proposed $270,000 in fines for a General Motors and LG Energy Solution joint
          venture battery plant in Warren, Ohio, for safety and health violations.
          Occupational Safety and Health Administration investigators examining the cause of a March explosion and
          fire at the Ultium Cells plant prompted the agency to issue 19 safety and health violations, 17 of them serious.
                                                                                  
          OSHA inspectors found the company exposed workers to hazards by failing to train them on safety and
          emergency response procedures and did not comply with federal standards for personal protective equipment
          use.                                                                    
          Ultium Cells said on Thursday it had taken ''safety seriously and have requested a hearing with OSHA, which
          is the next step in this process.''                                     
          Page 9 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          OSHA said it had also issued a hazard alert letter asking the company to voluntarily reduce accumulations of
          metal dust. REUTERS                                                     
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.
          Document NYTF000020231013ejad0004z                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:GoldmanSachsPassedonHigherOfferforGreenSky                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Goldman Sachs Passed on Higher Offer for GreenSky        
          By Peter Rudegeair, AnnaMaria Andriotis and Laura Cooper                
          343 words                                                               
          13 October 2023                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          The steep loss Goldman Sachs is facing from its agreement to sell specialty lender GreenSky could have
          been smaller.                                                           
          A group led by fintechPagaya Technologies, which specializes in nontraditional underwriting that helps
          lenders approve more consumers for loans, offered roughly $700 million to buy GreenSky, according to
          people familiar with the matter.                                        
          But Goldman spurned the offer and instead entered into exclusive discussions around mid-September with
          the group led by Sixth Street that sealed a deal yesterday to buy the business with a bid in the neighborhood
          of $500 million.                                                        
          After The Wall Street Journal reported that the Sixth Street group was in exclusive conversations with
          Goldman, the Pagaya group told Goldman it was willing to increase its offer, people familiar with the matter
          said. Goldman didn't respond to the offer.                              
          Pagaya then contacted Sixth Street and offered to buy GreenSky from the investment firm once it closed the
          deal. That offer also was rebuffed.                                     
          Goldman executives say that they passed on the higher offer in large part because they had less confidence
          in the Pagaya-led group's ability to complete the deal in a timely manner.
                                                                                  
          People familiar with the matter say financing was in place for the Pagaya offer.
          As part of a deal with Pagaya, which has a market value of about $1 billion, private-equity firms Apollo Global
          Management and Blackstone would have acquired GreenSky's loan portfolio.
                                                                                  
          Goldman disclosed on Wednesday that it expects the sale of GreenSky to result in a hit of 19 cents a share to
          the bank's third-quarter results.                                       
          Goldman bought GreenSky, which specializes in extending loans to consumers for home renovations, for
          roughly $1.7 billion last year, hoping it would help the Wall Street giant be a bigger competitor in consumer
          lending. Soon after it closed on the acquisition, Goldman began pulling back on its consumer-lending efforts
          amid internal concerns about its strategy and the money being spent on it.
          Document J000000020231013ejad00017                                      
                                                                                  
          