                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          The Digest ................................................................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheDigest                                                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          The Digest                                                              
          By Reuters                                                              
          403 words                                                               
          16 December 2023                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          INTERNATIONAL                                                           
          House Panel Subpoenas BlackRock, State Street                           
          The House Judiciary Committee said it had subpoenaed BlackRock Inc. and State Street Corp. in its
          environmental, social and governance investigation.                     
                                                                                  
          BlackRock already drew scrutiny from a House committee in August that the New York-based asset manager
          was facilitating investments into blacklisted Chinese companies. BlackRock and State Street did not
          immediately respond to requests for comment.                            
          House Judiciary Chairman Jim Jordan earlier sent a subpoena to asset manager Vanguard, and the company
          said it was ''committed to working constructively with lawmakers and has cooperated with the committee's
          requests, including producing tens of thousands of pages of relevant documents to date.''
          Bloomberg News, which first reported the development, said the panel is looking into allegations that the
          firms colluded in committing to make the investments. REUTERS           
          DEALS                                                                   
                                                                                  
          Signature Company DocuSign Explores Sale                                
          DocuSign is working with advisers to explore a sale, which could be one of the largest leveraged buyouts in
          recent times, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday, citing people familiar with the matter.
                                                                                  
          Shares of the company rose nearly 15% to $64.53 following the news.     
          The company, which provides electronic signature products, could attract interest from private equity firms
          and technology companies, the report said.                              
                                                                                  
          DocuSign declined to comment on the Wall Street Journal report.         
          The company has a market capitalization of $11.44 billion, based on its last closing price, according to data
          from LSEG.                                                              
                                                                                  
          Discussions are in early stages and there are no guarantees a deal will be reached, the Wall Street Journal
          report said. REUTERS                                                    
          CONSUMER GOODS                                                          
          Yogurt Maker Chobani Buys Coffee Company                                
                                                                                  
          Greek yogurt maker Chobani said on Friday that it had bought ready-to-drink coffee maker La Colombe for
          $900 million to expand its beverage business.                           
          Chobani said it bought the Philadelphia-based company through a combination of a newly issued $550 million
          term loan, cash on hand and in exchange of Keurig Dr Pepper's minority equity stake in the coffee brewer.
                                                                                  
          Last year, Chobani withdrew its plans for an initial public offering in the United States after having delayed its
          listing plans earlier. The company has been expanding its product categories by adding products such as
          coffee creamers.                                                        
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          La Colombe will continue to operate as an independent brand, the companies said. REUTERS
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) This article appeared in print on page B2.
          Document NYTF000020231216ejcg0004e                                      
                                                                                  
          