                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          When Can We Go From This to This? ..................................................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WhenCanWeGoFromThistoThis?                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          When Can We Go From This to This?                                       
          By Julie Creswell, Gillian Friedman and Peter Eavis                     
          1,620 words                                                             
          4 March 2021                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          A year and a pandemic ago, over 100,000 people filled the central business district in Charlotte, N.C., pouring
          out of offices, including several recently built skyscrapers, and into restaurants, bars and sports venues. Then
          as the coronavirus sent employees to their homes, much of the city center quickly went quiet and dark.
          The return of those employees to their offices has been halting and difficult. Last fall, Fifth Third Bank began
          bringing back workers, but soon reversed course. LendingTree, which is moving from the suburbs to the city,
          is waiting for the end of the school year. Wells Fargo has delayed its return to the office several times, telling
          its employees recently that they will continue to work remotely through at least May 1. And Duke Energy will
          bring some employees back in June, and most of the 6,000 people at its headquarters in September, when
          children should be able to go back to schools.                          
          Corporate executives around the country are wrestling with how to reopen offices as the pandemic starts to
          loosen its grip. Businesses -- and many employees -- are eager to return to some kind of normal work life,
          going back to the office, grabbing lunch at their favorite restaurant or stopping for drinks after work. But the
          world has changed, and many managers and workers alike acknowledge that there are advantages to remote
          work.                                                                   
          While coronavirus cases are declining and vaccinations are rising, many companies have not committed to a
          time and strategy for bringing employees back. The most important variable, many executives said, is how
          long it will take for most employees to be vaccinated. President Biden on Tuesday said that the United States
          was ''on track'' to have enough vaccines for every adult by the end of May.
          Another major consideration revolves around the children of workers. Companies say they can't make firm
          decisions until they know when local schools will reopen for in-person learning.
          Then there is a larger question: Does it make sense to go back to the way things were before the pandemic
          given that people have become accustomed to the rhythms of remote work? 
          ''Everyone has different comfort levels with coming back,'' said Chuck McShane, a senior vice president at
          the Charlotte Regional Business Alliance, an organization that has helped lure businesses to the area. ''For
          some companies, it depends on the type of work you're doing and whether you can remain at home. But a
          concern about continued remote work is, how do entry-level workers get socialized into the office culture?''
          About a quarter of employees across the country are going into offices these days, according to Kastle
          Systems, an office security firm that gets data from 3,600 buildings in the United States.
          Many companies, paying to rent empty office space, are eager for that number to rise. Their executives
          believe having employees working side by side improves collaboration, supports the development of younger
          employees and nurtures the heart and soul of any company -- its culture.
          That's why some managers like Mark Rose, chief executive of Avison Young, a commercial property
          consulting and property management firm based in Chicago with offices around the world, are asking
          employees to return to the office in April.                             
          ''You're not going to be fired or written up if you don't come back, but it is the expectation that, subject to local
          laws, and subject to your individual issues, that you start to make your way back,'' Mr. Rose said about his
          5,000 employees. ''It absolutely is going to be an expectation.''       
                                                                                  
          A mass return to the office would, of course, be a boon for commercial real estate companies like Avison
          Young. Landlords, whose revenues are under threat as corporations move out or reduce the amount of space
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          they rent, would breathe a sigh of relief. Many tenants have more space than they need. In Manhattan, the
          amount of sublet office space available to rent surged nearly 50 percent last year and it is currently 27
          percent of all available space, the highest share since the period right after the 2008 financial crisis,
          according to Savills.                                                   
          Moreover, a return to the office would help revive city centers that have been ghost towns for months.
          Restaurants and bars could start hiring again and returning commuters could generate much-needed revenue
          for struggling transit systems.                                         
          The course of the pandemic has largely dictated office attendance. That number crashed in March and April
          last year as the pandemic took hold and started slowly rising in the late spring, according to Kastle. Another
          surge in infections after Thanksgiving drove occupancy down but it appears to be on an upswing.
          There are big regional differences. In large cities in Texas, more than a third of workers are back, while the
          New York, San Francisco and Chicago areas remain below 20 percent.      
          Some of these regional differences might be explained by how people get to work.
                                                                                  
          ''In places where people are commuting through public transportation, we know that makes people much
          more vulnerable to Covid because of the sheer presence of others, compared to if you're commuting in your
          own car,'' said Tsedal Neeley, a Harvard Business School professor who studies remote work.
          Some companies that have begun trying to get workers back to the office -- like Vivint, a home security
          business based in Provo, Utah, that has more than 10,000 employees across the country -- say they are
          doing so on a voluntary basis.                                          
          Vivint is allowing 40 percent of its 4,000 employees in Utah to return, though only about 20 percent have
          chosen to do so regularly. The company has required some call center workers who are ''struggling to deliver
          on their calls'' and need additional coaching to come in.               
                                                                                  
          To accommodate social distancing, Vivint has restricted access to each building to a single entrance, where
          employees have their temperature taken. Signs remind employees to wear masks at all times, and the
          company has limited capacity in conference rooms.                       
          Vivint also has an on-site clinic that has been offering 15-minute rapid virus tests to employees and their
          families. ''It's super important for our ability to give peace of mind to our employees,'' said Starr Fowler, senior
          vice president for human resources.                                     
          The company hopes to use the clinic to distribute coronavirus vaccines to its workers, when Utah allows it to
          do so.                                                                  
          Some businesses like Davis Wright Tremaine, a Seattle-based law firm, have said workers who want to
          return to the office must be vaccinated. But others like Duke Energy have said they are trying to encourage,
          not require, vaccinations.                                              
          As an incentive for employees to get the vaccine, Duke Energy is providing ''health reward points'' for
          vaccinated employees, similar to points employees receive for getting a yearly physical or not using tobacco,
          said Neil Nissan, a Duke spokesman. Those points can reduce employees' monthly health insurance costs,
          he added.                                                               
          The company said the pandemic would most likely have a lasting effect on how it operates.
                                                                                  
          ''We're going to have a hybrid working model,'' Mr. Nissan said. ''Some days, an employee will be in the office
          and other days, they'll be working remotely. It gives employees flexibility and keeps everyone from being
          there at the same time.''                                               
          More than 55 percent of people surveyed by the consulting firm PwC late last year said they would prefer to
          work remotely at least three days a week after the pandemic recedes. But their bosses appear to have
          somewhat different preferences -- 68 percent of employers said they believed employees needed to be in the
          office at least three days a week to maintain corporate culture.        
          Salesforce, the software company based in San Francisco, recently earned praise from some people when it
          said that most of its employees would be able to come into the office one to three days a week -- an approach
          the company described as ''flex'' -- once the pandemic is no longer a public health threat. The company would
          not say whether it now needed less office space.                        
          But other companies ultimately want all or nearly all employees back for most of the week -- and are telling
          workers that their careers could suffer if they don't return.           
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Rapid7, a cybersecurity company based in Boston, will expect workers to come back to the office at least
          three days a week when it determines that it is safe to do so.          
          ''We really believe that our in-person workplaces foster our culture and our core values,'' said Christina
          Luconi, the company's chief people officer.                             
          Employees who choose not to return to the office could face professional repercussions, she said.
                                                                                  
          ''We're not saying we're going to stagnate your career intentionally,'' Ms. Luconi added. ''But if you're the odd
          person out when everybody else is back together, that may be challenging for you.''
          Still, this discussion is somewhat theoretical. Rapid7 has not yet set a return-to-office date and Ms. Luconi
          said it would wait to do so until vaccines were widely available. The company is leaning toward allowing only
          vaccinated employees back into the office.                              
          An empty office in Manhattan, top, where sublet space available to rent surged nearly 50 percent last year,
          and Slack's busy San Francisco headquarters in 2017. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE ETHEREDGE FOR
          THE NEW YORK TIMES; CARLOS CHAVARRÍA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Vivint, a home
          security business based in Provo, Utah, is allowing 40 percent of its employees to return voluntarily.
          (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM RAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6)                    
          Document NYTF000020210304eh3400046                                      
                                                                                  
          