                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Agencies Temper Cost-Cut Efforts At Wells Fargo ................................................................................................. 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          AgenciesTemperCost-CutEffortsAtWellsFargo                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Agencies Temper Cost-Cut Efforts At Wells Fargo                         
          By Ben Eisen                                                            
          755 words                                                               
          18 February 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Plenty of companies are cutting costs to weather the pandemic recession. Few are trying to do so while also
          spending billions of dollars to satisfy their regulators.               
          These are the tasks facing Wells Fargo & Co. Chief Executive Charles Scharf, who is attempting to slash at
          least $8 billion from the San Francisco bank's annual budget. The bank's expenses last year were $57.63
          billion.                                                                
          Wells Fargo is simultaneously shelling out money to remake the vast risk-and-control systems that regulators
          have said were inadequate to catch the fake-account scandal that got it in hot water more than four years
          ago. Wells is still subject to 10 regulatory penalties known as consent orders. The harshest, from the Federal
          Reserve, has capped the bank's growth for three years.                  
          How Wells Fargo fixes its back-end systems -- and whether that clashes with other priorities -- might hold
          clues for competitors as well. Wells came into the pandemic in worse financial shape than most large banks,
          but others must also modernize their controls while managing through the recession. Citigroup Inc. was hit
          with a $400 million fine over its own controls last year. The bank has been hiring key staff and making
          significant investments. JPMorgan Chase & Co. paid $250 million last year as a result of deficiencies in its
          internal controls, which it has remedied.                               
          Mr. Scharf also must chart a different path than his predecessors at Wells. They, too, tried to cut costs and
          re-envision the bank while under regulatory restraints. Years later, those tasks remain largely unresolved.
          Mr. Scharf has said the bank will refocus on the U.S. market and double down on its consumer and
          commercial businesses. Cost cuts will come from most corners of the bank, including closing branches,
          automating loan underwriting, consolidating offices and cutting staff.  
          But regulators loom large in the decision-making. Last fall, Amanda Norton, Wells Fargo's risk chief, was
          planning to cut staff in her group alongside the bank's other divisions. But during conversations with the
          bank's regulators last fall, overseers questioned whether she could do so while still meeting regulatory
          commitments, according to people familiar with the exchange. The questions prompted Ms. Norton and Mr.
          Scharf to reverse course and put the group's layoffs on ice, the people said.
          Wells Fargo executives say the top priority is to fix the bank's relationship with its regulators. "That takes
          precedence over everything," said Mike Santomassimo, chief financial officer, on a Jan. 15 call with reporters.
          "We are going to continue to spend whatever it takes to make sure that we do that in the right way."
          Mr. Scharf has said Wells Fargo runs less efficiently than peers and hopes to book $3.7 billion of savings in
          2021. But after investments in risk and controls, and other areas, just $1.5 billion of it will flow to the bottom
          line this year, the bank said in January.                               
          A group formed last year is reviewing cost-cutting efforts to make sure they don't impede regulatory
          commitments, The Wall Street Journal reported last year. The committee, which is led by Ms. Norton, is
          reviewing documentation for decisions like layoffs and pressure-testing them, a person familiar with the
          matter said. It has ultimate veto power over cost-cutting initiatives, which were previously left to individual
          business heads.                                                         
          Another new group reviews new products and policy decisions with a focus on how they affect customers.
          "The risk, control and regulatory work continues to be our top priority, and we are investing in those areas,"
          said Chief Operating Officer Scott Powell. "We have safeguards in place to ensure that nothing, including any
          actions we take to improve our efficiency, interferes with those efforts."
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Since he became CEO in October 2019, Mr. Scharf has replaced most of his top deputies. The bank has
          hired key leaders in risk, including a new chief compliance officer and chief risk officers for each of its
          business units. The goal is to give responsibility for risk to each business line while maintaining central
          oversight. A new chief control executive shares responsibility with each business for overseeing the
          safeguards meant to prevent disasters.                                  
          There have been signs of progress on the regulatory front. In January, the Office of the Comptroller of the
          Currency lifted a consent order involving failures of the bank's anti-money-laundering controls. The order
          was from 2015, before the fake-account scandal came to light.           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210218eh2i0001n                                      
          