 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Corporation's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, and June 30, 2020, and should be read in conjunction therewith 

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in significant deterioration and disruption in national and local economic conditions and record levels of unemployment, which may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic is creating extensive disruptions to the global economy, to businesses, and to the lives of individuals throughout the world. Federal and state governments are taking unprecedented actions to contain the spread of the disease, including quarantines, travel bans, shelter-in-place orders, closures of businesses and schools, fiscal stimulus, and legislation designed to deliver monetary aid and other relief. Although in various locations some of the activity restrictions listed above have been relaxed with progressive success, in many geographies the number of individuals diagnosed with COVID-19 has significantly increased causing a freezing or even reversal of the relaxation of activity restrictions. The cessation of stay-at-home orders in Wisconsin, Illinois, and Minnesota, and the relaxation of various activity restrictions, have resulted in an increased number of positive COVID-19 cases in these geographies. For example, recent reports have indicated that Wisconsin, Illinois and Minnesota all suffered their highest number of reported daily COVID-19 cases on October 16, 2020. This resurgence has heightened pressure on state officials to reverse the relaxation of activity restrictions, which causes further uncertain economic conditions and could lead again to a shutdown of businesses and operations. 

The uncertain economic conditions and various activity restrictions due to COVID-19 have resulted in an extremely challenging operating environment for many businesses, and the complete shutdown of others, as well as record levels of unemployment. The national unemployment rate was 7.9% as of September 2020, which while down from 11.1% in June 2020, remains significantly higher than the pre-pandemic 3.6% in January 2020. Further, the Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation, which under Section 2104 of the CARES Act allows for additional payments to covered individuals of up to $600 per week, expired as of July 31, 2020 and it is uncertain whether and to what extent the benefit will be renewed by Congress. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is rapidly evolving and the ultimate impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken currently or in the future by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic. And while there have been trillions of dollars in economic stimulus packages initiated by the Federal Reserve and the federal government, including the $2 trillion CARES Act, as expanded by the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, in an effort to counteract the significant economic disruption from COVID-19, there can be no assurance that these packages will be sufficient, or produce positive results quickly enough, to stimulate the economy, and additional governmental stimulus and related interventions may be needed. Accordingly, the Corporation will be operating under uncertain economic conditions for a lengthy period of time. 

Additionally the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected the financial markets and has resulted in a number of Federal Reserve actions. To help address these issues, the FOMC reduced the benchmark federal funds rate to a target range of 0% to 0.25%, the lowest since the 2008 economic crisis, and the yields on 10 and 30-year treasury notes have declined to historic lows. At its June and July meetings, the FOMC continued its commitment to this approach, indicating that the target federal funds rate would remain at current levels until the economy is in position to achieve the FOMC's maximum-employment and price stability goals. At its September meeting, the FOMC confirmed its continued commitment to maintaining this approach, indicating that while financial conditions have improved since the summer months, additional stimulus from the federal government is essential to our economy's recovery. In addition, in order to support the flow of credit to households and businesses, the Federal Reserve indicated that it will continue to increase its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and agency residential and commercial MBS to sustain proper functioning of the financial markets. The reductions in interest rates, especially if prolonged, could adversely affect our net interest income, net interest spread and net interest margin. Further, the overall impact of COVID-19 on the financial markets could result in a significant decline in the market value of the Corporation's common stock, which may cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test in between annual tests. If that impairment test indicates that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount, we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The full impact of the COVID-19 

pandemic on our business activities as a result of new government and regulatory policies, programs and guidelines, as well as market reactions to such activities, remains uncertain. 

Because there have been no comparable recent global pandemics that resulted in a similar global impact, we do not yet know the full extent of COVID-19's effects on our business, operations, or the global economy as a whole. Any future development will be highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our remote working arrangements, third party providers' ability to support our operations, and any further action taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. The uncertain future development of this crisis could materially and adversely affect our business, operations, operating results, financial condition, liquidity or capital levels. 

Regulatory and governmental actions to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including required loan forbearances and restrictions on evictions, could result in a material decline in our earnings. There have been a number of recent bank regulatory actions and legislative changes intended to help mitigate the adverse economic impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including mandates requiring financial institutions to work constructively with borrowers affected by COVID-19. In addition, the governors of many states in which we do business or in which our borrowers and loan collateral are located have issued temporary bans on evictions and foreclosures. Although Wisconsin and Minnesota's temporary ban on all residential and commercial evictions and foreclosures have expired, Illinois has extended its ban through October 17, 2020, and there is mounting pressure on governors and localities to take further relief action. In addition, we have implemented the following programs to assist our borrowers and other customers in mitigating the impact of COVID-19: consumer and commercial loan and credit card deferral programs, suspension and reassessment of certain transaction and late fees, and the suspension of foreclosures and repossessions. 

At the federal level, Section 4022 of the CARES Act allows, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed one-to-four family mortgage loans experiencing a financial hardship due to COVID-19 to request forbearance, regardless of delinquency status, for up to 360 days. Section 4022 also prohibited servicers of federally-backed mortgage loans from initiating foreclosures during the 60-day period beginning March 18, 2020. Further, on August 27, 2020, the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would extend their single-family moratorium on foreclosures and evictions through December 31, 2020. In addition, under Section 4023 of the CARES Act, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed multifamily mortgage loans whose payments were current as of February 1, 2020, but who have since experienced financial hardship due to COVID-19, may request a forbearance for up to 90 days. Borrowers receiving such forbearance may not evict or charge late fees to tenants for its duration. These regulatory and legislative actions may be expanded, extended and amended as the pandemic and its economic impact develop. 

As a result of the forbearance and mitigation programs described above, we have experienced a significant decline in borrower loan payments, which may continue into the future and have a material impact on our earnings. 

We expect our loan portfolios to be significantly affected by the response to COVID-19 and our allowance for credit losses on loans may not be sufficient to cover losses in our portfolios. The economic shutdown in response to COVID-19 has resulted in a significant increase in delinquencies and loans on non-accrual status across all of our loan portfolios, particularly our commercial loan portfolio as certain industries have been particularly hard-hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has adversely affected the ability of many of our borrowers to repay their loans. As of September 30, 2020, our commercial loan portfolio includes $2.1 billion, representing 8.4% of total loans, to borrowers in key industries which may see elevated risk as a result of the current economic dynamics. These key exposures include: $1.1 billion of loans to retailers and shopping centers, $333 million to oil &#38; gas producers, $247 million of loans to borrowers in the hotel industry, $116 million to restaurant related borrowers, and approximately $266 million across various exposures, which have been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The elevated unemployment rate will continue to have a significant adverse impact on the ability of our residential and multi-family borrowers to repay their loans. 

As a result of our evaluation of the current and expected impacts of COVID-19 on our loan portfolios, our loan losses and delinquencies have significantly exceeded what we anticipated when our ACLL was established at the end of 2019. As a result, we have increased our ACLL by $219 million to $442 million for the first nine months of 2020, compared to $223 million at the end of 2019. As the economic impact due to COVID-19 continues and there are no assurances as to how long it will be before the COVID-19 pandemic abates and economic activity can begin to resume to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels, there is no assurance that we will not need to significantly add to our loan loss reserves in future periods. 

We have originated a significant number of loans under the SBA&#8217;s Paycheck Protection Program, which may result in a large number of such loans remaining on our consolidated balance sheets at a very low yield for an extended period of time. We are a significant participant as a lender under the SBA&#8217;s PPP established under the CARES Act. The PPP authorizes financial institutions to make federally-guaranteed loans to qualifying small businesses and non-profit organizations. These loans carry an interest rate of 1% per annum and a maturity of 2 years for loans originated prior to June 5, 2020 and 5 years for 

loans originated on or after June 5th. The PPP provides that such loans may be forgiven if the borrowers meet certain requirements with respect to maintaining employee headcount and payroll and the use of the loan proceeds after the loan is originated. If not forgiven, these loans will be guaranteed by the SBA under the SBA&#8217;s section 7(a) program. As of September 30, 2020, we had PPP loans with outstanding balances of $1.0 billion. In light of the speed at which the PPP was implemented, particularly due to the &#8220;first come first served&#8221; nature of the program, the loans originated under this program may present potential fraud risk, increasing the risk that loan forgiveness may not be obtained by the borrowers and that the guaranty may not be honored. In addition, there is risk that the borrowers may not qualify for the loan forgiveness feature due to the conduct of the borrower after the loan is originated. Further, although the SBA has recently streamlined the loan forgiveness process for loans $50,000 or less, it has taken longer than initially anticipated for the SBA to finalize the forgiveness processes. Thus, absent regulatory relief, extended forbearance waiting times due to SBA-related delays are likely. These factors may result in us having to hold a significant amount of these low-yield loans on our books for a significant period of time. Additionally, the PPP loans are not secured by an interest in a borrower's assets or otherwise backed by personal guarantees. We will continue to face increased operational demands and pressures as we monitor and service our book of PPP loans, process applications for loan forgiveness and pursue recourse under the SBA guarantees and against borrowers for PPP loan defaults. 

The OCC has also recently issued guidance encouraging banks to follow prudent banking practices consistent with safety and soundness principles in making PPP loans, including by thoroughly documenting the bank's decisions when setting eligibility criteria, establishing a process for considering applications and approving or denying PPP loan applications, as well as identifying and tracking PPP loan volumes. The guidance also states that, in exercising supervisory and enforcement responsibilities in this area, the OCC will take into account the unique circumstances resulting from the national emergency and good faith efforts to comply with applicable legal requirements. Thus, while the PPP guidelines provide that lenders may rely on borrower representations and certifications regarding eligibility with respect to PPP loans and do not need to verify information provided, the OCC guidance makes clear that banks are still expected to prudently underwrite, document and track PPP loans in a manner consistent with safe and sound banking practices and could face supervisory or enforcement risks in failing to do so. As a result of participation in the PPP, we may be subject to litigation and claims by borrowers under the PPP loans that we have made, as well as investigation and scrutiny by our regulators, Congress, the SBA, the U.S. Treasury Department and other government agencies. 

Regardless of whether these claims and investigations are founded or unfounded, if such claims and investigations are not resolved in a timely manner favorable to us, they may result in significant costs and liabilities (including increased legal and professional services costs) and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services. 

Also, we have registered as a lender in the MSLP, which is a program among the many financing and liquidity programs that the Federal Reserve, on its own and in cooperation with the Department of the Treasury, has established. The MSLP is intended to keep credit flowing to small and mid-sized businesses that were in sound financial condition before the coronavirus pandemic but now need financing to maintain operations. MSLP lenders retain 5% of such loans, with the remaining 95% being participated to a special purpose vehicle established for the program. The interest rate on MSLP loans currently is one- or three-month LIBOR plus 3%. Although the MSLP provides for deferral of interest and principal payments, unlike the PPP it does not provide loan forgiveness or any other government guaranty on the 5% retention amount. Participation in the MSLP may also present credit and other operational risks that cannot currently be estimated. 

Risks Related to Oil and Gas Industry 

We may be adversely affected by declines in oil prices. Ongoing volatility in the oil and gas markets has compressed margins for many U.S.-based oil producers and others in the oil and gas industry. Our oil and gas portfolio is comprised of 30 credits made to small and mid-sized companies. These borrowers are likely to be adversely affected by price volatility or a downturn in oil and gas prices. During the first quarter of 2020, there was a drastic decrease in crude oil prices as a result of the reported dispute between Russia and Saudi Arabia regarding oil production levels, which could result in a material adverse impact on such borrowers. Although there was a rise in crude oil prices during the second quarter, the evolving nature of the global COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in volatile global demand for oil and gas. As of September 30, 2020, our oil and gas loan exposure was $498 million of commitments with $333 million outstanding, representing less than 2% of our loan portfolio. The ACLL related to this portfolio was 15.3% at September 30, 2020, compared to 19.4% at June 30, 2020. A significant deterioration in our oil and gas loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. An increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from these loans, one or more additional increases in the provision for credit losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

