 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplements the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction therewith. 

The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in significant deterioration and disruption in national and local economic conditions and record levels of unemployment, which may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The outbreak of COVID-19 has caused a global and national health emergency, resulting in the President declaring a national emergency and, for the first time in history, the issuance of a major disaster declaration for all 50 states. Federal and state governments have taken, and continue to take, unprecedented actions to slow the spread of the disease, including stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions and quarantines and shutdowns of schools and businesses. The vast majority of states are currently operating under stay-at-home orders, including the states in which the Corporation does business. Wisconsin's stay-at-home order has been extended until May 26, 2020 and Illinois&#8217; and Minnesota&#8217;s stay-at-home orders have been extended until May 30 and May 18, 2020, respectively. While all three states have also announced some easing of restrictions on non-essential businesses and, in Illinois, an expansion of the types of businesses considered essential, public health experts have cautioned that re-opening the economy too soon could result in a resurgence of COVID-19. 

The uncertain economic conditions and stay-at home orders due to COVID-19 have resulted in an extremely challenging operating environment for many businesses, and the complete shutdown of others, as well as record levels of unemployment. The national unemployment rate increased to 14.7% in April 2020, from 3.6% in January 2020. The national unemployment level has increased with unprecedented speed as more than 30 million people have filed for unemployment assistance in the wake of the economic shutdown due to COVID-19. 

The timing for any re-opening of the economy is unclear and could be delayed longer than as indicated by recent public statements from the White House. In addition, the governors of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan and Ohio have agreed to coordinate their states&#8217; economic re-openings. And while there have been trillions of dollars in economic stimulus packages initiated by the Federal Reserve and the federal government, including the $2 trillion CARES Act, as expanded by the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Act, in an effort to counteract the significant economic disruption from COVID-19, there can be no assurance that these packages will be sufficient, or work quickly enough, to stimulate the economy, and additional governmental stimulus may be needed. Accordingly, the Corporation will be operating under uncertain economic conditions for a lengthy period of time. 

Additionally the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected the financial markets and has resulted in a number of Federal Reserve actions. Market interest rates have declined significantly. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve reduced the target federal funds rate to a range of 0.00% to 0.25%, the lowest since the 2008 economic crisis, and announced a $700 billion quantitative easing program in response to the expected economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the Federal Reserve reduced the interest that it pays on excess reserves. At its April meeting, the Federal Reserve continued its commitment to these policies. These reductions in interest rates, especially if prolonged, could adversely affect our net interest income, net interest spread and net interest margin. Further, the overall impact of COVID-19 on the financial markets could result in a significant decline in the market value of the Corporation's common stock, which may cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test in between annual tests. If that impairment test indicates that the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount, we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business activities as a result of new government and regulatory policies, programs and guidelines, as well as market reactions to such activities, remains uncertain. 

Regulatory and governmental actions to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including required loan forbearances and restrictions on evictions, could result in a material decline in our earnings. There have been a number of recent bank regulatory actions and legislative changes intended to help mitigate the adverse economic impact of COVID-19 on borrowers, including mandates requiring financial institutions to work constructively with borrowers affected by COVID-19. In addition, the governors of many states in which we do business or in which our borrowers and loan collateral are located have issued temporary bans on evictions and foreclosures. In Wisconsin, the Governor has issued a temporary ban on all residential 

and commercial evictions and foreclosures until May 26, 2020. In addition, we have implemented the following programs to assist our borrowers and other customers in mitigating the impact of COVID-19: consumer and commercial loan and credit card deferral programs, suspension of certain transaction and late fees, and the suspension of foreclosures and repossessions. 

At the federal level, Section 4022 of the CARES Act allows, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed one-to-four family mortgage loans experiencing a financial hardship due to COVID-19 to request forbearance, regardless of delinquency status, for up to 360 days. Section 4022 also prohibits servicers of federally-backed mortgage loans from initiating foreclosures during the 60-day period beginning March 18, 2020. In addition, under Section 4023 of the CARES Act, until the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the date the national emergency declared by the President terminates, borrowers with federally-backed multifamily mortgage loans whose payments were current as of February 1, 2020, but who have since experienced financial hardship due to COVID-19, may request a forbearance for up to 90 days. Borrowers receiving such forbearance may not evict or charge late fees to tenants for its duration. 

As a result of the forbearance and mitigation programs described above, we expect a significant decline in borrower loan payments, which may have a material impact on our earnings, as well as a reduction in fee income. 

We expect our loan portfolios to be significantly affected by the response to COVID-19 and our allowance for credit losses on loans may not be sufficient to cover losses in our portfolios. The economic shutdown in response to COVID-19 may result in a significant increase in delinquencies across all of our loan portfolios, particularly our commercial loan portfolio as stay-at-home orders and travel restrictions have caused many businesses to close, either temporarily or permanently, or substantially reduce operations, which will adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. In particular, our commercial loan portfolio includes $2.2 billion, representing 9% of total loans, to borrowers in key industries which may see elevated risk as a result of the current economic dynamics. These key exposures include: $1.1 billion of loans to retailers and shopping centers, $466 million to oil &#38; gas producers, $211 million of loans to borrowers in the hotel industry, $119 million to restaurant related borrowers, and approximately $260 million across various exposures, which have been significantly impacted by the stay-at-home orders and travel restrictions. The substantial increase in unemployment will also have a significant adverse impact on the ability of our residential and multi-family borrowers to repay their loans. 

As a result of our evaluation of the current and expected impacts of COVID-19 on our loan portfolios, we believe that our loan losses and delinquencies will significantly exceed what we anticipated when our ACLL was established at the end of 2019. As a result, we have increased our ACLL by $171 million to $394 million for the first quarter of 2020, compared to $223 million at the end of 2019. As the economic impact due to COVID-19 has been experienced in recent weeks and there are no assurances as to how long it will be before the COVID-19 pandemic abates and economic activity can begin to resume to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels, there is no assurance that we will not need to significantly add to our loan loss reserves in future periods. 

The stay-at-home orders in the states in which we do business have created operational challenges for our business, and our ability to conduct our business could be further adversely affected if a significant number of our management or employees or their families become ill due to COVID-19. Under the stay-at-home orders in place in the states in which we conduct business, all individuals generally must stay at home except to perform certain essential activities or governmental functions or to operate essential businesses. While banks are considered essential and our branches and offices are permitted to remain open, we have taken a number of actions to help ensure the safety of our employees and customers, including suspending all lobby access at most of our branch locations and conducting branch business through our drive thru windows and ATMs, and requiring employees with certain job functions to work from home. We also have contingency plans in place to ensure continuity of management and operations in the event that members of our senior management or employees become ill due to COVID-19. However, notwithstanding the protective measures and plans we have in place, our employees and their families may still be affected by COVID-19. If a significant number of our employees or if key individuals become unable to work or to perform their jobs properly due to COVID-19, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we rely on third party vendors to provide key components of our business infrastructure. If any of these third party vendors experience significant disruption as a result of COVID-19, they may not be able to provide their services properly or in a timely manner, which could also adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We also face an increased risk of cyber-attacks or other security breaches due to the increase in the number of our employees working from home, as well as an increase in online banking activity. 

We have originated a significant number of loans under the SBA&#8217;s Paycheck Protection Program, which may result in a large number of such loans remaining on our consolidated balance sheets at a very low yield for an extended period of time. We participated as a lender under the SBA&#8217;s PPP established under the CARES Act. The PPP authorizes financial institutions to make federally-guaranteed loans to qualifying small businesses and non-profits organizations. These loans carry a maturity of two years and an interest rate of 1% per annum. The PPP provides that such loans may be forgiven if the borrowers meet certain requirements with respect to maintaining employee headcount and payroll and the use of the loan proceeds after the loan is originated. If not forgiven, these loans will be guaranteed by the SBA under the SBA&#8217;s section 7(a) program. As of May 6, 

2020, we had originated $1.0 billion of PPP loans. In light of the speed at which the PPP was implemented, particularly due to the &#8220;first come first served&#8221; nature of the program, the loans originated under this program may present potential fraud risk, increasing the risk that loan forgiveness may not be obtained by the borrowers and that the guaranty may not be honored. In addition, there is risk that the borrowers may not qualify for the loan forgiveness feature due to the conduct of the borrower after the loan is originated. These factors may result in us having to hold a significant amount of these low-yield loans on our books for a significant period of time. 

The OCC has also recently issued guidance encouraging banks to follow prudent banking practices consistent with safety and soundness principles in making PPP loans, including by thoroughly documenting the bank's decisions when setting eligibility criteria, establishing a process for considering applications and approving or denying PPP loan applications, as well as identifying and tracking PPP loan volumes. The guidance also states that, in exercising supervisory and enforcement responsibilities in this area, the OCC will take into account the unique circumstances resulting from the national emergency and good faith efforts to comply with applicable legal requirements. Thus, while the PPP guidelines provide that lenders may rely on borrower representations and certifications regarding eligibility with respect to PPP loans and do not need to verify information provided, the OCC guidance makes clear that banks are still expected to prudently underwrite, document and track PPP loans in a manner consistent with safe and sound banking practices and could face supervisory or enforcement risks in failing to do so. Further, recent statements by members of Congress and the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States make clear that compliance with the PPP requirements likely will become the subject of investigations and potentially enforcement actions by various government agencies. 

Risks Related to Oil and Gas Industry 

We may be adversely affected by declines in oil prices. Ongoing volatility in the oil and gas markets has compressed margins for many U.S.-based oil producers and others in the oil and gas industry. Our oil and gas portfolio is comprised of 35 credits made to small and mid-sized companies. These borrowers are likely to be adversely affected by price volatility or a downturn in oil and gas prices. During the first quarter of 2020, there has been a drastic decrease in crude oil prices as a result of the reported dispute between Russia and Saudi Arabia regarding oil production levels, which could result in a material adverse impact on such borrowers. As of March 31, 2020, our oil and gas loan exposure was $703 million of commitments with $466 million outstanding, representing less than 2% of our loan portfolio. The ACLL related to this portfolio was 16.6% at March 31, 2020, compared to 2.7% at December 31, 2019. A significant deterioration in our oil and gas loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. An increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from these loans, one or more additional increases in the provision for credit losses, and an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

