 Item 1. Business. 

GENERAL 

Comerica Incorporated (&#8220;Comerica&#8221;) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1973, and headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Based on total assets as reported in the most recently filed Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), it was among the 25 largest commercial United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) financial holding companies. As of December 31, 2023, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of 2 active banking subsidiaries (Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association, and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association) as well as non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2023, Comerica had total assets of approximately $85.8 billion, total deposits of approximately $66.8 billion, total loans of approximately $52.1 billion and shareholders&#8217; equity of approximately $6.4 billion. 

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Commercial Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. In addition to the three major business segments, Finance is also reported as a segment. 

Comerica operates in five primary geographic markets - Texas, California, Michigan, Arizona and Florida - and secondarily in several mountain, southeastern, and other states, and in Canada and Mexico. 

In 2023, Comerica announced a strategic relationship with Ameriprise to become Comerica&#8217;s new investment program provider. As such, Comerica transitioned support of specific insurance, brokerage and investment advisory activities to Ameriprise. The new name representing this strategic relationship is Comerica Financial Advisors, powered by Ameriprise Financial. 

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, &#8220;Analysis of Net Interest Income&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report; (2) under the caption &#8220;Rate/Volume Analysis&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report; and (3) under the caption &#8220;Noninterest Income&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report. 

COMPETITION 

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica and its subsidiaries mainly compete in their primary and secondary geographic markets, and also compete throughout the continental U.S., Mexico and Canada as they pursue certain businesses on a national scale that fall outside of the primary markets, such as U.S. Banking, Mortgage Banker, Environmental Services and National Dealer Services. They have strategically placed offices in faster growing markets where there is a concentration of customers and industries they serve. Comerica has established commercial offices in North Carolina and South Carolina, private banking offices in Georgia and made investments in the Mountain West region of the United States. 

Comerica is subject to competition with respect to various products and services, including, without limitation, commercial products such as loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management (including payments solutions and card services), capital markets, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management and loan syndications; consumer products such as loans, deposits and origination of mortgage loans and credit cards; and wealth management services such as comprehensive financial planning, trust and fiduciary services, investment management and advisory, brokerage, private banking, and business transition planning services. 

Comerica competes largely on the basis of industry expertise, the range of products and services offered, pricing and reputation, convenience, quality of service, responsiveness to customer needs and the overall customer relationship. Comerica's competitors include financial institutions of all sizes. Some of Comerica's larger competitors, including certain nationwide banks that have a significant presence in Comerica's markets, may have a broader array of products and structure alternatives and, due to their size, may more easily absorb credit losses. Some of Comerica's competitors (larger or smaller) may have more liberal lending policies and aggressive pricing standards for loans, deposits and services. 

Increasingly, Comerica competes with other companies based on financial technology and capabilities, such as mobile banking applications and funds transfer. Further, Comerica's competitors may be subject to significantly different or lesser regulation due to their asset size or types of products offered. Some competitors may also have the ability to more efficiently utilize resources to comply with regulations or may be able to more effectively absorb the cost of regulations. 

In addition to banks, Comerica and its banking subsidiaries also face competition from financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer and commercial finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase as technology advances have lowered the barriers to entry for financial technology companies, with customers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives, including crowdfunding, digital wallets and money transfer services. The ability of non-banks to provide services previously limited to traditional banks has intensified competition. Because non-banks are not subject to many of the same 

Table of Contents 

regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. 

Finally, the industry continues to consolidate, which eliminates some regional and local institutions, while potentially strengthening acquirers. Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will continue to increase in the future. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Banks, bank holding companies, and other financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System through the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (&#8220;FRB&#8221;) pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Comerica Bank (the "Bank") is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking under the Texas Finance Code and the Texas Administrative Code. The Bank has elected to be a member of the Federal Reserve System under the Federal Reserve Act and, consequently, is supervised and regulated by the FRB. Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association is federally chartered and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) pursuant to the National Bank Act. Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association, by virtue of being a national bank, is also a member of the Federal Reserve System. Furthermore, given that the Bank is a bank with assets in excess of $10 billion, it is subject to supervision and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") for purposes of assessing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. The Bank's deposits, and those of Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association, are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) to the fullest extent provided by law, and therefore the Bank and Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association are each also subject to regulation by the FDIC. Certain transactions executed by the Bank are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;). The Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;) regulates financial institutions providing services to plans governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The Bank&#8217;s Canada branch is supervised by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and its Mexico representative office is also supervised by the Banco de M&#233;xico. The Bank is also registered in the Cayman Islands and subject to supervision by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority. 

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica&#8217;s non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs of the State of Michigan, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (&#8220;MSRB&#8221;) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.); the Department of Insurance and Financial Services of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.); and the DOL (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.). 

Both the scope of the laws and regulations and intensity of supervision to which banks', bank holding companies' and financial institutions' businesses are subject continue to increase in response to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, subsequent events, and other factors such as technological, economic and market changes. Many regulatory changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. In 2018, with the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;), as described below, there was some recalibration of the post-financial crisis framework; however, banks', bank holding companies' and financial institutions' businesses remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The failure of certain banks in the spring of 2023 played a role in another increase in bank regulation, at least some of which could apply to Comerica. 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities. If any bank were to receive a rating under the CRA of less than &#8220;Satisfactory,&#8221; the bank would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities. Comerica's current CRA rating is "Outstanding." The CRA regulations were substantially amended in 2023, which may affect future compliance. 

Comerica is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. 

Described below are material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business of Comerica and its subsidiaries. 

Table of Contents 

Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act and Recent Developments 

On May 24, 2018, EGRRCPA was signed into law. Among other regulatory changes, EGRRCPA amended various sections of the Dodd-Frank Act, including section 165 of Dodd-Frank Act, which was revised to raise the asset thresholds for determining the application of enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies. Under EGRRCPA bank holding companies with less than $100 billion of consolidated assets, such as Comerica, became exempt from all of the Dodd-Frank enhanced prudential standards, except risk committee requirements. As a result, Comerica currently is not subject to the remaining Dodd-Frank Act enhanced prudential standards or certain capital and liquidity rules to large bank holding companies and depository institutions (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). 

Should Comerica meet or cross the $100 billion asset threshold and thus become a Category IV institution it will be subject to additional and more stringent regulation, which includes, but is not limited to, enhanced prudential standards for U.S. banking organizations with $100 to $250 billion of consolidated assets. In addition, Comerica would be required to pay the supervision and regulation fee assessment under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

On July 27, 2023, the FRB, the FDIC, and the OCC issued a proposal, referred to as &#8220;Basel III Endgame,&#8221; that would result in significant changes to the U.S. regulatory capital rules under EGRRCPA for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more. Comerica's total consolidated assets are below this $100 billion threshold, but Comerica continues to invest in potential preparation should it meet that threshold or regulators lower that threshold. If Comerica becomes subject to these requirements or becomes subject to any other new laws or regulations related to capital and liquidity, such requirements could limit Comerica&#8217;s ability to pay dividends or make share repurchases or require Comerica to reduce business levels or to raise capital, which would have a material adverse effect on Comerica's financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition to laws and regulations focusing principally on asset thresholds, examination ratings also can affect Comerica. Adverse examination findings can result in confidential or public enforcement actions, which can affect fees, costs, operational requirements, and growth initiatives, at both Comerica and each of its subsidiary banks. 

Requirements for Approval of Activities and Acquisitions 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. A financial holding company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are "financial in nature" include, but are not limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies (subject to regulatory requirements described below); insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking,; and activities that the FRB determines, in consultation with the Secretary of the United States Treasury, to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. "Complementary activities" are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. In order to exercise the full benefits of its status as a bank holding company and a financial holding company, Comerica and each of its depository institution subsidiaries must be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed.&#8221; If at any time a financial holding company or any subsidiary bank is not considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well managed&#8221; under applicable regulatory standards, the law and the FRB limit its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies, and impose limitations or conditions on its conduct or activities or those of its bank and non-bank affiliates. If the deficiencies persist, the FRB could order the financial holding company to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or the financial holding company could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company. Adverse examinations at the bank-level also could increase costs and limit activities and growth of Comerica Bank &#38; Trust, National Association and Bank and its subsidiaries. 

Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions of other depository institutions or bank holding companies. In many cases, no FRB approval is required for a financial holding company to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior approval is required before a financial holding company may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company (including another financial holding company) or a bank. In considering applications for approval of acquisitions, the banking regulators may take several factors into account, including whether the financial holding company and its subsidiaries are well capitalized and well managed, are in compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, or have CRA ratings of less than &#8220;Satisfactory.&#8221; The Bank's current CRA rating is "Outstanding." 

Table of Contents 

Acquisitions of Ownership of Comerica 

Acquisitions of Comerica&#8217;s voting stock above certain thresholds are subject to prior regulatory notice or approval under federal banking laws, including the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, a person or entity generally must provide prior notice to the FRB before acquiring the power to vote 10% or more of a subject company's outstanding common stock. Investors should be aware of these requirements when acquiring shares of Comerica&#8217;s stock. 

Capital and Liquidity 

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, FDIC and/or the OCC. In calculating risk-based capital requirements, a depository institution&#8217;s or holding company&#8217;s assets and certain specified off-balance sheet items (such as unused commitments and standby letters of credit) are assigned to various risk categories defined by those agencies, each weighted differently based on the level of risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments, based on counterparty type, asset class and maturity. A depository institution&#8217;s or bank holding company&#8217;s capital is divided into three tiers: Common Equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;), additional Tier 1, and Tier 2. CET1 capital predominantly includes common shareholders&#8217; equity, less certain deductions for goodwill, intangible assets and deferred tax assets that arise from net operating losses and tax credit carry-forwards, if any. Additional Tier 1 capital primarily includes any outstanding noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus. Comerica has also made the election to permanently exclude accumulated other comprehensive income related to debt securities classified as available-for-sale, cash flow hedges, and defined benefit postretirement plans from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital primarily includes any outstanding noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus. Tier 1 capital is equal to CET1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying allowance for credit losses. More information is set forth under the caption &#8220;Capital&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report. Total capital is the amount equal to Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 Capital. 

Entities that engage in trading activities that exceed specified levels also are required to maintain capital to account for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors. From time to time, Comerica&#8217;s trading activities may exceed specified regulatory levels, in which case Comerica adjusts its risk-weighted assets to account for market risk as required. 

Bank holding companies and banks are currently required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio equal to at least 4.5 percent, 6 percent and 8 percent of their total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as unused commitments and standby letters of credit), respectively. Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are also required to maintain a minimum capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses, and to maintain a minimum &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221; (Tier 1 capital to non-risk-adjusted average total assets) of 4 percent. 

To be well capitalized, banks are required to maintain a leverage ratio, CET1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio equal to at least 5.0 percent, 6.5 percent, 8.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. For purposes of the FRB&#8217;s Regulation Y, including determining whether a bank holding company meets the requirements to be a financial holding company, bank holding companies must maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0 percent and a total capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent to be well capitalized. The FRB may require bank holding companies to maintain capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a bank holding company&#8217;s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. 

Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators, including restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications, or other restrictions on growth. 

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2023, Comerica met all of its minimum risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio requirements plus the applicable capital conservation buffer and the applicable well capitalized requirements, as shown in the table below: 

##TABLE_START (dollar amounts in millions) Comerica Incorporated (Consolidated) Comerica Bank December 31, 2023 CET1 capital (minimum $3.4 billion (Consolidated)) $ 8,414 &#160; $ 8,007 &#160; Tier 1 capital (minimum $4.6 billion (Consolidated)) 8,808 &#160; 8,007 &#160; Total capital (minimum $6.1 billion (Consolidated)) 10,263 &#160; 9,362 &#160; Risk-weighted assets 75,901 &#160; 75,783 &#160; Average assets (fourth quarter) 87,538 &#160; 87,423 &#160; CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-4.5%) 11.09 &#160; % 10.57 &#160; % Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-6.0%) 11.60 &#160; 10.57 &#160; Total capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-8.0%) 13.52 &#160; 12.35 &#160; Tier 1 capital to average assets (minimum-4.0%) 10.06 &#160; 9.16 &#160; Capital conservation buffer (minimum-2.5%) 5.52 &#160; 4.35 &#160; December 31, 2022 CET1 capital (minimum $3.5 billion (Consolidated)) $ 7,884 $ 7,801 Tier 1 capital (minimum $4.7 billion (Consolidated)) 8,278 7,801 Total capital (minimum $6.3 billion (Consolidated)) 9,817 9,190 Risk-weighted assets 78,871 78,781 Average assets (fourth quarter) 86,726 86,608 CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-4.5%) 10.00 % 9.90 % Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-6.0%) 10.50 9.90 Total capital to risk-weighted assets (minimum-8.0%) 12.45 11.67 Tier 1 capital to average assets (minimum-4.0%) 9.55 9.01 Capital conservation buffer (minimum-2.5%) 4.45 3.67 ##TABLE_END

Additional information on the calculation of Comerica&#8217;s and its bank subsidiaries&#8217; CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in the &#8220;Capital&#8221; section in the Financial Section of this report and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Financial Section of this report. 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;) requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to depository institutions that do not meet certain minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; An institution that fails to remain well capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The FDICIA also provides for enhanced supervisory authority over undercapitalized institutions, including authority for the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution. 

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital-based safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, &#8220;truth in savings&#8221; provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any domestic branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC. 

Dividends 

Comerica Incorporated is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Since Comerica&#8217;s consolidated net income and liquidity consists largely of net income of and dividends received from Comerica&#8217;s bank subsidiaries, Comerica&#8217;s ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares depends upon its receipt of dividends from these subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to 

Table of Contents 

Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below. No assurances can be given that Comerica&#8217;s bank subsidiaries will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to Comerica. 

Banks are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1, 2024, Comerica's subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $400 million from retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of $675 million in 2023, $1.0 billion in 2022 and $852 million in 2021. 

Furthermore, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a bank or bank holding company from paying dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDICIA &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regime discussed above, a bank is specifically prohibited from paying dividends to its parent company if payment would result in the bank becoming &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; In addition, the Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends to Comerica and requires prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels. 

FRB supervisory guidance generally provides that a bank holding company should not maintain its existing rate of dividends on common stock unless (1) the organization&#8217;s net income over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition and (3) the organization will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. The supervisory guidance also provides that a bank holding company should inform the FRB reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in a material adverse change to the bank holding company&#8217;s capital structure. The guidance suggests that bank holding companies consult with the FRB before redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments, or materially increasing dividends. In addition, FRB regulation requires bank holding companies to provide notice to or obtain approval from the FRB prior to purchasing or redeeming equity securities under certain circumstances. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Federal banking laws and regulations impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions between a bank and its affiliates, on the one hand, and Comerica&#8217;s affiliate insured depository institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution&#8217;s loans and other &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any particular nonbank affiliate (including financial subsidiaries) to no more than 10% of the institution&#8217;s total capital and limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution&#8217;s covered transactions with all of its nonbank affiliates to no more than 20% of its total capital. &#8220;Covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include (i) a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, (ii) a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, (iii) a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the FRB) from the affiliate, (iv) the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, (v) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate and (vi) securities borrowing or lending transactions and derivative transactions with an affiliate, to the extent that either causes a bank or its affiliate to have credit exposure to the securities borrowing/lending or derivative counterparty. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository institution&#8217;s loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution&#8217;s transactions with its nonbank affiliates be on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same or at least as favorable as those prevailing for comparable transactions with nonaffiliates. 

Loans to Insiders 

Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests (collectively, &#8220;insiders&#8221;) apply to all insured institutions and their subsidiaries and holding companies. These restrictions include conditions that must be met before insider loans can be made, limits on loans to an individual insider and an aggregate limitation on all loans to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the institution&#8217;s total unimpaired capital and surplus, and the Federal Reserve Board may determine that a lesser amount is appropriate. Insiders are subject to enforcement actions for knowingly accepting loans in violation of applicable restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the statutes placing limitations on loans to insiders by including credit exposures to the person arising from a derivatives transaction, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities lending transaction or securities borrowing transaction between the member bank and the person within the definition of an extension of credit. 

Federal Laws Applicable to Credit Transactions 

Comerica's loan operations are subject to federal laws and implementing regulations applicable to credit transactions, such as the Truth-In-Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair 

Table of Contents 

Credit Reporting Act of 1978-,("FCRA"), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws. State usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates apply to interest and other charges collected or contracted for by Comerica. 

Federal Laws Applicable to Deposit Operations 

Comerica's deposit operations are subject to multiple federal laws, including the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Truth in Savings Act and the Electronic Funds Transfer Act. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Electronic Funds Transfer Act to, among other things, give the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. The FRB is currently soliciting comments on a proposal to lower the maximum interchange fee a large debit card issuer can receive for a debit card transaction. 

Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Regulation 

Comerica is subject to many U.S. federal, U.S. state and international laws and regulations governing consumer data privacy protection, which require, among other things, maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of customers and employees. The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of the disclosure. Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state levels, limit Comerica&#8217;s ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. 

Federal banking and securities regulations also impose certain requirements on Comerica and its subsidiary banks in the event of a cyber- or computer-related security incident. In 2021, the federal banking regulators issued the interagency rule for Computer-Security Incident Notification Requirements for Banking Organizations and Their Service Providers, which became effective on April 1, 2022. The rule requires a bank to notify its primary federal regulator of certain cybersecurity incidents within thirty-six (36) hours after the bank determines that a cybersecurity incident has occurred. The rule defines what constitutes a reportable incident and also requires bank service providers to provide notice to their respective banking organization customers of certain cybersecurity incidents. The SEC recently issued a Cybersecurity Risk Management, Strategy, Governance, and Incident Disclosure rule, which became effective in December of 2023, and which requires that a registered company file a Form 8-K to disclose the occurrence of a material cybersecurity incident within four (4) business days of determining that such an incident has occurred. The rule also requires that a registered company include certain information regarding its information security program as part of its annual Form 10-K filing, including a discussion of its processes for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats and a description of oversight and management of cybersecurity threats at the board and management levels. 

Data privacy and data protection are also areas of increasing state legislative focus. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (collectively, the &#8220;CCPA&#8221;), applies to for-profit businesses that conduct business in California and meet certain revenue or data collection thresholds. The CCPA gives consumers the right to request disclosure of information collected about them, and whether that information has been sold or shared with others, the right to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions), the right to opt out of the sale of the consumer&#8217;s personal information, and the right not to be discriminated against for exercising these rights. The CCPA contains several exemptions, including an exemption applicable to information that is collected, processed, sold or disclosed pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Comerica has a physical footprint in California and is required to comply with the CCPA. Similar laws may also be adopted by other states. The federal government may also pass data privacy or data protection legislation. 

Like other lenders, the Bank and other of Comerica&#8217;s subsidiaries use credit bureau data in their underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the FCRA and the FCRA also regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Comerica and its subsidiaries. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments 

The DIF provides deposit insurance coverage for certain deposits up to $250,000 per depositor in each deposit account category. Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, where the assessment rates for an insured depository institution are determined by an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity. Under the current system, premiums are 

Table of Contents 

assessed quarterly and could increase if, for example, criticized loans and/or other higher risk assets increase or balance sheet liquidity decreases, or a bank's supervisory ratings worsen. For 2023, Comerica&#8217;s FDIC insurance expense totaled $180 million. 

On October 18, 2022, the FDIC finalized a rule that would increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rates by 2 basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan in September 2020 to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed the statutory minimum of 1.35 percent within eight years. This plan did not include an increase in the deposit insurance assessment rate. Based on the FDIC&#8217;s recent projections, however, the FDIC determined that the DIF reserve ratio is at risk of not reaching the statutory minimum by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028 without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates. The increased assessment would improve the likelihood that the DIF reserve ratio would reach the required minimum by the statutory deadline, consistent with the FDIC&#8217;s Amended Restoration Plan. The rule became effective as of January 1, 2023. 

As a result of bank failures during early 2023, regulators invoked a "systemic risk exception" in an effort to strengthen public confidence in the banking system and protect depositors. As required by law, the FDIC announced that any losses to the DIF to support uninsured depositors will be recovered by a special assessment on banking organizations. On November 16, 2023, the FDIC adopted a final rule to implement this special assessment based on a banking organization&#8217;s estimated uninsured deposits as of December 31, 2022, excluding the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits. Comerica recorded an expense of $109 million as a result of this special assessment during the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Anti-Money Laundering Regulations 

Comerica is subject to several federal laws that are designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, and transactions with persons, companies or foreign governments designated by U.S. authorities ("AML laws"). This category of laws includes the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 170, as amended (the "Bank Secrecy Act"), the Money Laundering Control Act, and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or USA PATRIOT Act. 

The AML laws and their implementing regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The AML laws and their regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. To comply with these obligations, Comerica and its various operating units have implemented appropriate internal practices, procedures, and controls. 

The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (the &#8220;AML 2020 Act&#8221;) was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021. The AML 2020 Act is the most significant revision to the AML laws since the USA PATRIOT Act. The AML 2020 Act clarifies and streamlines the Bank Secrecy Act and AML obligations in the following ways: it requires U.S. entities and entities doing business in the United States to report into a national registry maintained by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (&#8220;FinCEN&#8221;) certain beneficial ownership information, subject to exceptions; modernizes the statutory definition of &#8220;financial institution&#8221; to include (i) entities that provide services involving &#8220;value that substitutes for currency,&#8221; which includes stored value and virtual currencies and (ii) any person engaged in the trade of antiquities, including an advisor, consultant or any other person who deals in the sale of antiquities; enhances penalties for Bank Secrecy Act and AML violations, including claw back of bonuses; increases AML whistleblower awards and expands whistleblower protections; requires the Secretary of the Treasury to establish and update every four years National AML Priorities, which are incorporated into the Bank Secrecy Act compliance programs at financial institutions subject to the Bank Secrecy Act; among other amendments. Implementing regulations concerning certain provisions of the AML 2020 Act have been proposed by FinCEN, but not all have been finalized. On September 29, 2022, FinCEN issued a final rule establishing a beneficial ownership information reporting requirement under the Corporate Transparency Act (CTA), which was passed as part of the AML 2020 Act. The rule, which became effective January 1, 2024, requires most entities created in or registered to do business in the United States, subject to certain exceptions, to report information about their beneficial owners to FinCEN. 

Table of Contents 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) is responsible for administering economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC-administered sanctions take many different forms. For example, sanctions may include: (1) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (2) a blocking of assets in which the government or &#8220;specially designated nationals&#8221; of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). OFAC also publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

The Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the &#8220;Interstate Act&#8221;), as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, permits a bank holding company, with FRB approval, to acquire banking institutions located in states other than the bank holding company's home state without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent of such deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30 percent). The Interstate Act, as amended, also authorizes banks to operate branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and by establishing de novo branches in other states, subject to various conditions. In the case of purchasing branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations, de novo interstate branching is permissible if under the law of the state in which the branch is to be located, a state bank chartered by that state would be permitted to establish the branch. 

Source of Strength and Cross-Guarantee Requirements 

Federal law and FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. The FRB may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actions that the FRB believes might jeopardize the bank holding company&#8217;s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank. Under these requirements, Comerica may in the future be required to provide financial assistance to its subsidiary banks should they experience financial distress. Capital loans by Comerica to its subsidiary banks would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of the subsidiary banks. In the event of Comerica&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by Comerica to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of its subsidiary banks would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC&#8217;s loss, subject to certain exceptions. An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution. 

Supervisory and Enforcement Powers of Federal and State Banking Agencies 

The FRB and other federal and state banking agencies have broad supervisory and enforcement powers, including, without limitation, and as prescribed to each agency by applicable law, the power to conduct examinations and investigations, impose nonpublic supervisory agreements, issue cease and desist orders, terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of bank holding companies and banks, and the results of these examinations, as well as certain supervisory and enforcement actions, are confidential and may not be made public. Regulatory and supervisory scrutiny of regional banking organizations has recently increased as a result of the bank failures in the spring of 2023. 

Table of Contents 

Resolution Plans 

As a depository institution with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, the Bank is required to periodically file a resolution plan with the FDIC. On April 16, 2019, the FDIC released an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (&#8220;ANPR&#8221;) with respect to the FDIC&#8217;s bank resolution plan requirements meant to better tailor bank resolution plans to a firm&#8217;s size, complexity and risk profile. In connection with this rulemaking, the FDIC placed a moratorium on resolution plans until the rulemaking process was complete. 

On June 25, 2021, the FDIC lifted the moratorium on resolution plan submissions for institutions with $100 billion or more in total assets. Under the FDIC&#8217;s Statement on Resolution Plans for IDIs , an institution will be required to submit resolution plans when it has $100 billion or more in total assets as determined based upon the average of the institution&#8217;s four most recent Reports of Condition and Income. 

On August 29, 2023, the FDIC released a proposed rule that would require insured depository institutions with assets of at least $50 billion but less than $100 billion, such as the Bank, to submit resolution-related informational filings. Comerica is monitoring the development of this proposal. 

Incentive-Based Compensation 

Comerica is subject to guidance issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers senior executives as well as other employees who, either individually or as part of a group, have the ability to expose the banking organization to material amounts of risk, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization's incentive compensation arrangements (i) should provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) should be compatible with effective controls and risk-management; and (iii) should be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization's board of directors. Banking organizations are expected to review regularly their incentive compensation arrangements based on these three principles. Where there are deficiencies in the incentive compensation arrangements, they should be promptly addressed. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization's safety and soundness, particularly if the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Similar to other large banking organizations, Comerica has been subject to a continuing review of incentive compensation policies and practices by representatives of the FRB, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Texas Department of Banking since 2011. As part of that review, Comerica has undertaken a thorough analysis of all the incentive compensation programs throughout the organization, the individuals covered by each plan and the risks inherent in each plan&#8217;s design and implementation. Comerica has determined that risks arising from employee compensation plans are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on Comerica. It is Comerica&#8217;s intent to continue monitoring regulations and best practices for sound incentive compensation practices. 

In 2016, the FRB, OCC and several other federal financial regulators revised and re-proposed rules to implement Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 956 directed regulators to jointly prescribe regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements, or any feature of any such arrangement, at covered financial institutions that encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss. This proposal would supplement the final guidance issued by the banking agencies in June 2010. Consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, the proposed rule would impose heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which includes Comerica. For these larger institutions, the proposed rule would require the deferral of at least 40 percent of incentive-based payments for designated executives and significant risk-takers who individually have the ability to expose the institution to possible losses that are substantial in relation to the institution's size, capital or overall risk tolerance. Moreover, incentive-based compensation of these individuals would be subject to potential clawback for seven years following vesting. Further, the rule would impose enhanced risk management controls and governance and internal policy and procedure requirements with respect to incentive compensation. Comerica is monitoring the development of this proposal. 

The Volcker Rule 

Comerica is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for its own account and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds ("Covered Funds"). The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting and trading in U.S. government and agency obligations, and permit certain ownership interests in certain types of Covered Funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of Covered Funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance and reporting obligations on banking entities. 

Comerica has compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in Covered Funds. 

Table of Contents 

In October 2019, the five federal agencies with rulemaking authority with respect to the Volcker Rule finalized changes designed to simplify compliance with the Volcker Rule. The final rule formalized a three-tiered approach to compliance program requirements for banking entities based on their level of trading activity. As a banking entity with &#8220;moderate&#8221; trading assets and liabilities (less than $20 billion), Comerica is subject to simplified compliance requirements. In June 2020, regulators finalized a rule further modifying the Volcker Rule&#8217;s prohibition on banking entities investing in or sponsoring Covered Funds. The final rule modifies three areas of the rule by: streamlining the covered funds portion of the rule; addressing the extraterritorial treatment of certain foreign funds; and permitting banking entities to offer financial services and engage in other activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. Comerica continues to follow Volcker Rule developments. 

Derivative Transactions 

As a state member bank, the Bank may engage in derivative transactions, as permitted by applicable Texas and federal law. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act contains a comprehensive framework for over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC&#8221;) derivatives transactions. Even though many of the requirements do not impact Comerica directly, since the Bank does not meet the definition of swap dealer or major swap participant, Comerica continues to review and evaluate the extent to which such requirements impact its business indirectly. On November 5, 2018, the CFTC issued a final rule that sets the permanent aggregate gross notional amount threshold for the de minimis exception from the definition of swap dealer at $8 billion in swap dealing activity entered into by a person over the preceding 12 months. Comerica's swap dealing activities for purposes of the de minimis exception are currently below this threshold. 

The initial margin requirements for non-centrally cleared swaps and security-based swaps were effective for Comerica&#8217;s swap and security-based swap counterparties that are swap dealers or major swap participants on September 1, 2022, and such counterparties are required to collect initial margin from Comerica. The initial margin requirements were issued for the purpose of ensuring safety and soundness of swap trading in light of the risk to the financial system associated with non-cleared swaps activity. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Certain Recent Consumer Finance Regulations 

Comerica is subject to regulation by the CFPB, which has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions and possesses examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, including the Bank, and their depository affiliates. Among other things, the CFPB is focused on reducing or eliminating so-called "junk fees" which include some sources of bank fee revenue. 

Comerica is also subject to certain state consumer protection laws, and under the Dodd-Frank Act, state attorneys general and other state officials are empowered to enforce certain federal consumer protection laws and regulations. In recent years, state authorities have increased their focus on and enforcement of consumer protection rules. These federal and state consumer protection laws apply to a broad range of Comerica&#8217;s activities and to various aspects of its business and include laws relating to interest rates, fair lending, disclosures of credit terms and estimated transaction costs to consumer borrowers, debt collection practices, the use of and the provision of information to consumer reporting agencies, and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services. 

UNDERWRITING APPROACH 

The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica's long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include: 

&#8226; People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers. 

&#8226; Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility. 

&#8226; Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment. 

&#8226; Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained. 

&#8226; Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk). 

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while maintaining competitiveness with other financial institutions. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk- 

Table of Contents 

adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower's ability to repay the principal and interest based on such rates. 

Credit Approval and Monitoring 

Approval of new loan exposure and oversight and monitoring of Comerica's loan portfolio is the joint responsibility of the Credit Risk Management and Decisioning department and the Credit Underwriting department (collectively referred to as &#8220;Credit&#8221;), plus the business units (&#8220;Line&#8221;). Credit assists the Line with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower's business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. The approval of new loan exposure is the joint responsibility of Credit Risk Management and Decisioning and the Line. Each commercial borrower relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Risk Management and Decisioning. Further, Credit updates the assigned internal risk rating as new information becomes available as a result of periodic reviews of credit quality, a change in borrower performance or approval of new loan exposure. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to support Comerica's risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk. Finally, the Line and Credit (including its Credit Analytics and Strategy department) work together to insure the overall credit risk within the loan portfolio is consistent with the Bank&#8217;s Credit Risk Appetite. 

Credit Policy 

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica's credit policies provide Line and Credit Personnel with a framework of sound underwriting practices and potential loan structures. These credit policies also provide the framework for loan committee approval authorities based on its internal risk-rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica's legal lending limit. Credit, in conjunction with the Line, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines require approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica's Chief Credit Officer and comprised of senior credit, market and risk management executives. 

Commercial Loan Portfolio 

Commercial loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below: 

&#8226; The borrower's business model and industry characteristics. 

&#8226; Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when appropriate. 

&#8226; The proforma financial condition including financial projections. 

&#8226; The borrower's sources and uses of funds. 

&#8226; The borrower's debt service capacity. 

&#8226; The guarantor's financial strength. 

&#8226; A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates. 

&#8226; Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate. 

For additional information specific to certain businesses within our commercial portfolio, please see the caption &#8220;Concentrations of Credit Risk" in the Financial Section of this report. 

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio 

Comerica's CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes loans to real estate developers and investors and loans secured by owner-occupied real estate. Comerica's CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators and are influenced by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor. For additional information specific to our CRE loan portfolio, please see the caption &#8220;Commercial Real Estate Lending&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report. 

Table of Contents 

Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios 

Comerica's consumer and residential mortgage loan underwriting includes an assessment of each borrower's personal financial condition, including a review of credit reports and related FICO scores (a type of credit score used to assess an applicant's credit risk) and verification of income and assets, as applicable. After origination, internal risk ratings are assigned based on payment status and product type. 

Comerica does not originate subprime loans. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios and elevated loan-to-value. Comerica generally considers subprime FICO scores to be those below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for unsecured loans. Residential mortgage loans retained in the portfolio are largely relationship based. The remaining loans are typically eligible to be sold on the secondary market. Adjustable-rate loans are limited to standard conventional loan programs. For additional information specific to our residential real estate loan portfolio, please see the caption &#8220;Residential Real Estate Lending&#8221; in the Financial Section of this report. 

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Comerica&#8217;s relationship banking strategy relies heavily on the personal relationships and the quality of service provided by employees. Accordingly, Comerica aims to attract, develop and retain employees who can drive financial and strategic growth objectives and build long-term shareholder value. Key items related to Comerica&#8217;s human capital resources are described below. 

Structure . As of December 31, 2023, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 7,496 full-time and 367 part-time employees, primarily located in Comerica&#8217;s primary markets of Michigan, Texas, California, Arizona, Florida and North Carolina. Comerica&#8217;s Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer reports directly to the Chairman, President and CEO and manages all aspects of the employee experience, including talent acquisition, diversity and inclusion, learning and development, talent management, compensation and benefits. 

The Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee of the Board reviews Comerica&#8217;s human capital management strategy and talent development program, including recruitment, evaluations and development activities. This Committee also reviews Comerica&#8217;s employee diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, as well as the results of those initiatives. The full Board, either directly or through one or more of its committees, is provided annual workforce updates. To enhance the Board&#8217;s understanding of Comerica's talent pipeline, the Board routinely meets with high-potential employees in formal and informal settings. 

Productivity . Comerica carefully manages the size of its workforce and reallocates resources as needed. As of December 31, 2023, Comerica&#8217;s total employee headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis, was 13 percent lower than as of December 31, 2015. Additionally, for 2023, Comerica managed an average of $16 million of loans and deposits per employee. 

Diversity Comerica has an organization-wide focus on an inclusive workforce that resembles the communities that it serves. As of December 31, 2023, Comerica&#8217;s U.S. colleagues had the following attributes: 

##TABLE_START Female (%) Minority (%) Employees 63 43 

Officials and Managers (1) 

53 31 

Executive Officers (2) 

37 21 ##TABLE_END (1) Based on EEO-1 job classifications. 

(2) Using Securities and Exchange Commission definition. 

Forbes recognized Comerica as "One of Dallas-Fort Worth's Top Workplaces." Newsweek listed Comerica in its 2024 list of America&#8217;s Greatest Workplaces for Diversity. The Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility rated Comerica with five stars &#8211; the highest marking &#8211; in the category of governance in its 2023 Corporate Inclusion Index. Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index (for LGBTQ+ equality) once again gave Comerica a perfect score of 100% in 2023. 

Comerica has thirteen Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), consisting of employees with common interests organized to promote professional development, social networking, awareness and inclusion, social impact and talent attraction and retention. The ERGs help support and sustain Comerica's diversity and inclusion model. These groups include All Abilities and Allies; Comerica African American Network; Comerica Asian and Pacific Islander Network; Comerica Asian Indian Association; Comerica Young Professionals Network; Comerica Quantitative Professionals Network; Jewish Heritage; PRISM &#8211; LGBTQ+; Mi Gente; The European Connection; Veteran&#8217;s Leadership Network; Women&#8217;s Forum; and Women in Technology. 

Table of Contents 

Compensation and Benefits . Comerica strives to provide pay, benefits and programs that help meet the varying needs of its employees. Compensation and benefits include market-competitive pay, retirement programs, broad-based bonuses, an employee stock purchase plan, health and welfare benefits, an employee assistance program, financial counseling, paid time off, family leave and flexible work schedules. In 2023, Comerica kept its minimum wage at $18 per hour. Additionally, for 2023, Comerica held the proportion that employees pay for their medical and dental benefits steady, absorbing proportional cost increases. Comerica periodically examines the main components of compensation, like salaries and bonuses, by grade level and position to ensure similar positions receive similar pay to the extent other factors can be equalized ( e.g. , time in position, performance, education). Comerica also considers equitable benefits and looks at policies and practices that potentially drive inequities. Solicitation of salary history from applicants is prohibited. 

Attraction, Development and Retention . Comerica measures the success of its talent acquisition strategy on speed and quality of acquisition, diversity of its applicant pool, and new colleague retention. In addition, overall performance metrics are tracked for each key business line. Sourcing strategies and support structures are evaluated and modified to ensure that performance targets are met consistently. 

Comerica operates and continues to evolve multiple internal programs to support the development and retention of its colleagues, including Comerica University, internal Leadership Development, Emerging Leaders, and Senior Leadership programs designed to develop high potential employees, a Future-Ready Technology skills program to help re- and up-skill Technology colleagues, a Managing Essentials Certificate series for managers and organizational change management learning for all colleagues. In 2023, over 14,000 skills-based titles were offered to Comerica colleagues and an average of around 24 hours of training per employee were completed. Comerica also supports its employees&#8217; involvement in external development programs and volunteerism. All full-time colleagues are granted up to 8 hours of PTO annually, and all part-time colleagues are granted up to 4 hours of PTO annually to use for volunteer events. This includes volunteer opportunities related and unrelated to Comerica. 

Comerica&#8217;s investment in its employees has resulted in a long-tenured workforce, with average tenure of around 12 years of service. Of the approximately 2,330 open employee positions filled in 2023, 61% were filled by external hires and 39% positions were filled by internal hires. Employee turnover for 2023 was approximately 15%. In 2023, Comerica conducted its third enterprise-wide employee engagement survey, with approximately 85% of colleagues participating. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Comerica maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should regularly review that website because Comerica regularly and routinely posts other important information there, particularly in the "Investor Relations" portion of the website. 

The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201. 

In addition, pursuant to regulations adopted by the FRB, Comerica makes additional regulatory capital-related disclosures. Under these regulations, Comerica satisfies a portion of these requirements through postings on its website, and Comerica has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC. 

Where we have included web addresses in this report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this report, information on those websites is not part hereof. 

