Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and the table of contents maintained:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2021_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investors Look Past China for Asia IPOs ................................................................................................................. 2
          Banker Mints Money in the Fintech Boom --- Steve McLaughlin was financier to industry before it was cool; today,
          he rules..................................................................................................................................................................... 4
          Rich Millennials Skip the Adviser ............................................................................................................................. 8
          Business News: Evercore Names Weinberg Sole CEO......................................................................................... 10
          EXCHANGE --- Walmart's New Venture Is a Fintech Startup................................................................................ 12
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          InvestorsLookPastChinaforAsiaIPOs                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Investors Look Past China for Asia IPOs                                 
          By Jing Yang and Dave Sebastian                                         
          787 words                                                               
          31 December 2021                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          For investors looking to bet on new share offerings in Asia, the center of gravity is shifting away from China.
          In a year during which Beijing's regulatory assaults on its companies riled the market and upended a
          yearslong record of great returns from Chinese new-economy stocks, India, South Korea and Southeast Asia
          have become alternative sources of alluring, big-ticket initial public offerings.
          "One significant trend this year was investors getting more interested in markets beyond China. These
          markets are busier than they have been historically," said William Smiley, co-head of equity capital markets in
          Asia ex-Japan at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.                               
          Chinese, South Korean and Indian companies generated the most number of large listings in the Asia-Pacific
          region this year, according to Dealogic data. The figures exclude listings in Japan, often viewed by investors
          as a distinct market, and mainland China's onshore A-share market, where new share sales aren't easily
          accessible by foreign investors.                                        
          While China still led the pack with 15 IPOs of $500 million or more, the performance of these stocks has been
          underwhelming, dropping more than 35% on average as of Dec. 28, according to Dealogic data. Short-video
          streaming platform Kuaishou Technology, which raised $6.2 billion in February in the Hong Kong stock
          exchange in the region's biggest IPO this year, was recently down about 40% from its IPO price.
          In contrast, South Korean and Indian IPOs have seen handsome returns on average, at 42% and 23%,
          respectively, according to Dealogic data. Those figures are despite a few high-profile misfires, such as the
          listing of One97 Communications Ltd., the parent company of Indian fintech giant Paytm.
          Among the region's top 10 best-performing big IPOs, five are from South Korea and three are from India.
          Vaccine developer SK Bioscience Co. and fintech player Kakaopay Corp., which are both from South Korea,
          and Indian delivery platform Zomato Ltd. are among the top gainers.     
          The trend is set to continue, as more unicorns -- private companies valued at more than $1 billion -- in these
          markets become ready to go public, bankers and investors say. Some banks are adapting in response.
                                                                                  
          "While we continue to be very long China, we have adjusted resources to capture opportunities in other
          markets in the region, which could continue to be bright spots for us next year," said Selina Cheung, co-head
          of equity capital markets, Asia, at UBS Group AG.                       
          "What will be different for at least the first half of next year is some investors will pay increasing attention to
          other parts of Asia," she said.                                         
          India will also see a large pipeline of new issues by unicorns, according to Mr. Smiley at Goldman.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BankerMintsMoneyintheFintechBoom---SteveMcLaughlinwasfinanciertoindustrybeforeitwascool;today,herules
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Banker Mints Money in the Fintech Boom --- Steve McLaughlin was financier to industry before it was
          cool; today, he rules                                                   
          By Peter Rudegeair and Liz Hoffman                                      
          1,441 words                                                             
          6 December 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Silicon Valley has minted plenty of billionaire entrepreneurs. Here's one who has never written a line of code.
          In 2002 Steve McLaughlin left his job at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to start an investment bank from his San
          Francisco apartment. His specialty was financial-technology startups, then a backwater. Today the fintech
          sector, where coders seek to reinvent the humdrum world of banking as something slicker and even fun, is
          booming, and the 52-year-old Mr. McLaughlin is its unlikely mogul.      
          Compensation of deal makers is as hazy as it is large -- millions here, millions there. But Mr. McLaughlin's
          peers and competitors agree that, as best as anyone can reckon, he is comfortably the highest-paid
          investment banker in America.                                           
          His firm, Financial Technology Partners LP, is on track for some $600 million in revenue this year, according
          to people familiar with the matter. Valuations of similar listed firms would peg its value at $2 billion or more.
          Mr. McLaughlin owns it all, having doled out none of the firm's equity to its 225 or so employees.
          Its playbook combines the advice-giving of traditional investment banks and the motivated profit-seeking of
          private equity, with fees that often ratchet up as a percentage of the sale prices it fetches for clients. And Mr.
          McLaughlin has also invested personally in companies he advises, with stakes in just two of them,
          AvidXchange Holdings Inc. and Marqeta Inc., valued at more than a combined $350 million, according to
          securities filings and people familiar with the matter.                 
          Page 4 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          RichMillennialsSkiptheAdviser                                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Rich Millennials Skip the Adviser                                       
          By Rachel Louise Ensign and Peter Rudegeair                             
          964 words                                                               
          9 November 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Michael Martocci, a 26-year-old startup founder, ignores the golf invitations and other solicitations from the
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. financial adviser trying to land him as a client.
          Eighteen holes isn't particularly appealing to the Miami-based Mr. Martocci, and neither is paying for financial
          advice. Instead, he oversees his hundreds of thousands of dollars in investments himself. He funnels 90% of
          his money into cryptocurrency. To check his stocks, he pulls up Robinhood Markets Inc. on his phone.
          "It's easy to manage $500,000, $1 million yourself," said Mr. Martocci, who spends less than an hour a week
          monitoring investments.                                                 
          More rich young investors are opting to go without a traditional financial adviser. Instead, they are betting they
          can get good-enough investment options from do-it-yourself digital platforms that are cheap and easy to use.
          Many want to invest in riskier assets, like cryptocurrencies and tech startups, that mainstream advisers often
          don't offer.                                                            
          About 70% of households with a net worth of $500,000 or more headed by a person under 45 had an
          investing style that was either strongly or mostly self-directed in 2019, up from 57% in 2010, according to an
          analysis of Federal Reserve data by research firm Aite-Novarica Group. Nearly half of those households
          aimed to take an above-average level of risk in exchange for an above-average rate of return, up from 35% in
          2010, the analysis found.                                               
          The wealth-management businesses at top firms like Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.'s Merrill
          Lynch continue to mint profits with moneyed older clients. But competition from digital upstarts is growing,
          and traditional firms know they need to attract the next generation of lucrative customers.
          Advisers say they do far more than just put a client's money into stocks and bonds. They can help clients map
          out financial goals and prevent them from making rash decisions. They can also handle complex portfolio
          rebalancing and tax planning for busy professionals.                    
          Merrill said it has diversified its adviser force and improved its technology. People under 45 made up 20% of
          new clients this year, up from 10% five years earlier, the firm said. Morgan Stanley has spent billions of
          dollars in recent years buying firms that it hopes will help it attract younger clients, like online broker E*Trade
          and employee-stock-plan administrator Solium.                           
          Wealth-management firms also offer clients special access to some alternative investments, such as funds
          tied to private equity. But many either restrict or ban crypto investments and provide limited access to shares
          in pre-IPO companies.                                                   
          Big firms are wagering that reluctant young people may hire an adviser when they are older. "When you start
          to go from the wealth-accumulation phase to the retirement phase, the world gets much more complicated,"
          said Jed Finn, chief operating officer of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management and head of corporate and
          institutional solutions. "People don't think they need advice until they need advice."
          Studies suggest that advisers can get caught up in chasing hot stocks, much like individual traders. During
          the 2008-09 financial crisis, financial planners often sold their clients' stocks as the market fell.
                                                                                  
          Still, when markets are rising as they are now -- U.S. stock indexes have hit records this year -- it is easy for
          professional and amateur investors alike to look smart.                 
          When Travis Chambers, 33, landed a $9 million windfall from selling part of his advertising agency this year,
          he interviewed four financial advisers over video. He thought they put too little effort into explaining how their
          investments were unique and worth the fees. And none of them brought up crypto or real estate, the
          investments that most interested him.                                   
          Page 8 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:EvercoreNamesWeinbergSoleCEO                               
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: Evercore Names Weinberg Sole CEO                         
          By Liz Hoffman and Cara Lombardo                                        
          323 words                                                               
          27 October 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B7                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Evercore Inc. is naming John Weinberg as its sole chief executive, five years after recruiting the former
          Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker -- and scion of a Wall Street dynasty -- to the investment bank.
          Ralph Schlosstein, who has held the job since 2009 and shared it for the past year with Mr. Weinberg, will
          step down in February. The handoff is the last step in a yearslong leadership transition in which the firm's
          founder, Roger Altman, a fixture on Wall Street and Washington for four decades, gradually stepped back.
          Mr. Schlosstein said in a joint interview that he identified Mr. Weinberg as his ideal successor more than six
          years ago while wooing the banker from Goldman. Mr. Schlosstein offered him the co-CEO job when he
          joined in 2016, but Mr. Weinberg demurred. "He said, 'Let's see how it works,'" Mr. Schlosstein said. Now, he
          said, "John is more than ready."                                        
          Mr. Altman brought in Mr. Schlosstein, now 70 years old, in 2009 as CEO and last year promoted Mr.
          Weinberg to share the role with the understanding that the job would eventually be his alone.
          Mr. Altman, who started Evercore in 1995 after leaving the Treasury Department, remains Evercore's senior
          chairman. "Nobody looks at my business card," Mr. Altman said in the interview.
          Now 75, Mr. Altman continues to advise clients and worked on deals including Qualcomm Inc.'s $4.5 billion
          deal for auto-technology company Veoneer Inc. this month. Mr. Schlosstein said that Mr. Altman stepped out
          of Evercore's board meeting Tuesday, as the transition was being formally approved, to take a client call.
                                                                                  
          Mr. Weinberg, 64, is Wall Street royalty. His grandfather and father ran Goldman Sachs for the better part of
          six decades. His cousin, Peter Weinberg, is a former senior executive at Goldman and now runs investment
          bank Perella Weinberg Partners.                                         
                                                                                  
          Page 10 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---Walmart'sNewVentureIsaFintechStartup                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- Walmart's New Venture Is a Fintech Startup                 
          By Sarah Nassauer and Peter Rudegeair                                   
          609 words                                                               
          16 October 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Walmart Inc. is building a new weapon in its war with Amazon.com Inc.: a fintech startup.
          The retail giant is helping launch a new company, helmed by two former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
          executives, that aims to provide financial services for its millions of customers and workers. The firm is a joint
          venture with Ribbit Capital, known for investing in Robinhood Markets Inc. and other digital financial
          businesses.                                                             
          Options under consideration include building a user base around mobile payments, as well as potentially
          buying a startup that offers consumer bank accounts through a mobile app, known as a neobank, according
          to people familiar with the situation.                                  
          The venture doesn't plan to seek a banking license, according to the people.
          Walmart is the majority owner of the business, which has yet to be named publicly. The venture has hundreds
          of millions of dollars in commitments from its new backers, the people said, and it is likely to acquire other
          companies to jump-start the business, not build the bulk of the technology in-house.
                                                                                  
          Executives at the new company, including Omer Ismail, former head of Goldman's consumer banking unit
          called Marcus, and David Stark, a top executive at Marcus, officially started in August and plans are still in
          flux, the people said. The startup recently hired Chris Faught, a former Apple Inc. and Affirm Holdings Inc.
          executive, to help craft its strategy, the people said.                 
          Mr. Ismail and Mr. Stark are rerunning some of the same plays at the new venture as they did at Goldman.
          Acquisitions of companies including budgeting app Clarity Money helped Marcus add engineers and speed
          up its entry into new products and services. At the Walmart-Ribbit venture, the two executives have held deal
          talks with dozens of startups, the people said.                         
          Page 12 of 13 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
```