Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to "american_express_company_2021_Q4" while preserving the original formatting and table of contents:

```
american_express_company_2021_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- AmEx Unit Joins Apollo To Go Public Via SPAC ........................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---AmExUnitJoinsApolloToGoPublicViaSPAC                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- AmEx Unit Joins Apollo To Go Public Via SPAC               
          By Amrith Ramkumar                                                      
          609 words                                                               
          4 December 2021                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          American Express Global Business Travel is merging with a blank-check company backed by Apollo Global
          Management Inc. to go public with a roughly $5.3 billion valuation, the companies said.
          A travel-booking services provider for corporate customers, AmEx Global Business Travel is 50%-owned by
          American Express Co. It is combining with the special-purpose acquisition company Apollo Strategic Growth
          Capital. The Wall Street Journal previously reported the two sides were nearing a deal.
          The merger represents a vote of investor confidence in business travel despite a bumpy 2021 recovery in the
          industry.                                                               
          Although business travel is bouncing back as more people are vaccinated, new Covid-19 variants and travel
          restrictions continue to emerge and keep activity well below pre-pandemic levels. Paul Abbott, chief executive
          officer of American Express Global Business Travel, responded to plunging sales at the start of the pandemic
          by cutting costs.                                                       
          In May 2020 the private-equity firm Carlyle Group Inc. and the Singapore sovereign-wealth fund GIC Pte. Ltd.
          backed away from a deal to take a 20% stake in the company after it was hit by the pandemic. That
          transaction would have valued it at about $5 billion, including debt.   
          The company has since made several deals, including the acquisition of the digital travel platform Egencia
          from Expedia Group Inc. As part of that transaction, Expedia became an AmEx Global Business Travel
          investor. AmEx Global Business Travel also bought an artificial-intelligence business-travel startup,
          30SecondsToFly, and Ovation Travel Group in recent months.              
          "The pandemic has created challenges, but it has also created significant opportunities," Mr. Abbott said. "We
          have this huge runway for growth ahead of us."                          
                                                                                  
          SPAC mergers such as the company's deal with Apollo Strategic Growth Capital have exploded in the past
          year, in part because they allow companies to raise large sums of money and accelerate growth. Companies
          going public in SPAC deals can make business projections, which aren't allowed in traditional initial public
          offerings.                                                              
          London-based American Express Global Business Travel is raising about $335 million in a private investment
          in public equity, or PIPE, associated with the merger. PIPE investors include Zoom Video Communications
          Inc., the travel technology firm Sabre Corp. and Apollo Global Management.
          The Apollo SPAC has about $815 million, making it the 12th-largest out of the 550 blank-check companies
          that hadn't announced deals as of Wednesday, according to SPAC Research.
          AmEx Global Business Travel has commitments for a roughly $1 billion term-loan facility, some of which
          could be used for existing debt and some of which could cover other corporate costs, including any SPAC
          investor withdrawals before the deal is completed. Such withdrawals have become common in recent months
          because of low share prices.                                            
          The Apollo SPAC is the first blank-check company fully backed by Apollo Global Management. Another
          Apollo SPAC raised nearly $700 million in February. Many large private-equity and investment firms now
          launch their own SPACs, in part because the unique incentives granted to creators allow them to make
          several times their initial investment.                                 
          AmEx Global Business Travel became its own entity in 2014, when American Express sold half of the
          corporate-travel business to a group of investors led by Certares LP.   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          A SPAC, or blank-check company, is a shell entity that raises money and begins trading on a stock exchange
          with the purpose of merging with a private firm to take it public. After the private firm files detailed financial
          statements with regulators and the deal is approved, it replaces the SPAC in the stock market.
          Document J000000020211204ehc40001j                                      
                                                                                  
```