 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Webster Financial Corporation is a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHC Act, incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1986, and headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. Webster Bank, and its HSA Bank Division, is a leading commercial bank in the Northeast that provides a wide range of digital and traditional financial solutions across three differentiated lines of business: Commercial Banking, HSA Bank, and Consumer Banking. While its core footprint spans the northeastern U.S. from New York to Massachusetts, certain businesses operate in extended geographies. HSA Bank is one of the largest providers of employee benefits solutions in the U.S. 

Available Information 

The Company files reports with the SEC, and makes available, free of charge, within the investor relations section of its internet website (http://investors.websterbank.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC website (http://www.sec.gov) makes reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC available to the public free of charge. Information contained on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

On January 31, 2022, the Company completed its merger with Sterling. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Sterling Bancorp merged with and into the Holding Company, with the Holding Company continuing as the surviving corporation. Following the merger, on February 1, 2022, Sterling National Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sterling Bancorp, merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank continuing as the surviving bank. Sterling was a full-service regional bank headquartered in Pearl River, New York, that primarily served the Greater New York metropolitan area. The merger expanded the Company's geographic footprint and combined two complementary organizations to create one of the largest commercial banks in the northeastern U.S. 

On February 18, 2022, the Bank acquired Bend, a cloud-based platform solution provider for HSAs. The acquisition accelerated the Company's efforts underway to deliver enhanced user experiences at HSA Bank. 

On January 11, 2023, the Bank acquired interLINK, a technology-enabled deposit management platform that administers over $9 billion of deposits from FDIC-insured cash sweep programs between banks and broker/dealers and clearing firms. The acquisition provided the Company with access to a unique source of core deposit funding and scalable liquidity and added another technology-enabled channel to its already differentiated, omnichannel deposit gathering capabilities. 

On January 24, 2024, the Bank acquired Ametros, a custodian and administrator of medical funds from insurance claims settlements that helps individuals manage their ongoing medical care through its CareGuard service and proprietary technology platform. The Company believes that the acquisition will provide a fast-growing source of low-cost and long-duration deposits, new sources of non-interest income, and enhance its employee benefit and healthcare financial services expertise. 

Additional information regarding the Company's mergers and acquisitions can be found in Part II under the section captioned "Recent Developments" contained in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and within Note 2: Mergers and Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Subsidiaries and Reportable Segments 

The Holding Company's principal consolidated subsidiary is the Bank. As of December 31, 2023, the Bank's significant wholly-owned subsidiaries included: Webster Servicing LLC, Webster Public Finance Corporation, Sterling National Funding Corporation, Webster Mortgage Investment Corporation, Sterling Business Credit LLC, Webster Wealth Advisors, Inc., Webster Licensing, LLC, Bend Financial, Inc., Interlink Insured Sweep LLC, Webster Investment Services, Inc., Webster Preferred Capital Corporation, and Webster Community Development Corporation. 

As of December 31, 2023, the Company's operations are organized into three reportable segments that represent its primary businesses: Commercial Banking, HSA Bank, and Consumer Banking. 

Commercial Banking serves businesses with more than $2 million of revenue through its Commercial Real Estate and Equipment Finance, Middle Market, Business Banking, Asset-Based Lending and Commercial Services, Public Sector Finance, Mortgage Warehouse, Sponsor and Specialty Finance, Verticals and Support, Private Banking, and Treasury Management business units. 

&#8226; Commercial Real Estate offers financing alternatives for the purpose of acquiring, developing, constructing, improving, or refinancing commercial real estate, in which loans are typically secured by institutional-quality real estate, including apartments, anchored retail, industrial, office, and student and affordable housing properties, and where the income generated from the secured property is the primary repayment source. 

&#8226; Equipment Finance offers small to mid-ticket equipment leasing solutions for critical equipment, new or used, across the manufacturing, construction and transportation, and environmental sectors. 

&#8226; Middle Market offers a broad range of financial services to a diversified group of companies delivering competitive products and solutions that meet their specific middle market needs. 

&#8226; Business Banking offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management products to businesses and professional service firms. 

&#8226; Asset-Based Lending, which is a top U.S. asset-based lender, offers asset-based loans and revolving credit facilities by financing core working capital with advance rates against inventory, accounts receivable, equipment, or other property owned by the borrower. 

&#8226; Commercial Services offers accounts receivable factoring and trade financing, and payroll funding and business process outsourcing to temporary staffing agencies nationwide, including full back-office, technology, and tax accounting services. 

&#8226; Public Sector Finance offers financing solutions exclusively to state, municipal, and local government entities. 

&#8226; Mortgage Warehouse offers warehouse financing facilities consisting of temporary lines of credit, and which are secured by 1-4 family residential mortgages, to independent mortgage origination companies. 

&#8226; Sponsor and Specialty Finance offers senior debt capital to companies across the U.S. that are backed by private equity sponsors and/or privately owned in one of our specialty industries: technology and infrastructure, healthcare, environmental services, business and information services, lender finance, and fund banking. 

&#8226; Verticals and Support offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management to businesses and professional service firms in the legal, not-for-profit, and property management sectors, as well as to local and state governments. 

&#8226; Private Banking offers an array of wealth management solutions to business owners and operators, including trust, asset management, financial planning, insurance, retirement, and investment products. 

&#8226; Treasury Management offers derivative, treasury, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and trade products and services, through a dedicated team of treasury professionals and local commercial bankers, to help its business and institutional customers enhance liquidity, improve operations, and reduce risk. 

HSA Bank , serviced through Webster Servicing LLC, offers a comprehensive consumer-directed employee benefit and healthcare solution that includes HSAs, health reimbursement arrangements, flexible spending accounts, and commuter benefits. HSAs are used in conjunction with high deductible health plans in order to facilitate tax advantages for account holders with respect to health care spending and savings. HSAs are distributed nationwide through employers for and to individual consumers, as well as through national and regional insurance carriers, benefit consultants, and financial advisors. HSA deposits provide long-duration, low-cost funding that is used to minimize the Bank's use of wholesale funding in support of its loan growth. Non-interest revenue is generated predominantly through service fees and interchange income. 

Consumer Banking operates a distribution network, primarily throughout southern New England and the New York metro and suburban markets, that comprises 198 banking centers and 349 ATMs, a customer care center, and a full range of web and mobile-based banking services. Consumer Banking's business units consist of Consumer Lending and Small Business Banking. 

&#8226; Consumer Lending offers consumer deposit and fee-based services, residential mortgages, home equity lines, secured and unsecured loans, and credit card products. 

&#8226; Small Business Banking offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management products targeted to businesses and professional service firms with annual revenues of up to $2 million. 

Additional information regarding the Company's reportable segments can be found in Part II under the section captioned "Segment Reporting" contained in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and within Note 21: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Human Capital Resources 

At December 31, 2023, the Company had 4,131 full-time employees and 130 part-time employees, comprised of 61% female and 39% male employees. The average full-time and part-time employee tenure at the Company is approximately 9.0 years. 

Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging 

The Company believes DEIB is critical to its growth and success as a leading commercial bank. The Company's commitment to DEIB starts with the senior leadership team, who works to ensure that DEIB is integrated into the way the Company does business. Meeting the increasingly diverse needs of clients is a key to the Company&#8217;s long-term success, and having a workforce with diverse backgrounds and experiences better helps the clients and communities that the Company serves to achieve their financial goals. 

The Company has established a DEIB Council, which serves as a platform where senior leaders and representatives of various internal business resource groups meet quarterly to shape the strategy and actions of the Company&#8217;s DEIB efforts. The DEIB Council is comprised of 39 employee members across the organization and is co-chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President of Business Banking. The DEIB Council makes recommendations on ways to integrate DEIB in the areas of education and awareness, talent development, employee engagement, and client and community service, and reports quarterly to the Company&#8217;s Corporate Responsibility Committee. The Company's Senior Managing Director of DEIB is responsible for strengthening DEIB efforts with employees, clients, and community partners, and promoting a diverse workforce in an open, inclusive environment. 

In 2022, the Company developed diversity scorecards to measure the recruitment, retention, and promotion of underrepresented groups, reinforcing that DEIB is a driver of performance. Notable progress was made in 2023 in the areas of diversity turnover, diversity tenure, and DEIB learning and development training hours, with all three indicators exceeding 2023 goals. Areas of focus for 2024 through 2026 include the percentage of Senior Managing Directors and above who are women and/or persons of color, new hire diversity, and the diversity promotion rate. 

Compensation and Benefits 

The Company's compensation program is designed to attract, retain, and reward performance and align incentives with the achievement of strategic goals and both short- and long-term operating objectives. The Company has an Incentive Compensation Oversight Committee that reviews and approves all business-line incentives and sales plans each year, which ensures consistent governance and behavior. The Company&#8217;s Rewards and Recognition Program drives a culture of appreciation, recognizes leadership, and provides employees with meaningful monetary awards, as well as non-monetary recognition. 

Competitive benefits packages that reflect the needs of the Company&#8217;s workforce are offered to employees, which include medical, dental, and vision plans, prescription benefits, life insurance and disability benefits, HSAs, wellness incentives, health coaching, and telemedicine, as well as paid parental leave, paid time off and paid holidays, matching 401(k) retirement savings plans, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, Employee Assistance Program, back-up child and elder care, Student Loan Repayment Program, pet insurance, and other wellness programs. Benefit plans are continually reviewed and evolved as necessary to remain competitive and meet the needs of the Company&#8217;s workforce. 

Learning and Development 

The Company is focused on investing in its current and future talent by actively supporting the success, growth, and career progression of its employees. Employees have access to more than 490 courses offered through Webster Bank University, the Company's internal learning resource that offers on-demand webinars, e-learning, and in-person learning programs. The Company also provides unlimited access to self-directed e-learning courses taught by industry experts with curated learning paths that are designed specifically for their professional interests through the Company's LinkedIn partnership. 

The Company is committed to building and strengthening its workforce for the future with professional and career development programs that go well beyond the immediate skills needed for a current role. In 2023, the Company offered 65 different professional development courses, of which nine were instructor-led programs offered multiple times throughout the year, and and 49 leadership skill development programs. More than 1,500 employees took advantage of and participated in these programs collectively. 

The Company makes significant investments in formal development programs to build its talent pipeline. In 2023, the Company&#8217;s internship program hosted 25 individuals, who worked in eight lines of business across the bank. In addition, the Company&#8217;s Rotational Program offers early-career, high potential college graduates rotating assignments throughout the bank over either an eighteen month or a two-year period, with tracks in Commercial Banking, Finance, HSA Bank, Audit, and Consumer Bank. After completing the program, all 13 Rotational Analysts were hired in 2023. 

In 2023, the Company launched The RISE Emerging Talent Program with 21 high-potential individual contributors who are likely to move into a management role or a role with more responsibility. This hybrid program gives participants a chance to learn with peers from across the Bank with three days in the classroom and the balance through virtual instructor led training. 

Competition 

The Company is subject to strong competition from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, consumer finance companies, investment companies, insurance companies, online lending and savings institutions, and other non-bank financial services companies. Certain of these competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of commercial and consumer banking services than the Company. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-bank organizations including financial technology companies, greater technological developments in the industry, and continued bank regulatory reforms. 

The Company faces substantial competition for deposits and loans throughout its market areas. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of office locations and hours, mobile banking, and other automated services. Competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, money market mutual funds, financial technology companies, and other non-bank financial services companies. The primary factors in competing for commercial and consumer loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, ease and convenience of loan origination channels, the quality and range of lending services, personalized service, and the ability to close within each customer's desired time frame. Competition for the origination of loans comes primarily from commercial banks, non-bank lenders, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, mortgage brokers, online lenders, and insurance companies. Other factors that affect competition include the general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, and volatility in the lending markets. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Holding Company and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institutions is intended to protect depositors, the FDIF, consumers, and the U.S. banking system as a whole. 

Set forth in the paragraphs below is a summary of the significant elements of the laws and regulations applicable to the Holding Company and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. Changes in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to the Holding Company and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries, including how they are implemented or interpreted, could have a material effect on the results of the Company. 

Regulatory Agencies 

The Holding Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a registered bank holding company and a financial holding company, Webster Financial Corporation is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination, and supervision by its primary federal regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. As a publicly-traded company, Webster is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both of which are administered by the SEC. As a publicly-traded company with securities listed on the NYSE, Webster is subject to the rules of the NYSE. 

The Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Bank Act, as amended, and is subject to the supervision of and regular examination by the OCC, its primary federal regulator, as well as by the FDIC, its deposit insurer. As a national banking association, the Bank derives its lending, investment, and other bank activity powers from the National Bank Act, as amended, and the regulations of the OCC promulgated thereunder. In addition, the CFPB supervises the Bank to ensure compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. 

The Holding Company&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and other applicable federal and state agencies. 

Bank Holding Company Activities 

In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing, or controlling banks and other activities that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined to be closely related to banking. Bank holding companies that qualify and elect to become financial holding companies, such as Webster Financial Corporation, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury), or complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system (as solely determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting, and merchant banking. If a financial holding company or its bank ceases to be well capitalized or well managed, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements and activity restrictions. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

Under the BHC Act, prior approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is required in order for any bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank, or merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Generally, the Holding Company is not required to obtain prior approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to acquire a non-bank that engages in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as long as the Holding Company meets the capital, managerial, and CRA requirements to qualify as a financial holding company. However, the Holding Company is required to receive prior approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for an acquisition in which the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceeds $10 billion. 

Pursuant to Section 18(c) of the FDIA, more commonly known as the Bank Merger Act, and for national banks relying on certain other sources of merger authority, prior written approval from a bank's primary federal regulator is required before any insured depository institution may consummate a merger transaction, which includes a merger, consolidation, assumption of deposit liabilities, and certain asset transfers between or among two or more institutions. Prior written approval of a bank's primary federal regulator is also required for merger transactions between or among affiliated institutions, as well as for merger transactions between or among non-affiliated institutions. Transactions that do not involve a transfer of deposit liabilities typically do not require prior approval under the Bank Merger Act unless the transaction involves the acquisition of all or substantially all of an institution's assets. When evaluating and acting on proposed merger transactions, regulators consider the extent of existing competition between and among the merging institutions, other depository institutions, and other providers of similar or equivalent services in the relevant product and geographic markets, the convenience and needs of the community to be served, capital adequacy and earnings prospects, and the effectiveness the merger institutions in combating money-laundering activities, among other factors. 

Further, the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 generally prohibits any person, acting directly or indirectly or in concert with other persons, from acquiring control of a covered institution without providing at least 60 days prior written notice to the FDIC or upon receipt of written notice that the FDIC does not disapprove of the acquisition. 

Capital Adequacy 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the OCC, and the FDIC have adopted the regulatory capital standards in accordance with Basel III, as developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel III Capital Rules strengthened international capital adequacy standards by increasing institutions' minimum capital requirements and holdings of high-quality liquid assets and decreasing bank leverage. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company's assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are subject to risk weights used to determine risk-weighted assets. Risk weights can range from 0% for U.S. government securities to 1,250% for certain tranches of complex securitization or equity exposures. Risk-weighted assets serve as the base against which regulatory capital is measured, and are used to calculate the Holding Company's and the Bank's minimum capital ratios of CET1 Risk-Based Capital, Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital, Total Risk-Based Capital, and Tier 1 Leverage Capital, as defined in the regulations, which the Company is required to maintain. CET1 capital consists of common stockholders' equity less deductions for goodwill and other intangible assets, and certain deferred tax adjustments. At the time of initial adoption of the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company had elected to opt-out of the requirement to include certain components of AOCI in CET1 capital. Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 capital plus preferred stock. Total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, as defined in the regulations. Tier 2 capital includes qualifying subordinated debt and the permissible portion of the ACL. 

The following table summarizes the ratio thresholds applicable to the Company pursuant to the Basel III Capital Rules as of December 31, 2023: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Adequately Capitalized Well Capitalized CET1 Risk-Based Capital 4.5 % 6.5 % Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital 6.0 8.0 Total Risk-Based Capital 8.0 10.0 Tier 1 Leverage Capital 4.0 5.0 ##TABLE_END

In addition, the Basel III Capital Rules mandate that most deductions from or adjustments to regulatory capital be made to CET1 capital, not to the other components. For instance, the deduction of mortgage servicing assets, certain DTAs, and capital investments in unconsolidated financial institutions is required to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 capital or exceeds 15% of CET1 capital in the aggregate. 

The Basel III Capital Rules also include a capital conservation buffer comprised entirely of CET1 capital, which is considered in addition to the 4.5% CET1 capital ratio and is equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets for both the Holding Company and the Bank. This buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress, and is generally required in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

On August 26, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that provided banking organizations that had implemented CECL during 2020, the option to delay an estimate of CECL's effect on regulatory capital for two years ending on January 1, 2022, followed by a three-year transition period ending on December 31, 2024. The Company elected to utilize the 2020 capital transition relief and delayed the regulatory capital impact of adopting CECL. Both the Holding Company's and the Bank's ratios remain in excess of being well-capitalized, even without the benefit of the delayed CECL adoption impact. Additional information regarding the delayed CECL adoption impact on regulatory capital can be found in Part II under the section captioned "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and within Note 13: Regulatory Matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

Pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA, the federal banking agencies are required to take prompt corrective action if an insured depository institution fails to meet certain capital adequacy standards. The following table summarizes the prompt corrective action categories: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Well Adequately Under Significantly Capitalized Capitalized Capitalized Under Capitalized CET1 Risk-Based Capital 6.5 % 4.5 % &#60; 4.5% &#60; 3.0% Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital 8.0 6.0 &#60; 6.0 &#60; 4.0 Total Risk-Based Capital 10.0 8.0 &#60; 8.0 &#60; 6.0 Tier 1 Leverage Capital 5.0 4.0 &#60; 4.0 &#60; 3.0 ##TABLE_END

Each of the Bank's capital ratios exceeded those required for an insured depository institution to be considered well capitalized at December 31, 2023. 

In addition, an insured depository institution with a ratio of tangible equity less than or equal to 2% is considered to be critically under capitalized. If an insured depository institution has been determined, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to be in an unsafe or unsound condition, or if it receives a less-than-satisfactory rating for asset quality, management, earnings, or liquidity in its most recent examination, the appropriate federal banking agency may downgrade a well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or under capitalized insured depository institution to the next lower capital category. 

All insured depository institutions, regardless of their capital category, are prohibited from making capital distributions or paying management fees if such distributions or payments would result in the insured depository institution becoming under capitalized, unless it is shown that the capital distribution would improve financial condition, or the management fee is being paid to a person or entity without a controlling interest in the insured depository institution. Restrictions are placed on certain brokered deposit activity and on deposit rates offered as the capital category declines below well capitalized. Further, if an insured depository institution receives notice that it is under capitalized, significantly under capitalized, or critically under capitalized, the insured depository institution generally must file a written capital restoration plan with the appropriate federal banking agency within 45 days of receipt, and the bank holding company must guarantee the performance of that plan. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System established enhanced prudential standards for larger bank holding companies based on size and certain risk-based indicators. On October 10, 2019, the Federal Reserve Board, along with other federal bank regulatory agencies, tailored these prudential standards allowing bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or less to be exempt from certain enhanced capital and liquidity prudential standards, including company-run stress testing, capital planning, liquidity coverage ratio, and resolution planning requirements, among others. Although the Holding Company's total consolidated assets are beneath the $250 billion threshold, the Company performs certain stress tests internally and incorporates the economic models and information developed through its stress testing program into its risk management and capital planning activities, which continue to be subject to the regular supervisory processes of the Federal Reserve System and the OCC. 

In addition, publicly-traded bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to maintain a risk committee that is responsible for the oversight of enterprise risk management practices and that meets other statutory requirements. The Company maintains a standing Risk Committee of the Board of Directors that oversees its risk management program. 

Volcker Rule 

The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, such as the Holding Company and the Bank, from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures, and options on these investments for their own account, and imposes limits on investments in, and other relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. Banking entities with significant trading operations (those with between $1 and $20 billion in average trading assets and liabilities) are subject to a simplified Volcker Rule compliance program. The Company has incorporated Volcker Rule compliance by reference to the statutory requirements in existing policies, procedures, and compliance programs where relevant and as appropriate for its activities, size, scope, and complexity. The Volcker Rule does not have a material impact on the Company. 

On June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve System, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FDIC, OCC, and SEC issued a final rule that modified the Volcker Rule's prohibition on banking entities investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds, known as covered funds. The final rule, which became effective on October 1, 2020, modified three areas of the Volcker Rule by streamlining the covered funds portion of the rule, addressing the extraterritorial treatment of certain foreign funds, and permitting banking entities to offer financial services and engage in other activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. The Federal Reserve System had granted the Company an extension until July 21, 2022 to bring its holdings into compliance with the Volcker Rule. The Company dissolved its remaining holdings in illiquid covered funds during 2021, and believes its holdings to be fully compliant with the Volcker Rule as of December 31, 2023. 

Federal Reserve System 

Federal Reserve System regulations require depository institutions to maintain reserves against its transaction accounts and non-personal time deposits for the purposes of implementing monetary policy. The reserve requirement must be satisfied in the form of vault cash and, if vault cash is insufficient, by maintaining a balance in an account at a FRB. The FRA authorizes different ranges of reserve requirement ratios depending on the amount of transaction account balances held at each depository institution. Effective March 26, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the reserve requirement ratios on all net transaction accounts were reduced to zero percent, thereby eliminating reserve requirements for all depository institutions. 

Further, as a national bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, Webster Bank is required to subscribe to the capital stock of its district FRB in an amount equal to 6% of its capital and surplus, of which 50% is paid. The remaining 50% is subject to call by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2023, the Bank held an FRB of New York stock investment of $227.9 million. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The FHLB System provides a central credit facility for its member institutions. The Bank, as a member of the FHLB, is required to purchase and hold shares of FHLB capital stock for its membership and other activities in an amount equal to 0.05% of total assets as of December 31, 2022, up to a maximum of $5 million, plus an amount that varies from 3.0% to 4.0% depending on the maturities of its FHLB advances, of which there were $2.4 billion outstanding at December 31, 2023. The Bank was in compliance with these requirements at December 31, 2023, and held a FHLB stock investment of $99.0 million. 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

Bank holding companies are required to serve as a source of financial strength to their subsidiary banks and commit resources to support each of their subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when the Holding Company is not in a financial position to provide such resources without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. The Federal Reserve System may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank, or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve System believes might jeopardize the bank holding company's ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank. Capital loans by banking holding companies to its subsidiary banks would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of the subsidiary bank. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the Bank's capital stock is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the Holding Company. If the assessment is not paid within three months after receiving notice thereof, the OCC could order a sale of the Bank stock held to cover any deficiency. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

The federal banking agencies have adopted the rules and regulations under the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness, which are applicable to all insured depository institutions. These guidelines prescribe standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees, and benefits, asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation, as determined to be appropriate. 

The OCC also has guidelines establishing heightened standards for large national banks, which establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework. A large bank is defined as a bank with more than $50 billion in average total consolidated assets from its four most recently filed quarterly Call Reports. Upon becoming a covered bank, the bank should have a risk governance framework in compliance with the guidelines within 18 months from the as of date of the most recently filed Call Report used to calculate the average. The framework of a parent holding company may be used when the risks are substantially similar. With the filing of its Call Report for the quarter ended December 31, 2022, the Bank became a covered bank, and will have 18 months to comply with these heightened OCC guidelines. The Company took steps in 2023 to ensure that its risk governance framework meets the OCC heightened standards, and expects to meet the required guidelines within the mandatory timeframe. 

If a federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any of the established standards, the agency may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. In the event that an institution fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time allowed, or fails, in any material respect, to implement an accepted plan, the agency must require the institution to correct the deficiency and may take other supervisory and enforcement actions until the deficiency is corrected. 

In more serious instances, enforcement actions may include the issuance of directives to increase capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution affiliated parties, the termination of the insured depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance, the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the insured depository institution, and injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the FDIC, as receiver, would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted. 

Resolution Planning 

There is currently a moratorium for insured depository institutions with more than $50 billion in assets but less than $100 billion in assets submitting to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of an insured depository institution's failure. On August 29, 2023, the FDIC proposed amendments to the resolution planning requirements for insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets. At December 31, 2023, the Company has approximately $75 billion in consolidated assets. The amendments would require insured depository institutions with between $50 billion and $100 billion in assets to submit information filings on a two-year cycle with an interim update of key information. While the Company would have time to prepare and submit a resolution plan, preparing and submitting such plan may increase related compliance costs. 

Dividends 

The Holding Company is dependent upon dividends from the Bank to provide funds for its cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to stockholders. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to federal and state regulatory limitations. Express approval by the OCC is required if the effect of dividends declared would cause the regulatory capital of the Bank to fall below specified minimum levels or would exceed the net income for that year combined with the undistributed net income for the preceding two years. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Bank declared and paid $600.0 million in dividends to the Holding Company and had $788.7 million of undistributed net income available for the declaration and payment of dividends at December 31, 2023. 

In addition, federal banking regulators have the authority to prohibit the Company from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. The declaration and payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice, especially if its capital base is depleted to an inadequate level. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital requirements. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Transactions between insured depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the FRA and Federal Reserve Regulation W. In a bank holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a national bank, and any companies that are controlled by such parent holding company, are considered affiliates of the bank. Generally, sections 23A and 23B of the FRA are intended to protect insured depository institutions from losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates by (i) limiting the extent to which an institution or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate and with all affiliates in the aggregate, and (ii) requiring that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term covered transaction includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, the issuance of a guarantee, and similar types of transactions. Certain covered transactions must be collateralized according to a schedule set forth in the statue. 

In addition, Section 22(h) of the FRA and Federal Reserve Regulation O restricts loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders or insiders. Pursuant to Section 22(h), loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders must be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, except that such insiders may receive preferential loans made under a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to the institution's employees and does not give preference to the insider over the employees. Further, loans to insiders and their related interests may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated entities, the institution&#8217;s total capital and surplus. Loans to insiders above specified amounts must receive prior approval from the Company's Board of Directors. Section 22(g) of the FRA places additional limitations on loans to executive officers. 

Consumer Protection and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision 

The CFPB is responsible for implementing, enforcing, and examining compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. As an insured depository institution with more than $10 billion in total assets, the Bank is subject to supervision by the CFPB. There are a number of federal laws, which the Company is subject to, that are designed to protect borrowers and promote lending, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Practices Act, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010. 

Identity Theft 

Certain regulated entities are required to establish programs to address risks of identity theft. In accordance with these rules, financial institutions and creditors are required to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing accounts or the opening of new accounts. The Company has an Identity Theft Prevention Program in place, which is approved by the Board of Directors, satisfying its compliance with these requirements. 

Financial Privacy and Data Security 

The Company is subject to federal and certain state laws and regulations containing consumer privacy and data protection provisions addressing the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by financial institutions. Subject to certain exceptions, financial institutions are prohibited from disclosing nonpublic personal information about a consumer to nonaffiliated third parties, unless the institution satisfies various notice and opt-out requirements, and the consumer has not elected to opt out of the disclosure. Regardless as to whether a financial institution shares nonpublic personal information, the institution must provide notice of its privacy policies and practices to its consumers, and must follow redisclosure and reuse limitations on any nonpublic personal information it receives from a nonaffiliated financial institution. 

The federal banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and programs to protect such information, with an increased focus on risk management and processes related to information technology, and the use of third-parties. The expectation from the federal banking regulatory agencies is that financial institutions have established lines of defense to ensure that their risk management processes address the risks posed by compromised customer credentials, and that the financial institution has sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure rapid recovery, resumption, and maintenance of operations after a cyber-attack. 

Financial institutions are required to notify customers of security breaches that result in unauthorized access to their nonpublic personal information and its primary regulator of certain types of computer security incidents that result in harm to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits, as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the banking organization determines that a notification incident has occurred. 

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws 

The Bank has a responsibility under the CRA to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products or services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. In connection with its examination, the OCC assesses the Bank&#8217;s record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. The Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities, as well as the activities of the Company. Further, the Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions against it by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB and the Department of Justice. The Bank received a CRA rating of Outstanding in its most recent examination. 

Federal Deposit Insurance 

The standard deposit insurance coverage limit is $250,000 per depositor, per FDIC-insured bank, for each account ownership category. The FDIF is funded mainly through quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, and provides insurance coverage for certain deposits up to this maximum amount. 

The Bank's assessment is calculated in accordance with the FDIC's standardized risk-based methodology by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base, which are determined and paid each quarter. The assessment base equals the Bank's average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity during the assessment period. As a large bank, or generally one with $10 billion or more in assets, the Bank is assigned an individual rate based on a scorecard, which combines CAMELS (capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity) component ratings, financial measures used to measure a bank's ability to withstand asset-related and funding-related stress, and a measure of loss severity that estimates the relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the bank's failure, to produce a score that is then converted to an assessment rate. 

Assessment rates are subject to adjustment by the FDIC. For instance, assessment rates could (i) decrease for the issuance of long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt and subordinated debt, (ii) increase for holdings of long-term unsecured or subordinated debt issued by other banks, or (iii) increase for significant holdings of brokered deposits for large banks that are not well rated or not well capitalized. On October 18, 2022, the FDIC increased the initial deposit base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules uniformly by 2 basis points for all insured depository institutions, beginning in the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The increase in assessment rate schedules is intended to increase the likelihood that the reserve ratio of the FDIF reaches the statutory minimum of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028. 

On November 29, 2023, the FDIC published a final rule implementing a special assessment for certain banks to recover losses incurred by protecting uninsured depositors of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank upon their failure in March 2023. The final rule levies a special assessment to certain banks at a quarterly rate of 3.36 basis points based on their uninsured deposits balance reported as of December 31, 2022. The special assessment is to be collected for an anticipated total of eight quarterly assessment periods beginning with the first quarter of 2024, which has a payment date of June 28, 2024. The FDIC retains the right to cease collection early, extend the special assessment collection period, and impose a final shortfall special assessment if actual losses exceed the amounts collected. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution's deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound, or that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. The Company&#8217;s management is not aware of any practice, violation, or condition that might lead to the termination of its deposit insurance. 

Depositor Preference 

In the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, including the Bank, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, would have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the Holding Company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

A major focus of U.S. federal governmental policy as it relates to financial institutions is aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with the relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the financial institution, including causing the applicable bank regulatory authorities to not approve merger or acquisition transactions or to prohibit such transactions even if prior approval is not required. 

Financial institutions are required to take certain measures to identify their customers, prevent money laundering, monitor customer transactions, and report suspicious activity to U.S. law enforcement agencies. Financial institutions also are required to respond to requests for information from federal banking agencies and law enforcement agencies. Information sharing among financial institutions for the above purposes is encouraged by an exemption granted to complying financial institutions from the privacy provisions of federal privacy laws. Financial institutions that hold correspondent accounts for foreign banks or provide private banking services to foreign individuals are required to take measures to avoid dealing with certain foreign individuals or entities, including foreign banks with profiles that raise money laundering concerns, and are prohibited from dealing with foreign shell banks and persons from jurisdictions of particular concern. 

Financial institutions also are required to establish internal anti-money laundering programs. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted under the Bank Merger Act. The Company has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act compliance program and engages in very few transactions of any kind with foreign financial institutions or foreign persons. The Company also complies with the sanctions administered by the OFAC of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which is responsible for administering economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nations, and others. The OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring, or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Block Persons. Blocked assets (i.e., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from the OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Debit Card Interchange Fees 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System requires that the amount of any interchange transaction fee that a debit card issuer may receive or charge with respect to an electronic debit transaction shall be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the debit card issuer with respect to the transaction, and imposes requirements regarding routing and exclusivity of electronic debit transactions and the usability of debit cards across networks. Interchange fees for certain electronic debit transactions are capped at 21 cents plus 0.05% of the transaction value for issuers with over $10 billion in consolidated assets, such as the Bank. The regulation also allows covered debit card issuers to receive 1 cent per transaction for fraud-prevention costs, provided that the debit card issuer meets the fraud-prevention standards established by the FRB. HSA Bank's interchange revenue is not subject to these rules. 

Risk Management Framework 

The Company defines risk as the potential that events, expected or unexpected, may have an adverse effect on its earnings, capital, or franchise/enterprise value. The Company maintains a structured risk management framework that provides an integrated, forward-looking approach to identifying, prioritizing, and managing all risk categories across the organization: Information, Reputational, Operational, Credit, Compliance, Financial, and Strategic. 

The Chief Executive Officer and Executive management set the tone at the top and reinforce risk culture through strategy setting, formulating objectives, approving resource allocations, and establishing and maintaining effective systems of internal control. A strong risk culture is the foundation of effective risk management because it influences the decisions of management and employees when weighing risks and benefits. The Chief Executive Officer and Executive management also encourage and support risk self-identification and timely escalation throughout the organization. 

The Company has adopted the Three Line Model, in which the First Line manages risks, ensures compliance, performs control activities, and works in coordination with the Second Line, who in turn provides additional expertise, support, and tools, and challenges risk management to enhance efficiency and effectiveness of the control environment. The Third Line provides an independent and objective assurance to management and the Board of Directors and assesses whether the First and Second Line functions are operating effectively. Detailed roles and responsibilities for each line are outlined below. 

Front Line Units, also referred to as First Line functions, represent process owners that engage in activities designed to generate revenue and reduce expenses, provide operational and technology services, and provide operational support and servicing in the delivery of products or services. Since Front Line Unit activities inherently create risk, the Front Line Units are responsible for assessing and managing that risk. 

Independent Risk Management, also referred to as the Second Line Function, is responsible for identifying, measuring, monitoring, or controlling risks independently from the Front Line Units and providing effective challenge to the Front Line Units. Independent Risk Management includes Enterprise Risk that reports to the Chief Risk Officer, Credit Risk Management that reports to the Chief Credit Officer, and the SOX Program Office that reports to the Chief Accounting Officer. The SOX Program Office maintains sufficient autonomy from the Front Line Units to be considered independent. 

Internal Audit, also referred to as the Third Line Function, independently assesses the Company&#8217;s risk management processes and controls using methodology developed from professional auditing standards and regulatory guidance. Internal Audit undertakes these responsibilities through periodic reviews of the Company&#8217;s business activities, operations, and systems, and through special or retrospective reviews that may be specifically requested by the Audit Committee or management. Internal Audit is led by the Chief Audit Executive who reports to the Audit Committee. 

Risk identification at the Company is a continuous process and occurs at the transaction, portfolio, and enterprise levels. Approaches used to identify risk include process and data analysis, key risk indicators, and risk assessments. Identified risks are assessed based on qualitative and quantitative factors to understand the likelihood that such events will occur and the degree to which they will impact the Company&#8217;s ability to achieve its strategic and business objectives if they occur. Risk assessments evaluate inherent risk (likelihood and impact) and existing controls (control environment) to arrive at residual risk. 

The Company has established and maintains a Risk Appetite Statement which provides guidance to management regarding the nature and level of residual risk that it is willing to take in pursuit of its objectives. The appetite balances a qualitative risk appetite statement, which is approved annually by the Board of Directors, with quantitative metrics in the form of board-level and management-level scorecards comprising key risk indicators with established risk tolerance levels. Tolerance levels are periodically reviewed by the respective oversight committees to ensure the alignment of risk appetite with the Company&#8217;s risk profile. 

The Company has established operating and oversight structures including policies, processes, and control/oversight systems that support risk-related decision-making designed to ensure appropriate authority, accountability, independence, and clarity of roles and responsibilities. The Board of Directors oversees the Company's approach to risk management and delegates its authority to the Risk Committee to provide oversight and effective challenge. Along with assisting the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, the Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing information regarding the Company's policies, procedures, and practices relating to risk. The Chief Risk Officer has the primary responsibility for the design and implementation of the Company's risk management framework. 

The ERMC, which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, is the management committee responsible for overseeing the Company's risk management process, including monitoring the severity, direction, and trend of current and emerging risks relative to business strategies and market conditions, assessing the quality of risk programs to manage and mitigate risks, and ensuring implementation of the Company's risk appetite and strategy. To support the ERMC in its oversight responsibilities, it has seven subcommittees: (i) Information Risk Committee, (ii) Operational Risk Management Committee, (iii) Litigation Risk Management Committee (iv) Credit Risk Management Committee, (v) Regulatory Compliance Committee, (vi) Bank Secrecy Act and Fraud Oversight Committee, and (vii) Asset Liability Committee. 

Information Risk 

Information risk encompasses Information Technology and Information Security risks. Informational Technology risk is defined as the risk that systems handing information and process flows may not meet quality and efficiency standards in line with industry, customer, and regulatory expectations, or may fail causing outages, or that new systems may not be implemented in a timely manner. Information Security risk is defined as the risk of unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, perusal, inspection, recording, or destruction of electronic or physical data. 

The increased use of technology to store and process information, particularly the ability to conduct financial transactions on mobile devices and cloud technologies, exposes the Company to moderate risk of potential operational disruption or information security incidents, whether caused by deliberate or accidental acts. The Company is committed to preventing, detecting, and responding timely to incidents that may impact the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets through its information security and technology risk programs, which are managed under the direction of the Chief Information Security Officer and Senior Managing Director of Information Risk Management. The Information Risk Committee provides primary oversight to Information Risk. 

Reputational Risk 

Reputational risk is defined as the potential that negative publicity regarding the Company's conduct, business practices, or associations, whether true or not, will adversely affect its revenues, operations, and customer base, or require costly litigation or other defensive measures. Reputational risk may also impair the Company's competitiveness by affecting its ability to establish new relationships or continue servicing existing customers. Reputational risk is inherent in all Company's activities, especially when dealing with stakeholders such as customers, counterparties, investors, regulators, colleagues, and communities. 

In addition, reputational risk arises when the Company associates its brand with solutions and services offered through outsourced arrangements, negative publicity regarding matters such as unethical or deceptive business practices, violations of laws or regulations, high profile litigation, poor financial performance, poor execution, or inferior customer service. 

Reputational risk is managed through strong corporate governance, risk culture, and a Code of Ethics. Setting the tone at the top, the Board of Directors and executive leadership actively support risk awareness by mandating accurate and timely management information and communication. The Company's ethical standards are reinforced through recruiting, training, and performance management. The Company also maintains strong fair and responsible banking practices, which permeate interactions with clients, vendors, and counterparties. The ERMC provides primary oversight to Reputational risk. 

Operational Risk 

Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss, whether direct or indirect, due to the inadequacy or failure of processes and systems, human error, or from external events. Operational risk encompasses the following risks: Fraud, Third Parties, Human Capital, Business Operations, Model, Legal, and Physical Security. 

The Company mitigates Operational risk through the establishment of an Operational Risk Management Program, which provides for a set of tools to identify, assess, monitor, and report operational risk activities. The program enables the lines of business and corporate functions to establish accountability for performance and execution, and allows for timely and effective management of identified risks, control failures, or other related gap/deficiencies that are reinforced through incentive structures. The Company seeks to control operational risk within an acceptable range, which is determined by the types of businesses in which it engages, and the volume of activity within those lines of business. Control of operational losses depends on identifying the types of transactions and operational risks faced at the enterprise and business level, and ensuring effective internal control processes are in place to mitigate these risks. The Operational Risk Management Committee provides primary oversight to Operational risk as a whole. The Litigation Risk Committee provides primary oversight to Legal risk. 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations to the Company. Credit risk arises in the Company's lending operations, and in its funding and investment activities where counterparties have repayment or other obligations to the Company. Credit risk can also arise from other solutions or services that involve customer obligations for the transfer of funds. 

The overall focus of Credit risk management is to balance returns relative to risk while operating within stated risk tolerances. The Company maintains underwriting standards consistent with its desired risk profile and robust credit process. The Company's loan portfolio, which includes both commercial and consumer lending activity, is actively managed to avoid significant concentrations in borrowers, counterparties, industries, and solutions that could create excessive correlated risk. 

Diversification of the loan portfolio across commercial and industrial, specialty finance, and real estate lending is important in managing credit risk. Accordingly, management aims to actively measure and management concentrations by portfolio, industry sector and specific sub-sectors, geography, single obligor, and other guidelines. The Company is primarily a relationship lender. In addition, the Company will only assume credit risk when it can effectively manage from an infrastructure or operational perspective, and it has industry, product, and market expertise. 

The Credit Risk Management Committee provides primary oversight to Credit risk. 

Compliance Risks 

Compliance risk is defined as the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of, or non-compliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures, or prudent ethical standards. Compliance risk exposes the Company to fines, civil monetary penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. The Company's activities subject to overall compliance, consumer protection, and regulatory risk include deposit account management, lending products and services, privacy protections, investment management, and fiduciary services. 

Compliance risk is managed through the execution of a comprehensive Compliance Management Program, which is designed to identify and evaluate risks of non-compliance, assess, test, and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, and report and escalate significant issues. The Regulatory Compliance Committee provides primary oversight to Compliance risk as a whole. The BSA and Fraud Oversight Committee provides primary oversight to Compliance risks specific to the BSA. 

Financial Risk 

Financial risk encompasses Treasury and Accounting risk. Treasury risk includes the risk (i) of capital levels falling below supervisory expectations or being incommensurate with the level of risk; (ii) that the value of a security or investment will decrease; (iii) changes in interest rates could contribute to a reduction in earnings and net worth; and (iv) from decreases or changes in funding sources. Accounting risk includes the risks that arise from the inability to (i) comply with GAAP and regulatory laws/guidelines; (ii) ensure a high integrity financial reporting process; and (iii) disclose appropriate information. 

The Treasury components of Financial risk are managed through interest rate, liquidity, and capital scenario analysis and stress testing. Accounting risk is managed through internal control over financial reporting. The Company's Treasury and Accounting Risk Programs are respectively managed by the Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer. The Asset Liability Committee provides primary oversight of Treasury risk. The Disclosure and SOX Committees provide primary oversight of Accounting risk. 

Strategic Risk 

Strategic risk is defined as the risk to the Company's current or projected financial condition, expected returns and resilience arising from the inability to select and execute strategic choices, suboptimal company positioning, ineffective organizational structures, poor implementation of priorities and initiatives, inadequate risk management infrastructure, or the lack of responsiveness to changes in the financial services ecosystem and operating environment. 

The Company seeks to achieve its performance objectives by making management decisions, such as the selection of strategic choices, applying planning assumptions, assessing internal capabilities and the external environment, ensuring capital and resources are dedicated to the right priorities, and ensuring effective execution by periodically reviewing specific plans. Strategic risk underscores the need for balance between risk and return, evaluating opportunity against the risk of loss of value. 

The long-range strategic planning process ensures that strategic choices and initiatives are viewed with the overarching goal of allocating capital and resources to support strategies that create value for customers and stockholders and sustainably grow economic profit over time. The impact of a strategic plan on the Company's risk appetite and risk profile is evaluated as part of the strategic planning process. The long-range strategic planning process is managed by the Corporate Strategy Officer. The ERMC and Risk Committee provide primary oversight to Strategic risk. 

Additional information regarding risks and uncertainties, and relevant risk factors that could impact the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition can be found in Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and throughout Part II of this report. 

