Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to JPMorgan Chase & Co., while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2021_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: JPMorgan Invests In Mortgage Clearinghouse.............................................................................. 2
          JPMorgan Buys Nutmeg in U.K. Digital Push .......................................................................................................... 4
          Wall Street Banks Do More With Less --- Investing arms of JPMorgan, Goldman posted huge returns, suggesting
          they may be undervalued ......................................................................................................................................... 9
          JPMorgan Chief Predicts a Boom .......................................................................................................................... 11
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:JPMorganInvestsInMortgageClearinghouse                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: JPMorgan Invests In Mortgage Clearinghouse               
          By Matt Wirz and Ben Eisen                                              
          427 words                                                               
          23 June 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B3                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. is redoubling efforts to revive a type of mortgage that largely died out after the last
          financial crisis.                                                       
          The bank is reinvesting in an electronic clearinghouse for "private-label" mortgages, which are packaged and
          sold to investors without a guarantee from a government-backed firm like Fannie Mae. The market has been
          growing during this year's hot housing market.                          
          The investment bank has contributed additional venture capital funding to Maxex LLC, a growing digital
          exchange for residential mortgages, executives at both companies said. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.
          Maxex connects sellers and buyers of the home loans, providing standardized documentation so they can be
          easily purchased by financial firms. Those firms invest in the loans or bundle them into mortgage-backed
          bonds, or securitizations, they sell to others.                         
          "If there's a segment of finance that has lagged in utilization of technology it's the mortgage business -- it's
          remarkably inefficient," said James Bennison, an executive at insurer Arch Capital Group, which bought about
          $120 million of loans on the Maxex platform this year.                  
          Maxex provides a clearinghouse where mortgage lenders can sell loans and where large banks and asset
          managers can buy them. The company, which launched in 2016, conducts due diligence on the loans it lists
          for sale and uses a standardized contract for buyers and sellers, streamlining the trading process, said chief
          executive Tom Pearce.                                                   
          Loans funded on the platform averaged about $1 billion a month this year. JPMorgan has traded about $4
          billion this year, up from $2.2 billion in all of 2020, according to Mr. Pearce and Marc Simpson, a managing
          director at JPMorgan. The bank helped finance Maxex's launch and is investing the new funds to help the
          platform attract other large banks and institutional investors to increase trading activity, they said.
          The market for private-label mortgage bonds played a central role in the financial crisis 2008-09. It grew
          mightily in the years leading up to the crash, but investors got burned when millions of homeowners stopped
          paying their mortgages.                                                 
          Today, government-backed giants Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae dominate the U.S. mortgage
          industry, guaranteeing more than three-quarters of the mortgages originated last year.
          Wall Street banks and investors have long tried to restart the private-label market, with limited success. It
          remains a tiny fraction of the home lending industry and originations effectively shut down during the early
          days of the pandemic last year.                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020210623eh6n0000m                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganBuysNutmeginU.K.DigitalPush                                     
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          JPMorgan Buys Nutmeg in U.K. Digital Push                               
          By Simon Clark                                                          
          408 words                                                               
          18 June 2021                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B4                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to buy digital wealth manager Nutmeg Saving and Investment Ltd., part of a
          push to establish a retail banking presence in the U.K.                 
          Nutmeg, founded in 2012, has more than 140,000 customers and GBP 3.5 billion under management, the
          equivalent of around $5 billion. A price for the acquisition wasn't disclosed but people familiar with the
          transaction said it was about $1 billion.                               
          JPMorgan said in January it would launch a new digital bank in the U.K., offering consumer banking services
          there for the first time. Called Chase, it is currently being tested internally with JPMorgan employees ahead of
          a public launch later this year. Nutmeg's savings and investment products won't initially be offered through
          the retail banking project, the bank said.                              
          JPMorgan is entering a crowded digital banking marketplace in the U.K. Regulators encouraged new
          startups, including Starling Bank Ltd. and Monzo Bank Ltd., to boost competition in the wake of the last global
          financial crisis. These so-called challenger banks have forced traditional lenders to improve their digital
          offerings but have struggled to earn profits.                           
          JPMorgan last year considered making a bid for Starling Bank, founded by Anne Boden in 2014, according to
          people familiar with the situation.                                     
          JPMorgan previously tried to launch a digital bank in U.S. cities and markets where it didn't have Chase
          branches, but closed the product, called Finn, in June 2019 after slow pickup. Bank executives have said they
          learned lessons from that program, including that the Chase brand resonated better than a new name.
          Nutmeg aims to make wealth management more accessible through the internet, Neil Alexander, the
          company's chief executive, said in a statement. Nutmeg was chosen as a name because the spice, like
          wealth and investment services, was once rare and costly but is now widely available.
          Like other investment sites, it sells access to funds, ETFs and pensions. Nutmeg appeals to investment
          novices, avoids jargon and provides tools and Q&As about the ins and outs of the finance world.
                                                                                  
          The company's revenue grew 29% in 2019 to GBP 9.3 million from the previous year, and its loss increased
          15% to GBP 21.2 million. Its shareholders, who will be bought out in the deal, include Goldman Sachs Group
          Inc. and Schroders PLC, the U.K. asset manager.                         
          Document J000000020210618eh6i0000r                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          WallStreetBanksDoMoreWithLess---InvestingarmsofJPMorgan,Goldmanpostedhugereturns,suggestingtheymaybeundervalued
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Wall Street Banks Do More With Less --- Investing arms of JPMorgan, Goldman posted huge returns,
          suggesting they may be undervalued                                      
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          606 words                                                               
          15 April 2021                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B12                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          The resilience of big banks' lending books may be the big news this quarter. But their Wall Street arms may
          not be getting enough credit for their own performance.                 
          JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo have started doing what investors were expecting, which is to release
          reserves for potential credit losses taken at the height of the pandemic's economic shock. Defaults haven't
          materialized to the levels feared, and the economy looks to be on an upswing. JPMorgan released $5.2 billion
          worth of reserves in the first quarter, and Wells Fargo released $1.6 billion.
          That is important to see, but ultimately these are paper profits, not more cash to be put to work. Reserve
          releases also don't necessarily get fully reflected back into the bank's core equity capital, since regulators
          gave banks a form of pandemic relief by delaying some of the impact of loss reserving on key capital levels.
          It is core capital, not just earnings, that is needed to fuel banks' shares further, as growing deposits weigh
          down balance sheets. This is key to avoid constraints on future lending, when demand picks up, or buybacks,
          to boost returns in the meantime. JPMorgan issued $1.5 billion worth of preferred shares in the quarter, as it
          had said may be needed to stay well clear of leverage-ratio minimum levels.
          Given these constraints, the even better news for investors is that core Wall Street businesses are generating
          huge earnings without needing to use substantially more capital. That wasn't always the case, as volatility
          and volumes could sometimes force banks to take on even more risk to keep up. JPMorgan said its corporate
          and investment bank's return on equity was 27% in the first quarter, up from 26% in the fourth quarter. That
          figure was just 14% at the end of 2019. At Goldman Sachs, global markets return on average common equity
          was up over 10 percentage points over the quarter, to about 27%.        
          This may be part of a larger shift on Wall Street after years of stepped-up regulation and technology change.
          A study by bank analysts at Morgan Stanley and consultants at Oliver Wyman found that in 2020, every dollar
          of revenue in markets and investment banking required 21% less balance sheet and 34% less value-at-risk
          than 10 years earlier. Good performance from capital efficient units such as merger advisory also helps.
          Wall Street revenues may be near or at their cyclical high, but then again they may not be if the U.S.
          economy is about to enter a multiyear boom, as JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon now says he
          expects. That should turn up plenty of opportunities for banks' trading desks, M&A advisers, and so on, not to
          mention their ordinary lending business.                                
          On a price-to-tangible book value basis, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs are trading near five-year highs. But
          on a price-to-forward-earnings basis, they are still significantly cheaper than the S&P 500, at about 59% and
          43% of the index, respectively. Historically, such discounts reflected banks' capital intensiveness and
          earnings volatility. But there are signs now that both are improving.   
          Banks have just been through a real-life stress test featuring a once-in-a-century pandemic and a surge in
          unemployment to double-digit levels. Their strong performance suggests banks' discount to the rest of the
          stock market may be bigger than it needs to be.                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 9 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          JPMorganChiefPredictsaBoom                                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          JPMorgan Chief Predicts a Boom                                          
          By Lauren Hirsch                                                        
          605 words                                                               
          8 April 2021                                                            
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          5                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          In his annual letter to shareholders, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase weighed in on the nation's
          economy, climate change and tax loopholes.                              
          The annual letter to shareholders by JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, was published early
          Wednesday. The letter, which is widely read on Wall Street, is not just an overview of the bank's business but
          also covers Mr. Dimon's thoughts on everything from leadership lessons to public policy prescriptions.
          ''The U.S. economy will likely boom.'' A combination of excess savings, deficit spending, vaccinations and
          ''euphoria around the end of the pandemic,'' Mr. Dimon wrote, may create a boom that ''could easily run into
          2023.'' That could justify high stock valuations, but not the price of U.S. debt, given the ''huge supply'' soon to
          hit the market. There is a chance that a rise in inflation will be ''more than temporary,'' he wrote, forcing the
          Federal Reserve to raise interest rates aggressively. ''Rapidly raising rates to offset an overheating economy
          is a typical cause of a recession,'' he wrote, but he hopes for ''the Goldilocks scenario'' of fast growth, gently
          increasing inflation and a measured rise in interest rates.             
          ''Banks are playing an increasingly smaller role in the financial system.'' Mr. Dimon cited competition from an
          already large shadow banking system and fintech companies, as well as ''Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google
          and now Walmart.'' He argued that those nonbank competitors should be more strictly regulated; their growth
          has ''partially been made possible'' by avoiding banking rules, he wrote. And when it comes to tougher
          regulation of big banks, he wrote, ''the cost to the economy of having fail-safe banks may not be worth it.''
          ''China's leaders believe that America is in decline.'' The United States has faced tough times before, but
          today, ''the Chinese see an America that is losing ground in technology, infrastructure and education -- a
          nation torn and crippled by politics, as well as racial and income inequality -- and a country unable to
          coordinate government policies (fiscal, monetary, industrial, regulatory) in any coherent way to accomplish
          national goals,'' he wrote. ''Unfortunately, recently, there is a lot of truth to this.''
          ''The solution is not as simple as walking away from fossil fuels.'' Addressing climate change doesn't mean
          ''abandoning'' companies that produce and use fossil fuels, Mr. Dimon wrote, but working with them to reduce
          their environmental impact. He sees ''huge opportunity in sustainable and low-carbon technologies and
          businesses'' and plans to evaluate clients' progress according to reductions in carbon intensity -- emissions
          per unit of output -- which adjusts for factors like size.              
          Other notable news (and views) from the letter:                         
          With more widespread remote working, JPMorgan may need only 60 seats for every 100 employees. ''This
          will significantly reduce our need for real estate,'' Mr. Dimon wrote.  
          JPMorgan spends more than $600 million a year on cybersecurity.         
          Mr. Dimon cited tax loopholes that he thought the United States could do without: carried interest; tax breaks
          for racing cars, private jets and horse racing; and a land conservation tax break for golf courses.
                                                                                  
          This was Mr. Dimon's longest letter yet, at 35,000 words over 66 pages. The steadily expanding letters --
          aside from a shorter edition last year, weeks after Mr. Dimon had emergency heart surgery -- could be seen
          as a reflection of the range of issues that top executives are now expected, or compelled, to address.
          The annual letter that Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase published on Wednesday was, at 66 pages, his
          longest yet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEENAH MOON/REUTERS)                        
          Document NYTF000020210408eh480003w                                      
          Page 11 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
```