 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The following discussion supplements the discussion of risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations set forth in Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors, on pages 75 through 99 of our 2019 Annual Report. The discussion of Risk Factors, as so supplemented, sets forth our most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or in our 2019 Annual Report or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this report and such other reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-Q. See &#8220;Forward-looking Statements.&#8221; 

The coronavirus pandemic is adversely affecting us and creates significant risks and uncertainties for our business, and the ultimate impact of the pandemic on us will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. 

The coronavirus pandemic has negatively affected the global economy, decreased liquidity in fixed income markets, created significant volatility and disruption in financial and equity markets, increased unemployment levels and disrupted businesses in many industries. This has resulted in increased demand on our transaction processing and clearance capabilities in many of our Investment Services businesses and volatility in the levels and mix of the assets under management of our Investment and Wealth Management business. Moreover, governmental actions in response to the pandemic are meaningfully influencing the interest rate environment, which has reduced, and is expected to continue to reduce, our net interest margin. As a 

result, we have granted and may continue to grant money market fee waivers. The effects of the pandemic have resulted, and could continue to result, in higher and more volatile provisions for credit losses for financial instruments subject to ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments &#8211; Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments , held by us. The continuing effects of the pandemic could also result in increased credit losses and charge-offs, particularly if our credit exposures increase and as more clients and customers experience credit deterioration, as well as increased risk of other asset write-downs and impairments, including, but not limited to, equity investments, goodwill and intangibles. Any of these events could potentially result in a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 

In addition, reliance on work-from-home capabilities by us, our clients and other industry participants, as well as the potential inability to maintain critical staff in operational facilities due to stay-at-home orders or operational precautions across jurisdictions, illness and quarantines present heightened cybersecurity, information security and operational risks. Any disruption to our ability to deliver services to our clients and customers could result in potential liability to our clients and customers, regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, increased operational costs or harm to our reputation. 

The pandemic has resulted in an increase in our balance sheet and volatility in risk-weighted assets, as we experience elevated deposit levels. Moreover, on March 15, 2020, we, along with the other member banks of the Financial Services Forum, announced that we would temporarily suspend share repurchases through the second quarter of 2020 to preserve capital and liquidity in order to further our objective of using our capital and liquidity to support our clients and customers. Further, in June 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that it has required participating CCAR firms, including us, to update and resubmit their capital plans and that, as a result, unless otherwise approved by the Federal Reserve, participating firms would not be permitted, during the third quarter of 2020, to conduct open market common stock repurchases, to increase their common stock dividends or to pay common stock dividends that exceed average net income for the preceding four quarters. The Federal Reserve has extended these limitations to the fourth quarter and may further extend these limitations. Our ability to resume our common stock repurchase program and maintain our 

BNY Mellon 109 

Part II - Other Information (continued) 

common stock dividend depends on factors such as prevailing market conditions, our outlook for the economic environment, the performance of our business, the additional capital analysis required by the Federal Reserve, and whether the Federal Reserve keeps the limitations for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 in place for subsequent quarters. 

The extent to which the pandemic impacts our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our regulatory capital, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the 

scope and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our work-from-home arrangements, actions taken by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic, as well as the direct and indirect impact on us, our clients and customers, and third parties. As the pandemic adversely affects the United States or the global economy, or our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. 

