 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

For information regarding risk factors that could affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, see the risk factors disclosed in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K . 

The risk factors below relate to the recent banking industry disruption, and are in addition to the risk factors previously disclosed in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K . 

Recent volatility in the banking sector, triggered by the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, may result in legislative initiatives, agency rulemaking activities, or changes in agency policies and priorities that could subject FNB and FNBPA to enhanced government regulation and supervision. 

On March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation. Two days later, on March 12, 2023, Signature Bank (SBNY) also failed. In each case, the FDIC was appointed as receiver. The FDIC, together with the FRB and the UST, then took action under applicable emergency systemic risk authority to fully protect the depositors of each bank as the institutions were wound down. SVB and SBNY each had substantial business relationships with, and exposure to, entities within the innovation sector, including financial technology and digital asset companies, and had received an influx of deposits over the course of several years which coincided with the rapid growth of that sector. In recent periods, however, SVB and SBNY each began to experience significant deposit withdrawals. These withdrawals increased rapidly in early March, ultimately causing each institution to fail as it became apparent that available sources of liquidity would be inadequate to cover the withdrawals. Subsequently on May 1, 2023 First Republic Bank (FRC) became another large bank to fail. 

The SVB and SBNY bank failures and subsequent industry volatility may lead to governmental initiatives intended to prevent future bank failures and stem significant deposit outflows from the banking sector, including (i) legislation aimed at preventing similar future bank runs and failures and stabilizing confidence in the banking sector over the long term, (ii) agency rulemaking to modify and enhance relevant regulatory requirements - specifically with respect to liquidity risk management, deposit concentrations, capital adequacy, stress testing and contingency planning, and safe and sound banking practices, and (iii) enhancement of the agencies&#8217; supervision and examination policies and priorities. More specifically, for instance, the federal banking agencies may modify the risk-based capital regulations to eliminate the ability of certain banks to offset portions of their AOCI when calculating regulatory capital requirements. Alternatively, the treatment of AOCI under GAAP also could be modified, the effect of which may carry through to banks&#8217; capital management and regulatory compliance practices. The federal banking agencies may also re-evaluate applicable liquidity risk management standards, such as by reconsidering the mix of assets that are deemed to be &#8220;high-quality liquid assets&#8221; (HQLA) and/or how HQLA holdings and cash inflows and outflows are tabulated and weighted for liquidity management purposes. 

Although we cannot predict which initiatives may be pursued by lawmakers and agency leadership, nor can we predict the terms and scope of any such initiatives, any of the potential changes referenced above could, among other things, subject us to additional material costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and limit our future growth, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

We may experience increases in FDIC insurance assessments. 

The losses incurred by the DIF in connection with the resolution of SVB and SBNY, which are estimated to amount to approximately $22.5 billion in the aggregate, are required by law to be recovered through one or more special assessments on depository institutions and, potentially, their holding companies if the FDIC determines such action to be appropriate and the Secretary of the UST concurs with the FDIC&#8217;s determination. On May 22, 2023, the FDIC issued its proposed rule that would impose such special assessments. The FDIC must consider a variety of factors in determining the terms and applicability of any such special assessment, including, among others, the types of entities that benefit from the action taken by the agencies, economic conditions, and anticipated industry impacts. It is also possible that our regular deposit insurance assessment rates will increase should the FDIC adopt a final rule that alters the assessment rate schedule or calculation methodology for all 

larger financial institutions (including FNBPA) as a result of the recent bank failures. Although we cannot predict the specific timing and terms of any final rule imposing special assessments relating to the resolution of SVB and SBNY, or any other increase in our deposit insurance assessment rates, any increase in our assessment fees could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due. 

Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our liquidity and ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general purposes. Liquidity is needed to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on our common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Our preferred sources for funding are deposits and customer repurchase agreements, which are low cost and stable sources of funding for us. We compete with commercial banks, savings banks and credit unions, as well as nondepository competitors such as mutual funds, fintechs, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies, for deposits and customer repurchase agreements. If a significant portion of our deposits were to be withdrawn within a short period of time or if we are unable to attract and maintain sufficient levels of deposits and customer repurchase agreements to fund our loan growth and liquidity objectives, we may be subject to paying higher funding costs by raising interest rates that are paid on deposits and customer repurchase agreements or cause us to source funds from third-party providers which may be higher cost funding, impacting our net interest margin. Additionally, our ability to attract depositors during a time of actual or perceived distress or instability in the marketplace may be limited. Because our available-for-sale investment securities lose value when interest rates rise, after-tax proceeds resulting from the sale of such assets may be diminished during periods when interest rates are elevated. However, should we sell all or a material portion of our securities portfolio to increase liquidity in the face of depositor withdrawals in the current interest rate environment, we would be required to realize significant losses that would, in turn, reduce our regulatory capital position. 

We are subject to supervision and examination by U.S. government authorities which could result in investigations, enforcement actions, fines, and other adverse effects. 

The federal banking agencies, including the OCC, the CFPB, as well as the DOJ, have in recent years adopted a more aggressive enforcement posture in line with general enforcement priorities - specifically with respect to consumer protection issues and anti-discrimination lending laws. These government agencies have expressed a heightened interest in fair lending and loan servicing, mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing, bank and financial institution sales practices, management of consumer accounts and the charging of overdraft and various other fees, fair credit reporting, predatory lending, debt collection, and meaningful disclosure of credit and savings terms, among others, and perform periodic reviews, examinations, and investigations in these areas. An adverse finding or outcome of any such review, examination, or investigation that involves an assertion of regulatory noncompliance or a violation of law could result in possible fines, penalties, restitution, or other forms of remediation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or reputation. 

In addition, the recent failures of SVB, SBNY, and FRC have further increased the regulatory focus and scrutiny of financial institutions. Congress and the federal banking agencies have begun to evaluate the events leading to the failures of SVB, SBNY and FRC to ascertain possible explanations for these developments. Preliminarily, legislators and the leadership of the federal banking agencies have posited varying theories, including, for example, inadequate prudential regulation of regional banking organizations (generally, institutions with less than $250 billion in total assets), insufficient supervision of such organizations, and a failure by the institutions themselves to properly manage risks&#8212;specifically including interest rate and liquidity risks in consideration of each institution&#8217;s business model, exposure to the innovation sector, and substantial uninsured deposit liabilities. 

Further evaluation of recent developments may lead to legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to prevent future bank failures, raise capital requirements and stem significant deposit outflows from the banking sector. Although we cannot predict with certainty which initiatives may be pursued by lawmakers and agency leadership, nor can we predict the terms and scope of any such initiatives, any potential changes could, among other things, subject us to additional costs and capital requirements, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and limit our future growth, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

