 Item 1. 

Business 

##TABLE_END 

General Corporate Overview 

The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) is a savings and loan holding company, headquartered in San Francisco, California. CSC was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Schwab or the Company), in wealth management, securities brokerage, banking, asset management, custody, and financial advisory services. At December 31, 2019 , Schwab had $4.04 trillion in client assets, 12.3 million active brokerage accounts, 1.7 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 1.4 million banking accounts. 

Principal business subsidiaries of CSC include the following: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Charles Schwab &#38; Co., Inc. (CS&#38;Co), incorporated in 1971, a securities broker-dealer with over 360 domestic branch offices in 48 states, as well as a branch in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In addition, Schwab serves clients through branch offices in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Hong Kong through other subsidiaries of CSC; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Charles Schwab Bank (CSB), our principal banking entity; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab&#8217;s proprietary mutual funds (Schwab Funds &#174; ) and for Schwab&#8217;s exchange-traded funds (Schwab ETFs&#8482;). 

##TABLE_END 

Schwab provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors, and retirement plan services, as well as other corporate brokerage services, to businesses and their employees. The Advisor Services segment provides custodial, trading, banking, and support services, as well as retirement business services, to independent registered investment advisors (RIAs), independent retirement advisors, and recordkeepers. These services are further described in the segment discussion below. 

As of December 31, 2019 , Schwab had full-time, part-time, temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of approximately 19,700 full-time employees. 

Unless otherwise indicated, the terms &#8220;Schwab,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; mean CSC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Business Acquisitions 

Planned Acquisition of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation 

On November 25, 2019, CSC announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation (TD Ameritrade), pursuant to which TD Ameritrade would be acquired by CSC in an all-stock transaction. At the time of announcement, TD Ameritrade had approximately twelve million brokerage accounts and $1.3 trillion in total client assets. Under the agreement, TD Ameritrade stockholders will receive 1.0837 CSC shares for each TD Ameritrade share. Based on the closing price of CSC common stock on November 20, 2019, the merger consideration represented approximately $26 billion. The Company anticipates this transaction will add scale to help support the Company&#8217;s ongoing efforts to enhance the client experience, provide deeper resources for RIAs, and continue to improve our operating efficiency. 

Upon completion of the merger, The Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD Bank), which as of January 15, 2020 beneficially-owned approximately 43.4% of TD Ameritrade&#8217;s common stock, will have an estimated aggregate ownership position of approximately 13.6% in CSC, with other TD Ameritrade stockholders and existing CSC stockholders holding approximately 17.7% and 68.7%, respectively. TD Bank&#8217;s voting stake will be capped at 9.9%, with the balance of its position held in a new, nonvoting class of Schwab common stock. Subject to certain conditions, TD Bank will have the right to designate two individuals and TD Ameritrade will have the right to designate one individual to be appointed to Schwab&#8217;s Board of Directors as of the effective time of the merger. 

- 1 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement, CSC entered into the following agreements which will become effective when the merger closes: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Stockholder Agreement with TD Bank which governs the rights and obligations of Schwab and TD Bank with respect to the Schwab stock that will be acquired by TD Bank in the merger. The Stockholder Agreement sets out, among other things, standstill restrictions, a voting agreement and transfer restrictions. It also provides that TD Bank will have the right to designate up to two directors to be nominated for election to Schwab&#8217;s Board of Directors and be members of certain board committees, depending on TD Bank&#8217;s ownership percentage of Schwab stock. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Registration Rights Agreement that provides each of TD Bank, Charles R. Schwab, and, if it elects to be a party, Schwab&#8217;s Employee Stock Ownership Plan, up to three &#8220;demand&#8221; registrations in any 12-month period and customary &#8220;piggyback&#8221; registration rights. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Amended and Restated Insured Deposit Account Agreement (Amended IDA Agreement) with TD Bank USA, National Association and TD Bank, National Association (together, the Depository Institutions) which will replace the existing IDA agreement between the Depository Institutions and TD Ameritrade. Under the Amended IDA Agreement, there will be an initial period during which the amounts swept to the Depository Institutions will solely be composed of customer funds from the TD Ameritrade subsidiary broker-dealers. Following this initial period, CSC&#8217;s subsidiary broker-dealers, including the broker-dealers it will acquire from TD Ameritrade, can sweep client funds to money market deposit accounts at the Depository Institutions, subject to certain limits. 

##TABLE_END Beginning no later than July 1, 2021, CSC&#8217;s subsidiary broker-dealers will be permitted to reduce deposit balances swept to the Depository Institutions by up to $10 billion over each rolling 12-month period, subject to the maturity of fixed-term investments and certain carry-forward and look-back requirements and a requirement to maintain an aggregate minimum required balance of $50 billion. Subject to CSC maintaining this minimum required balance at the Depository Institutions, the Amended IDA Agreement will allow CSC&#8217;s subsidiary broker-dealers to sweep their customers&#8217; funds to CSC&#8217;s own subsidiary depository institutions, other depository institutions and other liquid investment options. 

CSC will receive from the Depository Institutions an aggregate monthly fee (the Sweep Arrangement Fee) that compensates CSC for its services under the Amended IDA Agreement based on the total amount of deposits swept to the Depository Institutions each month. The Sweep Arrangement Fee will be determined by reference to certain yields based on whether the balances are fixed-term obligations or floating rate short-term obligations, less a 15 basis point service fee paid by CSC to the Depository Institutions, less FDIC deposit assessments and less interest on deposits paid to customers. 

The Amended IDA Agreement will have an initial expiration date of July 1, 2031, subject to automatic renewal for a five-year term if not terminated by either CSC or the Depository Institutions two years prior to the expiration date. CSC&#8217;s subsidiary broker-dealers will be required to sweep 80% of customer balances under the Amended IDA Agreement into fixed-rate obligations until at least July 1, 2026. After July 1, 2026, they will be able to convert maturing fixed rate obligations into floating rate short-term obligations. 

The obligation of the parties to consummate the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, (i) the approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement by TD Ameritrade&#8217;s stockholders, including by the holders (other than TD Bank, certain other of TD Ameritrade stockholders who entered into voting and support agreements with CSC in connection with the merger (the Significant TD Ameritrade Stockholders) and their respective affiliates) of a majority of the outstanding shares of TD Ameritrade common stock (other than shares of TD Ameritrade common stock held by TD Bank, the Significant TD Ameritrade Stockholders and their respective affiliates), (ii) the approval by CSC&#8217;s stockholders of the issuance of CSC common shares in the transaction and an amendment to CSC&#8217;s certificate of incorporation to create CSC nonvoting common stock with 300 million shares authorized for issuance and (iii) receipt of applicable regulatory approvals. The obligation of CSC to consummate the merger is also subject to receipt of a determination or other acceptable confirmation from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) that the completion of the merger will not result in Schwab either (i) being deemed to be &#8220;controlled&#8221; by TD Bank or (ii) being deemed to be in &#8220;control&#8221; of any depository institution that may be controlled by TD Bank and to which TD Bank may cause funds to be swept under the Amended IDA Agreement, as &#8220;control&#8221; is interpreted by the Federal Reserve. With respect to the review of the transaction pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the HSR Act), on January 29, 2020, each of CSC and TD Ameritrade received a request for additional information and documentary material, often referred to as a &#8220;second request&#8221; from the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. CSC currently expects that the merger will be completed in the second half of 2020, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions. Under certain 

- 2 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

circumstances, CSC or TD Ameritrade could be required to pay the other party a termination fee of $950 million or reimburse the other party&#8217;s fees up to $50 million. 

Planned Acquisition of Assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company 

On July 25, 2019, the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company (USAA-IMCO), including over one million brokerage and managed portfolio accounts with approximately $90 billion in client assets at the time of announcement, for $1.8 billion in cash. The companies have also agreed to enter into a long-term referral agreement, effective at closing of the acquisition, that would make Schwab the exclusive wealth management and brokerage provider for USAA members. The transaction is expected to close in mid-2020, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the implementation of conversion plans. 

Business Strategy and Competitive Environment 

Schwab was founded on the belief that all Americans deserve access to a better investing experience. Although much has changed in the intervening years, our purpose remains clear &#8211; to champion every client&#8217;s goals with passion and integrity. Guided by this purpose and our vision of creating the most trusted leader in investment services, management has adopted a strategy described as &#8220;Through Clients&#8217; Eyes.&#8221; 

This strategy emphasizes placing clients&#8217; perspectives, needs, and desires at the forefront. Because investing plays a fundamental role in building financial security, we strive to deliver a better investing experience for our clients &#8211; individual investors and the people and institutions who serve them &#8211; by disrupting longstanding industry practices on their behalf and providing superior service. We also aim to offer a broad range of products and solutions to meet client needs with a focus on transparency, value, and trust. In addition, management works to couple Schwab&#8217;s scale and resources with ongoing expense discipline to keep costs low and ensure that products and solutions are affordable as well as responsive to client needs. In combination, these are the key elements of our &#8220;no trade-offs&#8221; approach to serving investors. We believe that following this strategy is the best way to maximize our market valuation and stockholder returns over time. 

Management estimates that investable wealth in the United States (U.S.) (consisting of assets in defined contribution, retail wealth management and brokerage, and registered investment advisor channels, along with bank deposits) currently exceeds $45 trillion, which means the Company&#8217;s $4.04 trillion in client assets leaves substantial opportunity for growth. Our strategy is based on the principle that developing trusted relationships will translate into more assets from both new and existing clients, ultimately driving more revenue, and along with expense discipline and thoughtful capital management, will generate earnings growth and build long-term stockholder value. 

Within Investor Services, our competition in serving individual investors spans brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In the Advisor Services arena, we compete with institutional custodians, traditional and discount brokers, banks, and trust companies. 

Across both segments, our key competitive advantages are: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Scale and Size of the Business &#8211; As one of the largest investment services firms in the U.S., we are able to spread operating costs and amortize new investments over a large base of clients, and harness the resources to evolve capabilities to meet client needs. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Operating Efficiency &#8211; Coupled with scale, our operating efficiency and sharing of infrastructure across different businesses creates a cost advantage that enables us to competitively price products and services while profitably serving clients of various sizes across multiple channels. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Operating Structure &#8211; Providing bank and asset management services to broker-dealer clients helps serve a wider array of needs, thereby deepening relationships, enhancing the stability of client assets, and enabling diversified revenue streams. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Brand and Corporate Reputation &#8211; In an industry dependent on trust, Schwab&#8217;s reputation and brand across multiple constituents enable us to attract clients and employees while credibly introducing new products to the market. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Service Culture &#8211; Delivering a great client experience earns the trust and loyalty of clients and increases the likelihood that those clients will refer others. 

##TABLE_END

- 3 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Willingness to Disrupt &#8211; Management&#8217;s willingness to challenge the status quo, including our own business practices, to benefit clients fosters innovation and continuous improvement, which helps to attract more clients and assets. 

##TABLE_END 

Sources of Net Revenues 

Our three largest sources of net revenues are net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and trading revenue. These revenue streams are supported by the combination of bank, broker-dealer, and asset management operating subsidiaries, each of which brings specific capabilities that enable us to provide clients with the products and services they are looking for. 

Net interest revenue is the difference between interest generated on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources, the majority of which is derived from client cash balances awaiting investment, held by Schwab as part of clients&#8217; overall relationship with the Company. While certain of these client cash balances are held on CS&#38;Co&#8217;s balance sheet or swept to our money market funds, a substantial amount of existing balances &#8211; and most new inflows of cash awaiting investment &#8211; are swept to our banking subsidiaries. Interest-earning assets are primarily comprised of high-quality fixed income securities, margin loans, and bank loans. 

The majority of asset management and administration fees are earned from proprietary money market mutual funds, proprietary and third-party mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and fee-based advisory solutions. 

Trading revenue includes commissions earned for executing trades for clients in individual equities, options, futures, fixed income securities, and certain third-party mutual funds and ETFs, as well as principal transaction revenue earned primarily from actions to support client trading in fixed income securities. Effective October 7, 2019, CS&#38;Co eliminated online trading commissions for U.S. and Canadian-listed stocks and ETFs, as well as the base charge on options. These pricing reductions are consistent with our vision of making investing accessible to all. Management believes they enhance both our value proposition and our competitive positioning, and will contribute to long-term growth in total client assets and client accounts at Schwab, thereby helping build long-term stockholder value. 

Products and Services 

We offer a broad range of products through intuitive end-to-end solutions, including robust digital capabilities, to address our clients&#8217; varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include the following: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Brokerage &#8211; an array of full-feature brokerage accounts with equity and fixed income trading, margin lending, options trading, and cash management capabilities including third-party certificates of deposit; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Mutual funds &#8211; third-party mutual funds through the Mutual Fund Marketplace &#174; , including non-transaction fee mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource &#174; service, which also includes proprietary mutual funds, plus mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Exchange-traded funds &#8211; an extensive offering of ETFs, including both proprietary and third-party ETFs; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Advice solutions &#8211; managed portfolios of both proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs, separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, specialized planning, and full-time portfolio management; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Banking &#8211; checking and savings accounts, first lien residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and pledged asset lines (PALs); and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Trust &#8211; trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services. 

##TABLE_END 

These investing services are made available through two business segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. Schwab&#8217;s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the reportable segments, based on their respective levels of client assets and activity. Revenue is attributable to a reportable segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in &#8220;Item 8 &#8211; Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8211; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; (Item 8) &#8211; Note 2 . 

Investor Services 

Charles Schwab initially founded the Company over 40 years ago to provide individual investors with access to the financial markets at a reasonable cost. The Company has been expanding offerings over time in response to client needs, aiming to 

- 4 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

provide a compelling and often disruptive solution in the marketplace. As products and services have evolved over the years, the Investor Services segment has expanded and now includes the Retail Investor, Retirement Plan Services, Mutual Fund Clearing Services, and Off-Platform Sales business units. 

Through the Retail Investor business unit, we offer individual investors a multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephone, and branch capabilities. We provide personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business with us. Financial Consultants (FCs) in Schwab&#8217;s branches and regional telephone service centers focus on building and sustaining client relationships. We have the ability to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. We believe that this ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an individually tailored approach &#8211; ranging from occasional consultations, to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or participation in one of our advisory solutions, which include referral to an independent RIA in the Schwab Advisor Network &#174; &#8211; is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented or limited offerings of other firms. 

Our service delivery model provides quick and efficient access to a broad lineup of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, clients that trade more actively can use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities &#8211; including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists, and integrated product offerings. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with a range of investment and banking products. 

Schwab strives to educate and assist clients in reaching their financial goals. Educational tools include workshops, webcasts, podcasts, interactive courses, and online information about investing, from which Schwab does not earn revenue. Additionally, we provide various online research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings &#174; is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings International &#174; , an international ranking methodology, covers stocks of approximately 4,000 foreign companies. 

Clients may seek specific investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. Schwab provides clients seeking advice with personalized solutions. Our approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab&#8217;s delivery channels. 

Schwab Private Client &#8482; features a personal advice relationship with a designated Private Client Advisor, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution. 

For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, Schwab offers several alternatives. We provide investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed Portfolios and the Windhaven Investment Management &#174; Strategies, or equity securities and ETFs through the ThomasPartners Investment Management &#174; Strategies. We also refer investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. Schwab Intelligent Portfolios &#174; , available since 2015, are for clients who are looking to have their assets professionally managed via a fully automated online investment advisory service. In late 2016, we introduced a hybrid advisory service, now called Schwab Intelligent Portfolios Premium &#8482; , to offer our clients an advisory service which combines unlimited guidance provided by a C ERTIFIED F INANCIAL P LANNER &#8482; and our robo-advice technology to make financial and investment planning more accessible to investors. In early 2020, we launched Schwab Intelligent Income &#8482; , a low-cost solution designed to offer a simple, modern way to generate income from existing investment portfolios. Finally, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to RIAs in the Schwab Advisor Network. These RIAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions. 

To meet the specific needs of clients who actively trade, Schwab offers integrated web- and software-based trading platforms, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock and futures research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management and decision support tools, and dedicated personal support. 

- 5 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

For U.S. clients wishing to invest in foreign equities, we offer a suite of global investing capabilities, including online access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, Schwab serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. Schwab serves non-English-speaking clients, including Mandarin-, Cantonese-, Spanish-, Vietnamese-, and Portuguese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices, web-based and telephonic services. 

We also offer equity compensation plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans, stock options, restricted stock, performance shares, and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking, and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. 

Our Retirement Plan Services business unit offers a bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides retirement plan sponsors with extensive investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Retirement plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. In addition to an open architecture investment platform, we offer access to low cost index mutual funds and ETFs. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of bundled offerings of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts, profit sharing, and defined benefit plans. 

Lastly, the Mutual Fund Clearing Services business unit provides open-end mutual fund trading, settlement, and related transactional services to banks, brokerage firms, and trust companies, and the Off-Platform Sales business unit offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and collective trust funds outside the Company and not on the Schwab platform. They are included within the Investor Services segment given their leveraging of the products and services offered to individual investors. 

Advisor Services 

More than thirty years ago, Schwab supported a small group of entrepreneurial advisors who challenged the industry by creating independent firms. Through the Advisor Services segment, Schwab has become one of the largest providers of custodial, trading, banking, and support services to RIAs and their clients. We also provide retirement business services to independent retirement advisors and recordkeepers. Management believes that we can maintain our market position primarily through the efforts of our sales, support, technology, and business consulting service teams, which are dedicated to helping RIAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, we utilize technology to provide RIAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients&#8217; assets easily and efficiently. Advisor Services sponsors and hosts a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help RIAs identify and implement better ways to expand and efficiently manage their practices. 

RIAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for RIAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including viewing and managing client account information and accessing news and market information. The website provides account servicing capabilities for RIAs, including account opening, money movement, transfer of assets, trading, checking status, and communicating with our service team. The site provides multi-year archiving of statements, trade confirms, and tax reports, along with document search capabilities. We also provide access to integrations with third-party platforms, which support a variety of advisor needs including client relationship management, portfolio management systems, trade order management, and financial planning. In early 2019, we released Schwab Advisor Portfolio Connect &#174; , a simplified portfolio management solution that is available free of charge to advisors to manage Schwab accounts. It delivers core capabilities and features through an intuitive modern experience, without the need to download and reconcile data. 

The Advisor Services website also provides interactive tools, educational content, and thought leadership for advisors turning independent. We offer a variety of services to help RIAs grow and manage their practices, including business, technology, and operations consulting on a range of topics critical to an RIA&#8217;s success, as well as an annual RIA benchmarking study to help firms understand key business metrics relative to peers. We also offer an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through a robust prospect consulting offer. To support them 

- 6 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

throughout their transition, we offer access to business start-up and transition consultants, technology engineers, and dedicated service teams. 

Schwab provides extensive educational materials, programs, and events to RIAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. We conduct industry research on an ongoing basis, and hold a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to RIAs, including business strategies and best practices. Schwab sponsors and hosts the annual IMPACT &#174; conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, RIAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights, as well as a multitude of smaller events across the country each year. 

RIAs and their clients have access to our broad range of products and services, including individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, fixed income products, managed accounts, cash products, bank lending, and trust services. By functioning as the custodian, Schwab earns revenue associated with the underlying client assets, predominantly through net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. In this capacity, we do not charge the RIA or end client a custody fee. 

The Advisor Services segment also includes the Retirement Business Services and Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services business units. Retirement Business Services provides trust, custody, and retirement business services to independent retirement plan advisors and independent recordkeepers. Retirement plan assets are held at the Business Trust division of CSB. The Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with our investment, technology, trust, and custodial services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans. 

Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services serves plan sponsors, advisors, and independent recordkeepers seeking a brokerage-based account to hold retirement plan assets. Retirement plans held at Schwab are either self-trusteed or trusteed by a separate, independent trustee. Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , and the Company Retirement Account, both of which are self-directed brokerage-based solutions designed to hold the assets of company-sponsored retirement plans. 

Regulation 

As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, Schwab is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). We are also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which we operate. These regulations affect our business operations and impose capital, client protection, and market conduct requirements. 

Holding Company and Bank Regulation 

CSC is a savings and loan holding company and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve. CSC&#8217;s principal depository institution subsidiary, CSB, is a federal savings bank and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). CSC and CSB are also subject to regulation and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws. 

This regulatory framework is designed to protect depositors and consumers, the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, and the stability of the banking system as a whole. This framework affects the activities and investments of CSC and its subsidiaries and gives the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies. Below is a discussion of significant regulations. Also see &#8220;Item 7 &#8211; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Current Regulatory Environment and Other Developments&#8221; for information regarding significant proposed rulemaking related to our regulation. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Framework 

Banking organizations are subject to the regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and the FDIC. In addition to minimum risk-based capital requirements, banking organizations 

- 7 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

must hold additional capital, referred to as a capital conservation buffer, to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

During 2019, depository institutions and their holding companies with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more, or total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more, were required to calculate their regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets using both a &#8220;standardized approach&#8221; and an &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; framework and to satisfy the minimum capital requirements under both approaches. Such companies were also required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of at least 3.0%, include accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in their calculation of their capital ratios, were subject to an incremental capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital if imposed by the banking agencies, referred to as the countercyclical capital buffer, and were subject to certain other enhanced provisions, including additional reporting requirements. The Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC all granted extensions and exemptions to CSC and its banking subsidiaries such that they would not be subject to the advanced approaches framework until June 30, 2020. As a result of crossing the $250 billion threshold in 2018, CSC and its banking subsidiaries in 2019 became subject to all other advanced approaches requirements &#8211; the supplementary leverage ratio, the inclusion of AOCI in the calculation of capital ratios, and the countercyclical capital buffer. 

The full liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) rule required banking organizations with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more, or total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets to hold high quality liquid assets (HQLA) in an amount equal to at least 100% of their projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated on each business day. CSC became subject to the full LCR rule in the second quarter of 2019 but until the beginning of 2020 was only required to calculate and comply with its LCR requirement as of the last business day of each calendar month. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC jointly adopted a final rule which became effective on December 31, 2019 (interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules) that revised the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The rules established four risk-based categories for determining the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to these institutions based on their total assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. CSC is subject to the requirements under Category III based on its total consolidated assets of between $250 billion and less than $700 billion and having less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity. 

Capital requirements for Category III banking organizations include the generally applicable risk-based capital and Tier 1 Leverage Ratio requirements (the &#8220;standardized approach&#8221; framework), the minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio, and the countercyclical capital buffer which is currently 0%. Category III organizations are no longer subject to the &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; regulatory capital framework and are permitted to opt out of including AOCI in their regulatory capital calculations. CSC made this opt out election, and commencing with the first quarter of 2020, now excludes AOCI from its regulatory capital. 

As revised by the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules, Category III banking organizations with less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, which includes CSC, and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to a reduced LCR rule requiring them to hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 85% of their projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated on each business day. If an institution&#8217;s weighted short-term wholesale funding is $75 billion or more, it will be required to comply with the full LCR rule and hold HQLA in an amount equal to 100% of its projected 30-day net cash outflows and will also be subject to daily (instead of monthly) liquidity reporting. 

Capital Stress Testing 

During 2019, savings and loan and bank holding companies and insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion were required to conduct annual company-run stress tests using certain scenarios and prescribed stress-testing methodologies under the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test rules. CSC reported the results to the Federal Reserve and CSB reported the results to the OCC. Both published summaries of their stress test results. 

In final enhanced prudential standards rules adopted concurrently in October 2019 with the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules, the Federal Reserve revised the capital stress testing regime applicable to savings and loan holding companies. Under the new Federal Reserve enhanced prudential standards rules, savings and loan holding companies that are Category III banking organizations are required to conduct biennial company-run stress tests in even-numbered years 

- 8 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

beginning in 2020. CSC will continue to be required to report the results of its stress testing to the Federal Reserve and publish a summary of its stress test results. In accordance with the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act enacted in May 2018, the OCC also adopted amendments to its company-run stress testing rule in October 2019, increasing the minimum threshold for Federal savings associations to conduct stress tests from $10 billion to $250 billion in consolidated assets. As a result, CSB is currently not subject to any company-run stress testing requirements. 

In its enhanced prudential standards rules, the Federal Reserve also made Category III savings and loan holding companies subject to an annual supervisory stress testing requirement in which the Federal Reserve conducts its own stress testing analysis to evaluate the ability of a holding company to absorb losses in specified economic and financial conditions over a nine-quarter planning horizon using such analytical techniques as the agency determines are appropriate. This supervisory stress testing requirement will go into effect for CSC beginning with the 2022 stress testing cycle. To implement this requirement, the Federal Reserve is also expanding the reporting requirements applicable to savings and loan holding companies commencing in the second quarter of 2020. The Federal Reserve has also indicated that in the future, large savings and loan holding companies, including CSC, will become subject to an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, which requires submission of an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. However, to date, the Federal Reserve has not yet proposed modifications to its existing capital planning requirements to extend them to savings and loan holding companies. 

Additional Enhanced Prudential Standards 

In addition to the revisions to the capital stress testing regime discussed above, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards rules will also extend the applicability of certain additional enhanced prudential standards to large savings and loan holding companies, with the specific requirements tailored based on the same four-category framework utilized in the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules. These additional enhanced prudential standards, which have been applicable to large U.S. bank holding companies under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act, include: risk management and risk committee requirements; liquidity risk management, stress testing, and buffer requirements; and single counterparty credit limits. CSC will be required to comply with the new risk management and risk committee requirements, as well as the new liquidity risk-management, stress testing, and buffer requirements commencing on January 1, 2021. The new single counterparty credit limits will go into effect for CSC on January 1, 2022. 

Insured Depository Institution Resolution Plans 

The FDIC requires insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure (resolution plans or so-called &#8220;living wills&#8221;) under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Under this requirement, CSB has been required to file with the FDIC a periodic resolution plan demonstrating how the bank could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able to: ensure that the bank&#8217;s depositors receive access to their deposits within one business day; maximize the net present value of the bank&#8217;s assets when disposed of; and minimize losses incurred by the bank&#8217;s creditors. In April 2019, the FDIC approved an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking comment on ways to tailor and improve its insured depository institution resolution plan rule. At the same time, the FDIC announced that it would delay the next round of resolution plan submissions under the rule until this rulemaking process has been completed. 

As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to any separate holding company resolution plan requirement. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority for a wide range of federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority over depository institutions with $10 billion or more in consolidated total assets. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC uses a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that, for large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets, uses a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution&#8217;s regulatory 

- 9 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. 

In July 2016, the FDIC imposed a flat-rate quarterly surcharge on insured depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion or more and certain of their bank affiliates to pay for an increase to the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of the assessment base. As a result, Schwab&#8217;s banking subsidiaries became subject to an additional 4.5 basis point surcharge on the amount of their aggregate assessment base in excess of $10 billion. In the third quarter of 2018, the DIF ratio exceeded 1.35%, and the FDIC eliminated the surcharge beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) requires the primary federal bank regulatory agency for each of Schwab&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries to assess the subsidiary&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings (&#8220;outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;needs to improve,&#8221; or &#8220;substantial noncompliance&#8221;). The failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions or opening branch offices. On January 9, 2020, the OCC and FDIC published their jointly proposed revisions to the regulations implementing the CRA. See Item 7 &#8211; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Current Regulatory Environment and Other Developments. 

Source of Strength 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve&#8217;s long-held position that a depository institution holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary depository institutions, the so-called &#8220;source of strength doctrine.&#8221; In effect, the holding company may be compelled to commit resources to support the subsidiary in the event the subsidiary is in financial distress. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisor Regulation 

Schwab&#8217;s principal broker-dealer is CS&#38;Co. CS&#38;Co is registered as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. CS&#38;Co and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, CS&#38;Co is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and trading activities it conducts as an introducing broker. 

Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs. CS&#38;Co is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), Nasdaq Stock Market, and NYSE Arca. In addition to the SEC, the primary regulators of CS&#38;Co are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is CS&#38;Co&#8217;s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. 

The principal purpose of regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and securities markets. The regulations cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients&#8217; funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. 

CS&#38;Co is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer and it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. If CS&#38;Co fails to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure could constitute a default by CSC of certain debt covenants under its credit agreement. 

The Uniform Net Capital Rule prohibits CS&#38;Co from paying cash dividends, making unsecured advances or loans or repaying subordinated loans if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000. 

- 10 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

In addition to net capital requirements, as a self-clearing broker-dealer, CS&#38;Co is subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearing houses, such as the Depository Trust &#38; Clearing Corporation and Options Clearing Corporation, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients&#8217; trading activity and market volatility. 

As a result of our operations in countries outside the U.S., we are also subject to rules and regulations issued by certain foreign authorities, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the U.K., the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) in Singapore, and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) in Australia. 

Financial Services Regulation 

Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 

CSC and its subsidiaries that conduct financial services activities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires financial institutions to develop and implement programs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with these regulations. The BSA and USA PATRIOT Act include a variety of monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as currency transaction reporting and suspicious activity reporting), as well as identity verification and client due diligence requirements which are intended to detect, report and/or prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition, CSC and various subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 

Available Information 

Schwab files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC filings are available to the public over the internet on the SEC&#8217;s website at https://www.sec.gov . 

On our website, https://www.aboutschwab.com , we post the following filings after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the website also includes the Dodd-Frank stress test results, our regulatory capital disclosures based on Basel III, and our quarterly average LCR. 

All such filings are available free of charge either on our website or by request via email ( investor.relations@schwab.com ), telephone (415-667-7000), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105). 

##TABLE_START 