Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Fifth Third Bancorp, while maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
fifth_third_bancorp_2020_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Pneumatic Tubes Are Hot Banking Tech --- Customers jam drive-through lanes again.......................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PneumaticTubesAreHotBankingTech---Customersjamdrive-throughlanesagain   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Pneumatic Tubes Are Hot Banking Tech --- Customers jam drive-through lanes again
          By Orla McCaffrey                                                       
          939 words                                                               
          7 July 2020                                                             
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
                                                                                  
          (END)                                                                   
          Even Brody, a Labrador retriever, is a new fan of the customer drive-through at the local Fifth Third Bancorp
          branch just north of Cincinnati.                                        
          After the bank closed its lobbies during the pandemic, Brody's owner, Julie Phillippi-Whitney, switched to the
          drive-through lane for her public-relations business, putting checks into cylinders that travel via pneumatic
          tube from the driver's side of her car to a teller inside.              
                                                                                  
          The cylinders return with dog treats. "He thinks the drive-through at Fifth Third is a giant Milk-Bone
          dispensary," said Ms. Phillippi-Whitney, who kept to her car-lane habit even after the bank reopened branch
          lobbies in June.                                                        
                                                                                  
          Tiffany Ross, a manager for Fifth Third, estimated that her Cincinnati branch went through 15 such containers
          in 2 1/2 months in the spring, a surprising number. While waiting for replacements, one of the branch's private
          bankers took busted containers home to glue back together.              
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Inc. reactivated about 30 drive-up teller windows after city and state authorities started telling
          people to stay home. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Fifth Third also have added
          drive-through capacity.                                                 
          Mrs. Ross, of Fifth Third in Cincinnati, said closing the bank lobby was tough on customers who prefer to do
          business with a teller. "We have 50 regulars that just come in every day and chat with us," she said.
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 4 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
``` 

I've removed all content that didn't specifically mention Fifth Third Bancorp while preserving:
1. The original header/footer formatting
2. The table of contents entry
3. Page number markers
4. All Fifth Third-specific content including:
   - The story about Brody the Labrador
   - Tiffany Ross's comments
   - The mention of Fifth Third's expanded drive-through capacity