Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to Citigroup Inc. and maintaining the original formatting and table of contents:

```
citigroup_inc_2020_Q3
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Gives Wall Street a Sober Message ......................................................................................................... 2
          Citi Faces Rebuke For Its Handling Of Risk --- Expected regulatory demand for changes accelerated the bank's
          CEO succession plan ............................................................................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Citigroup's New CEO Faces Familiar Risks --- Jane Fraser to start with solid foundation, but pandemic keeps
          credit cards a major pivot point ................................................................................................................................ 8
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Feuds With Hedge Fund ......................................................................................................................... 10
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupGivesWallStreetaSoberMessage                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Citigroup Gives Wall Street a Sober Message                             
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          523 words                                                               
          16 September 2020                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B14                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Incoming Chief Executive Jane Fraser's historic appointment last week shed a light on Citigroup's upside
          potential. But investors hoping that might spark a rebound were greeted instead by news Monday that "the
          next phase" of the bank's investment will be "strengthening" and "transforming" its risk and control
          environment -- and a subsequent 13% correction in the shares over Monday through Tuesday's close.
          A presentation by the bank detailed $1 billion in investments in 2020. That is roughly 2% of analysts' forecast
          for 2020 operating expenses. However, the bank noted that tech enhancements were generating productivity
          savings to fund more investment. This "should create capacity for these investments while holding expenses
          more or less flat," Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason said at the Barclays Global Financial Services
          Conference.                                                             
          This week's stock move is perhaps an overreaction to that level of overall spending. But there is context to
          consider: The investment comes as Citigroup is in the midst of dealing with a breakdown that led to an
          erroneous $900 million bond payment. The Wall Street Journal also reported that federal regulators are
          preparing to reprimand Citigroup for failing to improve risk systems.   
          Trading at one of the steepest discounts to book value among its peers, Citigroup has huge potential for a
          sharp turnaround. Yet the timing of any rebound is increasingly hard to figure.
          For one, the pandemic's continuing effect on banks' overall expense plans is still murky. Banks have had to
          spend to accommodate employees and customers and to make emergency small-business loans. Wells
          Fargo, in the midst of an even wider cost overhaul, said on Monday that it paused layoffs at the start of the
          pandemic. Yet at the same time, Fifth Third Bancorp on Monday noted the trend toward digital banking was
          accelerating its tech-investment returns and its ability to rationalize its branch network.
          Also, Citigroup was more downbeat about economic trends than some peers. A big question is what that
          means for credit, particularly cards. Mr. Mason said on Monday that the bank's latest forecast "contemplates
          a somewhat slower pace of economic recovery, particularly in the U.S.," noting slower rehiring and less
          pickup in travel spend than the bank initially expected.                
          Citigroup anticipates making further reserve builds in the third quarter, though "meaningfully lower" than so
          far this year. Mr. Mason did say that "we also see strong payment trends" for card borrowers, and that the
          bank wasn't yet seeing signs of outsize losses.                         
          Meanwhile, Fifth Third said that "indicators are moving in a more favorable direction" and says based on that,
          "a further reserve build appears to be unlikely." Wells Fargo was a bit more ambivalent, saying "it's probably a
          little too soon to say that things are better than previously forecast," but also that "they're probably not worse
          than previously forecast."                                              
          Beaten-up bank stocks like Citigroup remain tempting turnaround bets. But with the rest of the market hitting
          new highs, the cost of waiting for banking's turn is steep.             
          page,5043                                                               
          Document J000000020200916eg9g0000e                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitiFacesRebukeForItsHandlingOfRisk---Expectedregulatorydemandforchangesacceleratedthebank'sCEOsuccessionplan
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citi Faces Rebuke For Its Handling Of Risk --- Expected regulatory demand for changes accelerated
          the bank's CEO succession plan                                          
          By David Benoit and Ben Eisen                                           
          976 words                                                               
          15 September 2020                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Federal regulators are preparing to reprimand Citigroup Inc. for failing to improve its risk-management
          systems -- an expansive set of technology and procedures designed to detect problematic transactions,
          risky trades and anything else that could harm the bank.                
          The expected rebuke from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve accelerated
          planning for Chief Executive Michael Corbat's retirement, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Regulators didn't ask Mr. Corbat to step down, the people said. Rather, he came to believe that an expensive,
          multiyear systems overhaul designed to address regulators' concerns was best left in the hands of his
          successor, Jane Fraser, they said.                                      
          Citigroup said on Thursday Mr. Corbat would retire in February, surprising analysts and investors who
          expected him to remain in the job for a few more years.                 
          The rebuke, which would come in the form of a consent order, likely would require Citigroup to develop and
          execute a plan to fix its risk systems, the people said. Such formal regulatory actions sometimes come with
          fines or stricter oversight, but it isn't clear what, if any, punishment would be imposed, they said.
          "We are completely committed to improving our risk and control environment," a Citigroup spokeswoman
          said, citing the bank's efforts to strengthen controls, infrastructure and governance. "However, while we have
          made significant and demonstrable progress in each of these areas, we recognize that we are not yet where
          we need to be and that has to change."                                  
          Citigroup's shares closed down 5.6% to $48.15 on Monday after The Wall Street Journal reported the
          expected regulatory action. The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index rose 1.8%.        
          For years, regulators have privately pressed Citigroup and Mr. Corbat to fix the bank's risk systems,
          according to people familiar with the matter. A public rebuke would significantly ratchet up the pressure. The
          Fed and the OCC have many tools at their disposal to address problems out of the public eye. A consent
          order indicates that those methods didn't achieve the desired results.  
          Regulators have faulted Citi's management for not giving priority to the risk-management overhaul, the people
          said. A recent high-profile flub -- Citigroup's accidental $900 million payment to creditors of cosmetics
          company Revlon Inc. -- was seen as evidence of weaknesses in the system, the people said.
          Mr. Corbat, who has run the bank since 2012, had been expected to retire sometime around 2022. Citigroup
          elevated Ms. Fraser last year to president and put her in charge of its consumer bank, establishing her as the
          front-runner to succeed Mr. Corbat.                                     
          Mr. Corbat was quietly planning a 2021 exit but hadn't discussed the exact timing with Ms. Fraser or the
          board, some of the people said. Over the Labor Day weekend, he decided he would retire after closing out
          2020, in part because of the work needed to address regulators' concerns, the people said.
          In memos to Citigroup staff Thursday, both Mr. Corbat and Ms. Fraser acknowledged that the bank needs to
          transform its internal systems for risk and compliance.                 
                                                                                  
          Mr. Corbat is widely credited with sharpening the bank's focus and reducing its sprawl during his eight years
          as CEO. Yet the bank has long struggled to convince regulators that it was moving fast enough to address
          their concerns.                                                         
          The Federal Reserve gave Citigroup in 2014 a failing grade on its annual stress test, citing the bank's gaps in
          assessing risk in its capital planning. The bank revamped its risk models and hired more compliance
          employees. It hasn't failed the test since.                             
          Page 3 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup is still operating under consent orders from 2012 and 2013 that required it to improve its
          anti-money-laundering processes. The OCC fined it in 2017 for failing to comply with the 2012 order.
          At issue now is the infrastructure underpinning its broader risk systems, a legacy of a string of deals in the
          1990s that transformed the bank into a financial supermarket. For instance, many of Citigroup's various
          businesses -- commercial banking, credit cards, corporate-advisory services, to name a few -- run on their
          own independent systems that have their own methods for tracking customers and transactions. There are
          hundreds of identification systems inside the bank. A customer doing business with several parts of the bank
          could have different identification codes for each one.                 
          Banking regulators require banks to track customers across all of their operations. The idea is to catch crimes
          like money laundering and avoid errors that could harm customers. While Citigroup is able to keep tabs on
          customers across its businesses, regulators worry that its mishmash of systems makes it vulnerable to costly
          and potentially damaging missteps, people familiar with the matter said.
          Citigroup in recent months has tried to highlight its efforts to shore up its systems and convince regulators it is
          taking their concerns seriously. In January, a Citigroup executive told Bloomberg News the bank would hire
          2,500 coders to work on the technology underpinning its investment- and corporate-banking businesses,
          with an eye toward improving the bank's ability to use the data they generate.
          In June, it named a new compliance chief and hired Karen Peetz, the former president of Bank of New York
          Mellon Corp., to fill the new role of chief administrative officer. Ms. Peetz was given authority over broad bank
          safety projects, including those aimed at improving data and anti-money-laundering efforts. At the time, Mr.
          Corbat said she would bring "consistency and clarity" to dealings with regulators.
          Mr. Corbat has said the investments, which total $1 billion this year alone, would make Citigroup safer and
          more competitive.                                                       
          ---                                                                     
                                                                                  
          Christina Rexrode contributed to this article.                          
          Document J000000020200915eg9f0004c                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup'sNewCEOFacesFamiliarRisks---JaneFrasertostartwithsolidfoundation,butpandemickeepscreditcardsamajorpivotpoint
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Citigroup's New CEO Faces Familiar Risks --- Jane Fraser to start with solid foundation, but pandemic
          keeps credit cards a major pivot point                                  
          By Telis Demos                                                          
          416 words                                                               
          11 September 2020                                                       
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          [Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
          Next year, Citigroup will have a new chief executive for the first time in nearly a decade. But it will still face
          some familiar challenges.                                               
          The global banking giant said Jane Fraser will succeed Michael Corbat next year, when he retires. Ms. Fraser
          is a veteran of many of the bank's units and currently president and global head of consumer banking. She
          will be the first woman to lead a major Wall Street bank.               
          The vital questions that faced Mr. Corbat when he took over -- such as whether the bank can routinely pass
          stress tests and achieve an acceptable return on equity -- were answered in the affirmative. Citigroup's stock
          was a star in 2019, leading its peers with a more than 50% gain.        
          Now, the bank's earnings outlook depends in large part on when it can stop adding loan-loss reserves and
          start releasing them, and when it can accelerate lending growth again. That depends on consumers and their
          credit cards.                                                           
          Credit cards have long been one of investors' biggest pivot points for Citigroup, despite its globe-spanning
          institutional payments and retail banking businesses. It is the most heavily reserved of any major U.S. bank
          when measuring provisions as a percentage of 2020 projected severe stress-test losses, at 55%, according
          to analyst Steven Chubak of Wolfe Research.                             
          That isn't necessarily a function of pessimism. In fact, analysts at Autonomous Research note Citigroup has a
          relatively less pessimistic base unemployment and GDP outlook than some peers. It is more a reflection of
          the bank's assets being weighted toward credit-card loans, which seem to be the most at risk due to the
          pandemic.                                                               
          This leaves Citigroup in a familiar position, despite its progress: heavily discounted, but with upside potential.
          It is trading at one of the lowest ratios of price-to-tangible book value among its peers at under 0.75 times.
                                                                                  
          As a veteran of many of the bank's businesses, Ms. Fraser is well-suited to maximize Citigroup's long-term
          potential by figuring out how best to exploit digital banking and wringing maximum revenue out of its vast
          global footprint in money flows. But Wall Street probably won't give her much credit for any of that until the
          bank is clear of near-term risks in cards.                              
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 8 of 12 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CitigroupFeudsWithHedgeFund                                             
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Citigroup Feuds With Hedge Fund                                         
          By Matt Wirz, Becky Yerak and Alexander Gladstone                       
          1,300 words                                                             
          8 September 2020                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Citigroup Inc. and a big hedge-fund client are locked in an uncharacteristically public feud that has embroiled
          top executives at both firms and laid bare a $900 million mistaken payment by the bank.
          At the root of the dispute: Citi's role helping billionaire investor Ron Perelman restructure the corporate loans
          of cosmetics company Revlon Inc. Some investors wanted Citi to bow out of the transaction; when it didn't,
          they blamed the bank for facilitating a deal that hurt their investments, according to people familiar with the
          matter and court documents.                                             
          Chief among those investors: $28 billion money manager Brigade Capital Management LP.
          Until recently, Brigade and its founder, Donald Morgan, had worked closely with Citi. Brigade had hired Citi to
          help it raise at least $1.5 billion of new loan funds over the past two years, according to S&P Global Market
          Intelligence. The bank had also advised Mr. Morgan on potential merger-and-acquisition opportunities for
          Brigade in previous years, people familiar with the matter said.        
          Now Citi and Brigade are slugging it out in court, cutting ties and arguing over the return of around $170
          million the fund received when the bank accidentally paid Revlon lenders about $900 million. Citi even took
          the extraordinary step last month of backing out of a nearly completed deal to arrange a $400 million
          collateralized loan obligation for Brigade as well as another deal that was in earlier stages, according to
          people familiar with the matter. This cost the bank about $1 million in lost fees, the people said.
          "Though our fiduciary duty to our clients has put us into conflict with Citibank relating to their role as agent on
          the Revlon Term Loan, Brigade has not sought to limit any other business or trading activity with Citibank as
          a consequence of this specific disagreement," a spokeswoman for Brigade said.
          The fight is an example