 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Financial Instrument Market Risk Information 

The Company is naturally exposed to various interest rate and foreign currency risks. In an effort to mitigate the effects of such risks, the Company enters into derivative transactions to manage certain of these exposures that arise in the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative positions or trading. The Company manages the relationships of the types and amounts of its funding sources to its Receivable and Lease portfolios in an effort to diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate exposure. The Company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations related to financing in currencies other than the functional currencies. The Company has entered into derivative agreements related to the management of these foreign currency transaction risks.

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest rates rose in 2022 and further central bank policy rate increases are projected in 2023. Rising interest rates have historically impacted the Company&#8217;s borrowings sooner than the benefit is realized from the Receivable and Lease portfolio. As a result, the Company&#8217;s financing spread was unfavorably impacted in 2022 compared to 2021. If interest rates continue to rise, the Company expects to continue experiencing spread compression in 2023.

Quarterly, the Company uses a combination of cash flow models to assess the sensitivity of its financial instruments with interest rate exposure to changes in market interest rates. The models calculate the effect of adjusting interest rates as follows. Cash flows for Receivables are discounted at the current prevailing rate for each Receivable portfolio. Cash flows for unsecured borrowings are discounted at the applicable benchmark yield curve plus market credit spreads for similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for securitized borrowings are discounted at the swap yield curve plus a market credit spread for similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for interest rate swaps are projected and discounted using forward rates from the swap yield curve at the repricing dates. The net loss in these financial instruments&#8217; fair values, which would be caused by increasing the interest rates by 10 percent from the market rates at October 30, 2022 and October 31, 2021, would have been approximately $115 million and $100 million, respectively.

The Company continues to transition its Receivables, funding, and hedging portfolios from LIBOR to alternative reference rates. These transition activities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s financial statements.

Foreign Currency Risk 

The Company&#8217;s policy is to manage foreign currency risk through hedging strategies if the currency of the borrowings does not match the currency of the Receivable portfolio. As a result, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all other foreign currencies would not have a material effect on the Company&#8217;s cash flows.

