 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Truist Financial Corporation is a purpose-driven financial services company committed to inspiring and building better lives and communities. Truist has leading market share in many high-growth markets in the country. The Company offers a wide range of services. Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Truist is a top 10 U.S. commercial bank. 

Truist Bank, Truist&#8217;s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Truist Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for clients through 2,123 offices as of December 31, 2022 and its digital platform. 

Services 

Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries offer commercial and consumer clients a full array of products and services to meet their financial needs. The following table reflects examples of services provided by Truist: ##TABLE_START Table 1: Services &#160; Consumer Services: &#160; Commercial Services: Asset management Asset based lending Automobile lending Asset management Credit card lending Commercial deposit and treasury services Consumer finance Commercial lending Home equity and other direct retail lending Floor plan lending Home mortgage lending Derivatives Insurance Institutional trust services Investment brokerage services Insurance Mobile/online banking Insurance premium finance Payment solutions International banking Point-of-sale lending Investment banking and capital markets services Retail and small business deposit products Leasing Small business lending Merchant services Student lending Mortgage warehouse lending Wealth management/private banking Payment solutions Real estate lending Supply chain financing ##TABLE_END

Market Area 

The following table reflects Truist&#8217;s deposit market share and branch locations by state: ##TABLE_START Table 2: Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State &#160; % of Truist&#8217;s Deposits (2) Deposit Market Share Rank (2) Number of Branches (3) Florida 23 % 3rd 472 Georgia 19 1st 222 Virginia 15 2nd 286 North Carolina (1) 13 1st 297 Maryland 7 3rd 155 Tennessee 5 4th 108 Pennsylvania 4 8th 157 South Carolina 4 3rd 99 Texas 2 22nd 106 West Virginia 2 1st 48 Kentucky 2 4th 61 Washington, D.C. 2 5th 24 Alabama 1 7th 59 New Jersey 1 25th 23 Other states NA NA 6 ##TABLE_END

(1) Deposit market share rank excludes home office deposits. 

(2) Source: FDIC.gov data as of June 30, 2022. 

(3) As of December 31, 2022. 

4 Truist Financial Corporation 

Competition 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive and constantly evolving. Management believes that Truist&#8217;s client-first approach is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company&#8217;s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. In addition, management has made significant investments in recent years to develop Truist&#8217;s digital platform and believes that its mobile and online applications are highly competitive in meeting clients&#8217; expectations. Legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation within the industry, could result in increased competition from new and existing market participants. Truist&#8217;s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional, and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies, financial technology companies, and insurance companies. The ability of non-banking entities, including financial technology companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has increased competition. Non-banking entities are not subject to the same regulatory framework as banks and BHCs, and therefore, can often operate with greater flexibility and lower costs. In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction because it affects the Company&#8217;s ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Management believes that the Company is well positioned to compete and that its continued focus on touch and technology will engender trust among its current and future clients. 

General Business Development 

Truist seeks to satisfy all of its clients&#8217; financial needs, enabling the Company to grow and diversify its sources of revenue and profitability. Truist&#8217;s long-term strategy encompasses both organic and inorganic growth, including mergers or acquisitions of complementary financial institutions or other businesses. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy 

The Company operates a diverse set of business lines nationally, with strong market shares concentrated in high growth markets in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. Truist will continue to pursue strategic mergers and acquisitions to enhance growth, when market conditions, business objectives, profitability, and market share considerations align to create favorable opportunities. Such opportunities might include insurance agencies, financial services businesses that strengthen Truist&#8217;s capabilities, and banks that enhance Truist&#8217;s market position. 

Truist&#8217;s merger and acquisition strategy focuses on meeting the following criteria: 

&#8226; the merger or acquisition must be strategically attractive in that it: 

&#9702; enhances scale and increases revenue via expanded markets and/or products; 

&#9702; improves the client experience; and 

&#9702; solidifies Truist&#8217;s position within the future of banking; 

&#8226; the organization must be a good fit with Truist&#8217;s culture; 

&#8226; associated risks must be identified and mitigation plans put in place, such that any residual risks fall within Truist&#8217;s risk appetite; and 

&#8226; the transaction must meet Truist&#8217;s financial criteria. 

Regulatory Considerations 

The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. In addition to banking laws and regulations, Truist is subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of Truist and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Truist and its subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. 

Banking and other financial services statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Truist and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Truist, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on its business or organization. 

Truist Financial Corporation 5 

The scope of the laws and regulations, and the intensity of the supervision to which Truist is subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors, including technological factors, market changes, climate change concerns, as well as increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal bank regulators. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Truist expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws to which Truist is subject. These descriptions do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions. 

General 

As a BHC, Truist is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to regulation, examination, and supervision by the FRB. Truist Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the NCCOB and the FDIC. Truist Bank and its affiliates are also subject to examination by the CFPB for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws. 

Truist and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in derivatives transactions, securities underwriting, market making, brokerage, investment advisory, and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other federal and state regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, and NFA. Truist Bank is also subject to additional state and federal laws, as well as various compliance regulations, that govern its activities, the investments it makes, and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. 

Examinations by Truist&#8217;s regulators consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, the ability and performance of management, and the board of directors, the effectiveness of internal controls, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Following those examinations, Truist and Truist Bank are assigned supervisory ratings. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings, which are considered confidential supervisory information, could materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of Truist&#8217;s operations. 

Under the FRB&#8217;s Large Financial Institution Rating System, component ratings are assigned for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. To be considered &#8220;well managed&#8221; under this rating system, a firm must be rated &#8220;broadly meets expectations&#8221; or &#8220;conditionally meets expectations&#8221; for each of its three component ratings. 

The results of examinations by any of Truist&#8217;s federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on Truist&#8217;s activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad enforcement authority and discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines that the operations of the regulated entity or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, or represent an unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice. 

FHC Regulation 

Truist has elected to be treated as an FHC, which allows it to engage in a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permissible for a BHC, including activities that are financial in nature or incidental thereto, such as securities underwriting or merchant banking. While FHCs may engage in certain acquisitions without prior approval of the FRB, any acquisition over $10 billion in assets would require prior approval by the FRB. In order to maintain its status as an FHC, Truist and its affiliated IDI must be well-capitalized and well-managed and Truist Bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that a FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the FRB may impose corrective capital and managerial requirements on the FHC and may place limitations on its ability to conduct certain business activities that FHCs are generally permitted to conduct and its ability to make certain acquisitions. If the failure to meet these standards persists, a FHC may be required to divest its IDI subsidiaries or cease all activities other than those activities that may be conducted by BHCs that are not FHCs. Furthermore, if an IDI subsidiary of a FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. Longstanding federal regulations require a FHC to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. In times of severe financial stress, the obligation to serve as a source of strength could cause Truist to commit significant resources to supporting Truist Bank that otherwise would be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. 

6 Truist Financial Corporation 

Resolution Planning 

As a Category III banking organization, Truist is required to submit to the FRB and FDIC a resolution plan every three years with submissions alternating between a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan. The FRB and the FDIC must review and evaluate Truist&#8217;s resolution plan. The FRB and FDIC are authorized to impose restrictions on growth and activities or operations if the agencies determine that a resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could require the banking organization to divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. Truist submitted its inaugural resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC in September 2021. On September 30, 2022, the FRB and FDIC announced that they did not identify any shortcomings or deficiencies in Truist&#8217;s resolution plan. On the same date, the FRB and FDIC also announced that they intend to issue guidance to assist Category II and Category III banking organizations in further developing their resolution plans, in advance of the next round of resolution plans due on July 1, 2024. 

In addition, Truist Bank, as an IDI, is required by FDIC regulation to file a separate bank level resolution plan every three years. The FDIC issued a policy statement in June 2021 announcing that it will resume requiring bank level resolution plans for large banks, including Truist Bank, and that such bank-level resolution plans will have more streamlined content requirements than previous requirements. During 2021, Truist Bank was informed by the FDIC that its next resolution plan was due on or before December 1, 2022. Truist Bank submitted its inaugural IDI resolution plan to the FDIC in November 2022, which is currently under review. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Regulatory Tailoring Rules 

Certain U.S. BHCs, including Truist, are subject to enhanced prudential standards. As such, Truist is subject to more stringent liquidity and capital requirements, leverage limits, stress testing, single-counterparty credit limits, resolution planning and risk management standards than those applicable to smaller institutions. Certain larger banking organizations are subject to additional enhanced prudential standards. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Truist is subject to the standards applicable to Category III banking organizations, which generally include BHCs with greater than $250 billion, but less than $700 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-related exposures. 

Capital Requirements 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to certain risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements established by the FRB, for Truist, and by the FDIC, for Truist Bank. These requirements are based on the capital framework developed by the BCBS for strengthening the regulation, supervision, and risk management of banks under Basel III rules, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the FRB and FDIC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on Truist&#8217;s operations or financial condition. These actions could include requiring Truist to commit capital to Truist Bank in abnormal operating conditions which would otherwise be available to Truist&#8217;s creditors and shareholders. Failure to be well capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could also result in restrictions on Truist&#8217;s or Truist Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval for acquisitions. 

Under the regulatory capital rules, Truist&#8217;s and Truist Bank&#8217;s assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights under the standardized approach used to determine the institutions&#8217; risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Truist and Truist Bank: 

&#8226; CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders&#8217; equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI. 

&#8226; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock, and certain qualifying capital instruments. 

&#8226; Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital, and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities. 

Truist Financial Corporation 7 

Under the FRB&#8217;s capital framework for BHCs, Truist is subject to capital requirements, including the SCB, that are determined from the supervisory stress test results. The SCB is equal to the greater of (i) the difference between Truist&#8217;s starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of the dollar amount of its planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5%. The FRB assigned Truist an SCB of 2.5%, which is effective from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023, at which point a revised SCB will be calculated and provided to Truist. Truist is required to describe its planned capital actions in its CCAR capital plan, but is no longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capital plan. Instead, Truist is subject to automatic distribution limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements, which include the SCB. 

For certain large banking organizations, the SCB could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This buffer is currently set at zero. An FRB policy statement establishes the framework and factors the FRB would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer. Covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement, unless the FRB determines to establish an earlier effective date. If the full countercyclical buffer amount is implemented, Truist and Truist Bank would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11.0%, and a Total capital ratio of at least 13.0% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

Certain large banking organizations with trading assets and liabilities above certain thresholds, including Truist, are subject to the Market Risk Rule and must adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk of their trading activities. Refer to the &#8220;Market Risk&#8221; section of the MD&#38;A for additional disclosures related to market risk management. 

Truist and Truist Bank are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets, net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and certain other deductions. Category III banking organizations are also subject to a minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure, which takes into account on-balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure of derivative contracts. 

The FRB has not yet revised the well-capitalized standard for BHCs to reflect capital requirements imposed under the Basel III Rules. For purposes of certain FRB rules, including determining whether a BHC meets the requirements to be a FHC, BHCs, such as Truist, must maintain a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 10.0% or greater to meet the well-capitalized minimum. The FRB may require BHCs, including Truist, to maintain capital ratios in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a BHC&#8217;s particular condition, risk profile, and growth plans. In September 2022, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC announced that they are developing a joint proposed rule to implement enhanced regulatory capital standards that align with those included in the Basel III Rules and plan to seek public input on the new capital standards as soon as possible. Refer to the &#8220;Capital&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for disclosures containing the minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios applicable to Category III banking organizations. 

In 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule that permitted banking organizations to elect to delay temporarily the implementation of CECL until January 2022 and subsequently to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital through January 2025, which Truist elected to use. Under the five-year transition, Truist deferred for two years 100% of the day-one effect of adopting CECL and 25% of the cumulative increase or decrease in the allowance for credit losses since adoption of CECL. Following the first two years, Truist began to phase in the aggregate capital effects over the next three years consistent with the transition in the original three-year transition rule. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

In addition to the regulatory capital requirements, under the FRB&#8217;s CCAR process, Truist must submit an annual capital plan to the FRB that reflects its projected financial performance under hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. 

The FRB&#8217;s CCAR framework and the Dodd-Frank Act stress testing framework also require BHCs subject to Category III standards, such as Truist, to conduct company-run stress tests and submit to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. The company-run stress tests employ stress scenarios provided by the FRB and incorporate the Dodd-Frank Act capital actions, which are intended to normalize capital distribution assumptions across large U.S. BHCs. In addition, Truist is required to conduct annual stress tests using internally-developed scenarios intended to stress the unique risk profile of the institution. The FRB also conducts CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests employing internal supervisory models on the supervisory stress scenarios. As a Category III banking organization, Truist is subject to supervisory stress testing on an annual basis and company-run stress testing on a biennial basis. 

8 Truist Financial Corporation 

Truist is required to submit its next capital plan and the results of its own stress tests to the FRB by April 5, 2023. The FRB is required to announce the results of its supervisory stress tests by June 30, 2023. 

In addition to the CCAR stress testing for Truist, Truist Bank conducts company-run stress tests on an annual basis, while only required biennially. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Certain BHCs and their bank subsidiaries, including Truist and Truist Bank, are subject to a minimum LCR. The LCR is designed to ensure that BHCs have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress event lasting for 30 calendar days. 

Truist also is subject to FRB rules that require certain large BHCs to conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC&#8217;s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets certain requirements. 

In July 2021, Truist became subject to final rules implementing the NSFR, which are designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain a stable, long-term funding profile in relation to their asset composition and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR, calculated as the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding, must exceed 1.0x. Available stable funding represents a weighted measure of a company&#8217;s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to the company&#8217;s equity and liabilities based on their expected stability. Required Stable Funding is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III banking organization, Truist and Truist Bank are subject to an NSFR requirement equal to 85% of the full requirement. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, and it depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Truist Bank, to fund its activities, including its ability to make capital distributions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing shares. Under federal law, there are various limitations on the extent to which Truist Bank can declare and pay dividends to the Parent Company, including those related to regulatory capital requirements, general regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, and federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits, surplus, and available earnings. Certain contractual restrictions also may limit the ability of Truist Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. No assurances can be given that Truist Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to the Parent Company. 

The Parent Company&#8217;s ability to declare and pay dividends is similarly limited by federal banking law and FRB regulations and policy. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from making capital distributions if they would be deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC&#8217;s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In addition, the Parent Company&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing capital securities, is subject to the FRB&#8217;s automatic restrictions on capital distributions under the FRB&#8217;s capital rules. Truist&#8217;s risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements are discussed above in the &#8220;Capital Requirements&#8221; section. 

North Carolina law provides that, as long as a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies are required to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five categories for this purpose: &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; To be considered &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; an IDI must maintain minimum capital ratios and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An institution that fails to remain well-capitalized becomes subject to a series of restrictions that increase in severity as its capital condition weakens. Such restrictions may include a prohibition on capital distributions, restrictions on asset growth, or restrictions on the ability to receive regulatory approval of applications. The regulations apply only to banks and not to BHCs. However, the FRB is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of the holding company&#8217;s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the BHC, in its capacity as a source of strength would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s capital restoration plan and could be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee commitments. 

Truist Financial Corporation 9 

In addition, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. Failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which Truist and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with Truist Bank. Under the Federal Reserve Act and FRB regulations, Truist Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between Truist Bank and its non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Acquisitions 

Truist is subject to numerous laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations&#8217; compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the IDIs involved in the transaction. 

Federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation, and a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to market share limitations, regulatory approvals and any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time. The market share limitations impose conditions that the acquiring BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of IDIs in the U.S. and no more than 30%, subject to variation by state law, of such deposits in applicable states. FRB rules also prohibit a FHC from combining with another company if the resulting company&#8217;s liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 

After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

The standards by which bank and financial institution acquisitions are evaluated are under review. Among other things, in July 2021, an executive order was issued on competition that requires the banking agencies to review the standards for bank mergers, and the Department of Justice has announced that it is reviewing its bank merger guidelines. In March 2022, the FDIC requested information and public input on all aspects of the existing regulatory framework that applies to bank merger transactions. Additionally, some members of Congressional leadership are closely tracking the standards for bank mergers and can be expected to engage in hearings and public statements in connection with any pending or future merger activity. These reviews and engagements could change the standards for bank mergers. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

The FRB has supervisory and enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order, or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of confidential supervisory actions, cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties, or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their IDI subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to depositors and the DIF in the event the IDI is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, the FRB requires a BHC to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary IDIs and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. 

10 Truist Financial Corporation 

Banking regulators also have broad supervisory and enforcement powers over Truist Bank, including the power to impose confidential supervisory actions, fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of Truist Bank for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The NCCOB also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

DIF Assessments 

Truist Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for an IDI based on an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each IDI poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan in September 2020 to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed the statutory minimum of 1.35% within eight years. This plan did not include an increase in the deposit insurance assessment rate. Based on the FDIC&#8217;s recent projections, however, the FDIC determined that the DIF reserve ratio is at risk of not reaching the statutory minimum by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2028 without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates. In October 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules uniformly by 2 basis points, beginning on January 1, 2023. This rule is expected to increase Truist&#8217;s regulatory premiums by approximately $100 million annually. The FDIC also concurrently maintained the Designated Reserve Ratio for the DIF at 2%. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Truist Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The CFPB examines Truist and Truist Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile, student, and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services offered. The federal consumer financial protection laws that are subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervision and enforcement powers include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, HMDA, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Housing Act. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. 

The CFPB may issue regulations that impact products and services offered by Truist or Truist Bank. The regulations could reduce the fees that Truist receives, alter the way Truist provides its products and services, or expose Truist to greater risk of private litigation or regulatory enforcement action. 

Patriot Act 

The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to cooperate in the prevention, detection, and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting IDIs, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions&#8217; operations. The Patriot Act imposes substantial obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and processes to detect, prevent, and report money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputational damage, or restrictions on business. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution&#8217;s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

BSA/AML and Sanctions 

Truist continues to be subject to examinations and ongoing monitoring to assess compliance with BSA/AML laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the financial system by requiring financial institutions to develop and implement BSA/AML programs designed to detect, deter, and prevent the use of the financial system to facilitate the funding of illicit and criminal activities. In addition, Truist is also subject to prohibitions with respect to engaging in financial transactions with certain individuals, entities, and countries as prohibited by the OFAC regulator of the U.S. Treasury. 

Truist Financial Corporation 11 

Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal financial institution regulators, OFAC and law enforcement agencies with respect to AML laws and regulations. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against financial institutions and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cyber Security 

Various federal and state laws and regulations contain extensive data privacy and cybersecurity provisions, and the regulatory framework for data privacy and cybersecurity is rapidly evolving. The FRB, FDIC, and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. These guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its board of directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement, and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the FRB and the SEC, have increased their focus on cyber security through guidance, examinations, and regulations. 

At the federal level, the GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such personal information except as provided in the banking subsidiary&#8217;s policies and procedures. 

In addition, in November 2021, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC adopted a new regulation that, among other things, requires a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a &#8220;computer-security incident&#8221; that the banking organization believes in good faith could materially disrupt or degrade its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the U.S. 

States are also increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection such as the California Consumer Privacy Act. Truist has undertaken significant efforts to comply with these laws and continues to assess their requirements and applicability to Truist. These laws and proposed legislation are still subject to revision or formal guidance and may be interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with the Company&#8217;s understanding. California voters also recently passed the California Privacy Rights Act, which became effective on January 1, 2023, and significantly modifies the California Consumer Privacy Act, including by imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding California consumers&#8217; rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring Truist to incur additional costs to comply. Truist may be subject to similar laws in other states where Truist does business or in states where Truist may collect personal information of residents. 

In addition, the promulgation in 2017 of the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation, which was proposed to be updated in November 2022, and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law are driving significant cybersecurity compliance activities for Truist. Both of these regulations include phased compliance periods as well as attestation of compliance by Truist. 

Like other lenders, Truist Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates reporting information to credit bureaus, prescreening individuals for credit offers, sharing of information between affiliates, and using affiliate data for marketing purposes. Similar state laws may impose additional requirements on Truist Bank. Truist is also subject to rules and regulations issued by the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including with respect to data privacy and cybersecurity. Moreover, the U.S. Congress has recently considered, and is currently considering various proposals for more comprehensive data privacy and cybersecurity legislation, to which we may be subject if passed. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Truist Bank&#8217;s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: &#8220;Outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;Satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;Needs to Improve,&#8221; or &#8220;Substantial Noncompliance.&#8221; This assessment is considered for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an IDI, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a FHC also is assessed by the FRB in connection with reviewing any proposed acquisition or merger application. For its most recent CRA examination period, Truist received the highest possible overall rating of &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; from the FDIC. 

12 Truist Financial Corporation 

In June 2022, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a joint proposal to amend their regulations implementing the CRA. The proposed rules would materially revise the current CRA framework, including new assessment area requirements, new methods of calculating credit for lending, investment and service activities, and additional data collection and reporting requirements. The proposed rule included analysis indicating a significant increase in the thresholds for large banks to receive &#8220;Outstanding&#8221; ratings in the future. 

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 

There are federal consumer protection laws related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. The CFPB prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution&#8217;s overdraft services, including the associated fees and the consumer&#8217;s choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for &#8220;excessive or chronic&#8221; client use and undertake &#8220;meaningful and effective&#8221; follow-up action with clients that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts, and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. In 2022, Truist launched a new approach to the checking account experience, designed to address clients&#8217; direct feedback, which includes no overdraft fees. 

Volcker Rule 

Truist is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (i) engaging in proprietary trading activities, and (ii) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with covered private funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including Truist and its affiliates. The Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions or exclusions, including for market-making, hedging, underwriting, trading in U.S. government and agency obligations and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of funds. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of funds under certain conditions. The Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance obligations on banking entities. Truist has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in illiquid funds. 

Regulatory Regime for Swaps 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency, and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital adequacy, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers and security-based swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. Truist Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting Truist Bank to requirements under the CFTC&#8217;s regulatory regime, including trade reporting and recordkeeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. The NFA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s swap dealer. 

In November 2021, Truist Bank conditionally registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. As a result, Truist Bank&#8217;s security-based swaps business is now subject to requirements that are similar to the CFTC rules applicable to swap dealers, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, and clearing and exchange trading requirements. 

Truist Bank&#8217;s uncleared swaps and security-based swaps are subject to variation margin and initial margin requirements, which have been fully phased-in across the industry as of September 2022. 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 

Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC. FINRA is the primary self-regulatory organization for Truist&#8217;s registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Truist&#8217;s broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. The SEC and FINRA have active enforcement functions that oversee broker-dealers and investment advisers and can bring actions that result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations also can affect Truist&#8217;s ability to issue new securities expeditiously. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history, and supervisory concerns. 

Truist Financial Corporation 13 

FDIC Recordkeeping Requirements 

Truist is subject to certain enhanced deposit insurance recordkeeping requirements adopted by the FDIC. To facilitate prompt payment of FDIC-insured deposits when large IDIs fail, FDIC rules require IDIs with two million or more deposit accounts to maintain complete and accurate data on each depositor&#8217;s ownership interest by right and capacity and to develop the capability to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each deposit owner by ownership right and capacity. 

Tax Regulation 

On August 16, 2022, the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. The Company continues to analyze the impacts of the Inflation Reduction Act on its future results of operations but does not currently expect that the Inflation Reduction Act will have a material impact on its financial statements. 

Other Regulatory Matters 

Truist is subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NFA, various taxing authorities, and various state insurance and securities regulators. Truist periodically receives requests for information on business and accounting practices from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators, and other regulatory authorities. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Human Capital 

Truist works as One Team&#8212;unified by its purpose, mission, and values&#8212;to deliver real care by meeting clients&#8217; needs, uplifting communities, and empowering teammates. Truist recognizes that attracting the best talent, making investments in teammates, caring to better understand their backgrounds and experiences, and helping to bolster their career trajectory ultimately leads to more engaged and productive teammates, which can contribute to better business outcomes for Truist overall. Truist aims to provide teammates an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates to learn, grow, and have meaningful careers. 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees Truist&#8217;s compensation and benefit programs consistent with its compensation philosophy. The Committee provides oversight on Truist&#8217;s human capital strategy (including DEI, teammate engagement, and talent development) that supports attracting, developing, and retaining qualified teammates. 

Truist&#8217;s Enterprise Ethics Risk Office partners with a broad group of internal stakeholders to set standards for teammate conduct and facilitate the timely intake and routing of teammate concerns for review. As part of that effort, the team seeks to identify trends that may reflect on organizational culture and/or operational challenges and to develop solutions. The results of these efforts are regularly shared with Truist&#8217;s Executive-Level Ethics, Business Practices, and Conduct Committee and its Board of Directors. 

The following table presents a summary of teammates as of December 31, 2022: ##TABLE_START Table 3: Teammate Summary # of Teammates % of Population Full-Time 52,848 95.9 % Part-Time 2,278 4.1 Total 55,126 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Truist also leverages a skilled contingent workforce, which is not reflected in the table, as an important part of the Company&#8217;s overall workforce strategy. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

Truist remains committed to further building a culture where teammates feel a sense of belonging and can bring their authentic selves to work daily. DEI is instrumental to and embedded across our business. Truist has a dedicated DEI Office that oversees the company&#8217;s DEI strategy, objectives, and shared execution across the enterprise. The Truist DEI Office partners closely with various internal stakeholders to develop tools, resources, and programs to further support the commitments to attracting, developing, and advancing diverse talent across all levels, embedding DEI in Truist&#8217;s business strategies, and further investing in diverse communities. 

14 Truist Financial Corporation 

Teammate diversity continues to be a leading priority for Truist. Ethnic diversity within leadership populations has historically been underrepresented across financial services companies. The Company aspired to increase ethnically diverse representation among senior leadership positions to 15%; this was surpassed with ethnically diverse teammates holding 17.2% of senior leadership positions as of December 31, 2022. Truist remains committed to increasing all dimensions of diversity across our teammate population and all levels within the organization. 

The following table presents a summary of diversity statistics as of December 31, 2021 using the category classifications on the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission&#8217;s EEO-1 report, which differ from those recognized internally by Truist. Truist&#8217;s leadership diversity commitment was based on Truist&#8217;s internal senior leader category. The Truist senior leader category is made up of a broader population than the EEO-1 Executive/Senior-Level Manager category. ##TABLE_START Table 4: Teammate Diversity (1) Gender Race / Ethnicity Female Male Caucasian Black/African American Hispanic or Latino Asian American Indian/Alaska Native Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Two or More Races Executive Leadership &#38; senior leaders 28.6 % 71.4 % 80.9 % 7.3 % 4.5 % 5.5 % 0.5 % &#8212; % 1.3 % First / mid-level managers 52.3 47.7 74.0 12.1 7.0 4.7 0.3 0.2 1.7 Professionals 45.9 54.1 71.4 12.3 5.1 9.2 0.4 0.1 1.5 All others 77.3 22.7 54.1 24.5 13.8 4.0 0.8 0.4 2.4 All teammates 63.5 36.5 62.7 18.7 10.0 5.7 0.6 0.3 2.0 ##TABLE_END

(1) Source: EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2021. All others includes sales workers and administrative support EEO-1 job categories. 

Talent Development and Engagement 

Truist teammates have access to extensive programs and benefits for career advancement. Teammates can partner with a certified coach to help them identify and focus on potential career paths, create clear goals, and remain accountable in achieving those goals. For teammates who qualify, Truist also provides tuition assistance so teammates can continue formal education by seeking degrees that align with career goals and/or develop needed emerging skills through our Future Skills program. Truist offers career and job transparency through a comprehensive set of resources including career discovery and career planning online services. Truist is committed to achieving a career destination culture through career mobility and pipeline strategies and programs. 

In addition to career development opportunities, Truist provides a differentiated learning experience to new and existing teammates, including onboarding training to prepare new teammates through learning content libraries for individual development needs. Truist provides a wide range of forums for learning that include relevant current trends and emerging skills in the marketplace. 

Truist also has a Leadership Institute, a differentiator where Truist creates positive outcomes through developmental experiences, team optimization, executive coaching, and leadership development. Truist Leadership Institute leverages a personalized, collaborative approach that is rooted in the knowledge and application of psychology and neuroscience to human behavior in business. Truist strives to succeed in maximizing the potential in every individual and instilling values and behaviors that create a strong culture of leadership. 

Similar to learning and development, listening to teammates is one of the many ways Truist demonstrates its value of Caring. In addition to Employee Engagement and Pulse surveys, Truist takes a holistic approach to teammate listening by providing multiple, always-on channels to collect feedback and gain insight. These insights often help inform the attraction and retention strategies that enable Truist to remain an employer of choice. 

Compensation and Total Rewards 

Truist&#8217;s Compensation and Total Rewards enable its Purpose, Mission, and Values, specifically Truist&#8217;s mission to create an inclusive and energizing environment that empowers teammates. Truist places special emphasis on providing compensation and benefits that help foster an environment of economic security and social mobility for its teammates. 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s Total Rewards build better lives for teammates today and in the future 

&#8226; As teammates grow and develop meaningful careers, their compensation and long-term earning potential grows 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s Total Rewards promote the value of Caring 

&#8226; Truist&#8217;s pay for performance approach ensures that when clients win, teammates win 

As part of its comprehensive total rewards program, Truist increased its minimum U.S. hourly pay rate for eligible roles to $22 effective October 1, 2022. 

Truist Financial Corporation 15 

Truist&#8217;s benefits program for qualified teammates include a company-funded defined benefit pension plan, a 401(k) Plan, an employee stock purchase plan, Truist Momentum financial well-being education, healthcare and insurance benefits, Lifeforce lifestyle program, well-being and mental well-being support, paid time off, teammate and family resources such as child-care centers and family care resources, tuition assistance, and on-site services such as health centers and fitness centers. A detailed overview on all of the benefits Truist offers can be found on Truist&#8217;s Benefits website, Benefits.Truist.com . 

Truist provides market competitive total rewards to attract and retain talent while enabling Truist&#8217;s short- and long-term performance. Truist provides compensation and rewards that aim to achieve positive business results, are based on market and internal assessment, and are aligned with risk management principles. Truist conducts annual studies, factoring teammates&#8217; roles, levels of experience, and geography. Based on Truist&#8217;s 2022 pay equity study, the average salary of female teammates is 98% of male teammates, and the average salary of racially diverse teammates is 100% of non-racially diverse teammates. 

Website Access to Truist&#8217;s Filings with the SEC 

Truist&#8217;s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost on the Company&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after Truist files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Truist&#8217;s SEC filings are also available through the SEC&#8217;s website at sec.gov . 

Corporate Governance 

Information with respect to Truist&#8217;s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on Truist&#8217;s Investor Relations website, IR.Truist.com . Specifically, the Company makes available on its Investor Relations website, under the heading &#8220;Governance &#38; Responsibility&#8221; (i) its code of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and teammates, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of the Company&#8217;s Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of its code of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the &#8220;Governance &#38; Responsibility&#8221; section of its Investor Relations website. 

16 Truist Financial Corporation 

Executive Officers ##TABLE_START Executive Officer Recent Work Experience Years of Service Age William H. Rogers, Jr. 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Chairman since March 2022. Chief Executive Officer since September 2021. President and Chief Operating Officer from December 2019 to September 2021. Previously SunTrust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from January 2012 to December 2019. 

42* 65 

Michael B. Maguire 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Chief Financial Officer since September 2022. Chief National Consumer Finance Services and Payments Officer from September 2021 to September 2022. Head of National Consumer Finance and Payments from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Enterprise Partnerships and Investments Executive. 20* 44 Scott Case 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer 

Chief Information Officer since December 2019. Previously SunTrust Chief Information Officer since February 2018. Chief Information Officer at Ciox Health from 2017 to 2018. 

7* 52 Denise M. DeMaio 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Audit Officer 

Chief Audit Officer since February 2022. Managing Director and Chief Audit Executive, The Americas, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. from July 2016 to February 2022. 

1 59 Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III 

Vice Chair 

Vice Chair since September 2021. Head of the Corporate and Institutional Group from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Co-Chief Operating Officer and Wholesale Segment Executive since February 2018. SunTrust Corporate Executive Vice President and Wholesale Segment Executive from 2017 to February 2018. 

17* 60 Ellen M. Fitzsimmons 

Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Head of Public Affairs 

Chief Legal Officer and Head of Public Affairs since September 2021. Chief Legal Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2018. 

5* 62 Kimberly Moore-Wright, 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Teammate Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity 

Chief Teammate Officer and Head of Enterprise Diversity since September 2021. Chief Human Resources Officer from December 2019 to August 2021. Director of Marketing and Digital Sales from January 2016 to November 2019. 

27 49 Clarke R. Starnes III 

Vice Chair and Chief Risk Officer 

Vice Chair since September 2022. Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. 

40 63 Joseph M. Thompson 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Wealth Officer 

Chief Wealth Officer since September 2021. Head of Truist Wealth from December 2019 to August 2021. Previously SunTrust Head of Private Wealth Management from August 2014 to December 2019. 

29* 56 David H. Weaver 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Community Banking Officer 

Chief Commercial Community Banking Officer since September 2021. Head of Commercial Community Banking from December 2019 to August 2021. President, Community Banking from December 2016 to December 2019. 

27 56 Dont&#225; L. Wilson 

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Retail &#38; Small Business Banking Officer 

Chief Retail &#38; Small Business Banking Officer since March 2022. Chief Digital and Client Experience Officer from November 2018 to March 2022. Chief Client Experience Officer from August 2016 to November 2018. 

24 46 ##TABLE_END

* Reflects combined years of service at Truist and SunTrust. 

Truist Financial Corporation 17 

