                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Satisfying Profit Reports Kick Off a Rise on Wall Street .......................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          SatisfyingProfitReportsKickOffaRiseonWallStreet                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          Satisfying Profit Reports Kick Off a Rise on Wall Street                
          By The Associated Press                                                 
          658 words                                                               
          17 October 2024                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          U.S. stocks rose Wednesday after better-than-expected profit reports from Morgan Stanley, United Airlines
          and other big companies.                                                
          The S&P 500 gained 0.5 percent to recover much of the slide from its high the day before because of
          tumbling energy and technology stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 337 points, or 0.8 percent,
          to set its own record, and the Nasdaq composite added 0.3 percent.      
          Morgan Stanley rallied 6.4 percent after reporting stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected.
          The chief executive, Ted Pick, said the investment bank enjoyed a ''constructive environment'' in its
          businesses around the world. And with stock prices near records, it is managing even more money for clients.
          United Airlines flew 12.4 percent higher after reporting a milder drop in summer profit than expected and
          announcing plans to send up to $1.5 billion to its shareholders by buying back its stock. J.B. Hunt Transport
          Services motored up by 3.1 percent after the freight company delivered better-than-expected results.
          They helped offset a 2.5 percent drop for Citizens Financial Group, which reported weaker results for the
          latest quarter than analysts expected.                                  
          Energy stocks were holding steadier, including a 0.3 percent tick higher for Exxon Mobil, a day after sliding to
          some of the market's worst losses.                                      
                                                                                  
          They've been generally following the price of oil, which has fallen back as worries recede that Israel will attack
          Iranian oil facilities as part of its retaliation for Iran's missile attack this month. Iran is a major producer of
          crude, and a strike could upend its exports to China and elsewhere. Concerns about the strength of demand
          because of China's flagging economic growth have also hit oil prices.   
          U.S. technology stocks were also holding up better a day after a market-shaking warning from ASML, a
          Dutch supplier to the chip industry.                                    
          ASML's chief executive, Christophe Fouquet, said on Tuesday that artificial intelligence continues to offer
          strong upside potential, but ''other market segments are taking longer to recover.'' That helped lead to slides
          of 3.5 percent for Broadcom and 4.7 percent for Nvidia on Tuesday. A day afterward, both rose, and Nvidia's
          gain of 3.1 percent was the strongest single force pushing upward on the S&P 500.
          Still, Wednesday offered the first chance for Asian stock markets to feel the ripples of ASML's warning, and
          chip companies there tumbled.                                           
                                                                                  
          Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 1.8 percent as the chip maker Tokyo Electron sank 9.2 percent and Lasertec Corp.,
          which makes equipment to inspect chips, lost 13.4 percent.              
          Stock indexes were mixed across the rest of Asia and Europe. In London, the FTSE 100 rose 1 percent after
          the government reported U.K. inflation eased in September to its lowest level in more than three years. That
          reinforced expectations that the Bank of England will cut interest rates at its next meeting.
          In the United States, the Federal Reserve has also already begun cutting interest rates after years of keeping
          them high in hopes of slowing the economy enough to stifle high inflation.
          With inflation finally seeming to be heading toward the Fed's 2 percent target, the central bank is widening its
          focus to include keeping the economy humming. Recent reports showing the U.S. economy remains stronger
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          than expected have raised optimism that the Fed can pull off a perfect landing where it gets inflation down
          without causing a recession.                                            
          Such optimism, along with hopes for increased stimulus for China's flagging economy, caused the biggest
          jump in global growth expectations since May 2020 in a survey of global fund managers by Bank of America.
          The survey also showed the biggest jump in investor optimism since June 2020.
          Document NYTF000020241017ekah00050                                      
                                                                                  
          