                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          On Wall Street, a Rosy Vision of Trump 2.0............................................................................................................. 2
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: Warner Bros. Gains, JPMorgan, Banks Soar ...........
          4                                                                       
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: JPMorgan Boosts Banks, Tesla Loses Traction.......
          6                                                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          OnWallStreet,aRosyVisionofTrump2.0                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          On Wall Street, a Rosy Vision of Trump 2.0                              
          By Rob Copeland                                                         
          1,336 words                                                             
          13 December 2024                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          1                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          The financial world sees plenty of opportunity in the return of President-elect Donald J. Trump. For now, Wall
          Streeters are looking past the risks.                                   
          The day after the presidential election, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, picked up his phone
          for a call he had hoped not to make.                                    
          Mr. Dimon, who had privately supported Vice President Kamala Harris and boasted to associates he hadn't
          spoken to Donald J. Trump in years, was now in the position of calling the president-elect with
          congratulations and an offer to help in any way. Mr. Trump didn't pick up, forcing Mr. Dimon to leave a
          message on his voice mail, according to two people with knowledge of the call.
          The snub -- and a subsequent missive from Mr. Trump on social media that Mr. Dimon would ''not be invited''
          to be a part of his administration -- did not dampen the banker's enthusiasm. Mr. Dimon said a few days later
          that his industry was ''dancing in the street'' over Mr. Trump's win and incoming Republican majorities in the
          House of Representatives and Senate.                                    
          These days, it seems that everyone who is anybody on Wall Street -- to say nothing of a whole lot of
          nobodies -- is amped up for Mr. Trump's return to the Oval Office. In interviews, bankers, lawyers, investors
          and corporate executives with a wide range of political views said that despite mixed opinions on Mr. Trump's
          proposed policies overall, they see in his administration the greatest possibility for a boon to the business
          world in a generation or more.                                          
          In part, they've been won over by the president-elect's picks of a fairly run-of-the-mill collection of Republican
          stalwarts for economic and financial regulatory roles. They expect this Wall Street-heavy crowd, such as Paul
          Atkins, a longtime lawyer for investment firms who is Mr. Trump's pick for Securities and Exchange chairman,
          and Howard Lutnick, a billionaire investment banker as the commerce secretary designate, to focus on rote
          conservative causes like lighter financial regulation and lower taxes (or at least a continuation of tax cuts set
          to expire).                                                             
          Notably, the rosy outlook sidesteps some of the nonconformist economic ideas -- namely tariffs on all imports
          to the United States -- that Mr. Trump has pledged. It also takes as a given that the president-elect will
          continue to save his most provocative political picks for bureaucracies such as the F.B.I. that financiers see
          as unrelated to their world.                                            
          For now, those risks are taking second place to cold, hard opportunity. One prominent investment banker
          asking for anonymity because he's not authorized to speak publicly on the matter, pointed out that amid Mr.
          Trump's posturing, there is profit to be made: His bank was seeing an uptick in interest from corporate clients
          looking to purchase expensive, complicated financial instruments that reduce the risk from changes in the
          price of currencies.                                                    
          The client receives financial stability, while the investment bank generates fees.
          With Trump 2.0, there does seem to be something for everyone in the financial arena: For bankers like Mr.
          Dimon, high on the wish list is the loosening of looming capital requirements, known as the ''Basel III
          endgame,'' that they say would reduce the amount of money they have available to lend, and ultimately profit.
          International regulators have argued the proposed rules are needed to prevent another financial crisis.
          Chief executives with big pay packages contingent on rising stock prices are heartened that Mr. Trump, as he
          did in his first administration, is again agitating for lower interest rates, which generally propel financial
          markets higher by incentivizing risk-taking.                            
          Page 2 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Interest rates are set by the Federal Reserve, not the president directly, and they're already on the way down.
          Still, Mr. Trump has shown no compunction about publicly insisting that the central bank keep rates low,
          despite a tradition that presidents generally steer clear of direct pressure on the Fed.
          Lower rates would also be a boon for mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings and other cogs in the
          Wall Street moneymaking machine, which were jammed up during the past four years in the aftermath of the
          pandemic and under a Biden administration that had attempted to clamp down on big companies trying to get
          bigger. When Mr. Trump appointed a former technology lobbyist, Gail Slater, to lead the Justice
          Department's antitrust division, he said he expected her to ''facilitate, rather than stifle,'' the corporate world,
          language that would not have been out of place in the Reagan deregulation movement.
          And perhaps no one is more elated than cryptocurrency investors and venture capitalists, who embraced the
          once-Bitcoin-skeptic president-elect and are hoping to be permitted to register and market new coins to
          ordinary investors. The price of Bitcoin, a proxy for the hopes of the industry at large, recently touched
          $100,000 and has shot up nearly 40 percent since the election. The S&P 500 is up 6 percent since then.
          As ever with Mr. Trump, whose decision making can be tough to predict, handicapping the chance of a
          long-term financial windfall from his time in office can be similar to reading a Rorschach test in which the
          same image can seem different depending on the viewer.                  
          It's easy enough to craft an argument for why financial optimism may be misplaced: Mr. Trump has talked up
          spending plans that would balloon the national debt and the imposition of tariffs and a renewal of tax cuts that
          could exacerbate inflation. A tightening of the labor market caused by mass deportations of immigrants could
          also cause a spike in wages as companies are forced to compete aggressively for workers.
          And heady times for Wall Street are often followed by economic troubles. The financial services industry has
          traditionally thrived right up to the brink of collapse, such as ahead of the bursting of the internet bubble in
          2000 and the mortgage market in 2007.                                   
          Few expect such calamity in the short-term, but Wall Street's track record on economic projections is
          famously spotty, and executives like Mr. Dimon have said they are girding for all possibilities. Last week,
          Bank of America's chief executive, Brian Moynihan, expressed skepticism that Mr. Trump's so-called
          Department of Government Efficiency, to be co-led by Elon Musk, with an aim of slashing federal spending,
          would make much of a dent in anything.                                  
          Analysts at the bank Standard Chartered similarly this month flagged ''unusual uncertainty on the potential
          policies of the incoming U.S. administration, and on their timing and their impact.''
          There was also widespread exasperation among the finance set late last month when Mr. Trump threatened
          to impose a 25 percent tariff on goods from Mexico and Canada. Wall Street hates uncertainty and a bubbling
          trade war between two of America's largest trading partners would bring that in droves.
          And yet not long after that threat, many financiers reached deep for a reason to focus on the positive by
          passing between one another a letter from January to investors from Mr. Trump's Treasury secretary pick,
          Scott Bessent, that described tariffs as less important than they may seem because they would be ''on the
          table but rarely discharged.''                                          
          A spokeswoman for the Trump transition did not respond to a request for comment.
                                                                                  
          To Trump 2.0 converts like Ken Griffin, the billionaire founder of the hedge fund Citadel who didn't donate to
          the president-elect's campaign, the tariff talk may well just be a starting point, rather than a serious pledge.
          The president-elect ''comes from a field -- real estate -- where the norms of negotiation are often different,''
          Mr. Griffin said last week at the DealBook Summit in New York. Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, sounded a
          similarly conciliatory optimistic tone toward Mr. Trump's administration at the event.
          Document NYTF000020241213ekcd00031                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin6Stocks:WarnerBros.Gains,JPMorgan,BanksSoar
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: Warner Bros. Gains, JPMorgan, Banks
          Soar                                                                    
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          528 words                                                               
          9 November 2024                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMORGAN CHASE                                                          
          JPM +12%                                                                
          Donald Trump's election victory powered a broad market rally Wednesday. Big winners included banks, which
          rose on hopes for reduced regulation and higher interest income. JPMorgan Chase shares climbed 12% to a
          record high. Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs both rose 13%. The prospect of lighter regulation and
          protective tariffs drove gains in industrial stocks, including equipment makers and domestic steelmakers.
          Bitcoin prices and crypto-linked stocks also rallied. Sectors expected to benefit from Democratic policies
          declined sharply, including clean-energy and electric-car companies. Bucking the trend was Tesla, the EV
          maker helmed by Trump ally and donor Elon Musk. Its shares rose 15%.    
          PALANTIR TECHNOLOGIES                                                   
          PLTR +23%                                                               
                                                                                  
          The software company reported strong sales and raised its revenue guidance, buoying investor confidence in
          the company's growth. Palantir sells data-analytics software to governments and businesses worldwide. Its
          technology has been used in the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East to assist with battlefield logistics and
          military decision-making. The company also notched some larger contracts with the U.S. Defense
          Department this year. Palantir Technologies shares climbed 23% Tuesday. 
          LYFT                                                                    
          LYFT +23%                                                               
          The ride-hailing company raised its outlook after reporting double-digit percentage gains in ridership and
          revenue. Lyft said gross bookings rose 16% to $4.12 billion as the app's number of active users rose to a
          record 24.4 million. For the full year, the company expects gross bookings growth of 17%. During the quarter,
          Lyft also signed a strategic partnership with food-delivery app DoorDash that offers exclusive benefits to
          riders that link their DashPass accounts. Lyft shares soared 23% Thursday.
          WARNER BROS. DISCOVERY                                                  
                                                                                  
          WBD +12%                                                                
          The entertainment conglomerate posted a surprise profit of $135 million, thanks to better-than-expected
          growth in streaming subscribers. Warner Bros. added 7.2 million direct-to-consumer subscribers globally in
          the third quarter, its largest growth since the Max streaming service launched. The company said lower
          box-office revenue from "Beetlejuice Beetlejuice" and "Twisters" didn't match the strong performance by
          "Barbie" a year earlier. Warner Bros. shares soared 12% Thursday.       
          SONY                                                                    
                                                                                  
          SONY +9%                                                                
          The Japanese entertainment and electronics company said net profit climbed 69% from a year earlier and
          raised its annual revenue forecast. During the week, Sony also rolled out its updated PlayStation 5 console in
          time for the holiday shopping season. The PS5 Pro offers faster rendering, enhanced details and other
          upgrades. Earlier in the week, rival Nintendo cut its annual forecasts for Switch sales and revenue after
          disappointing first-half results. American depositary shares of Sony jumped 9% Friday.
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          HERSHEY                                                                 
          HSY -2.2%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Hershey's latest quarter wasn't so sweet, as high cocoa prices ate into its sales. The chocolate maker
          lowered its annual guidance and missed revenue and profit expectations. Record-high cocoa prices remain a
          challenge for Hershey and candy-making rivals like Mondelez International. Cocoa-based candies have
          become more expensive in 2024, with global inflation and adverse weather for growing the key ingredient.
          Hershey shares lost 2.2% Thursday.                                      
          Document J000000020241109ekb900021                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin6Stocks:JPMorganBoostsBanks,TeslaLosesTraction
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: JPMorgan Boosts Banks, Tesla Loses
          Traction                                                                
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          541 words                                                               
          12 October 2024                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          JPMORGAN CHASE                                                          
          JPM +4.4%                                                               
          America's top banks kicked off earnings season with reassuring news. Both JPMorgan Chase and Wells
          Fargo on Friday posted quarterly profits that fell from a year earlier, but by less than what analysts expected.
          JPMorgan said profit decreased 2% to $12.9 billion, bolstered by lending profits and weighed down by
          increased losses in credit-card loans. At Wells Fargo, profit dropped 11% to $5.11 billion, dragged down by
          higher funding costs for customer deposits. JPMorgan said the economy remains strong for consumers and
          big companies, a sign that the Federal Reserve may have achieved a soft landing. JPMorgan shares rose
          4.4% Friday.                                                            
          Delta Air Lines                                                         
          DAL -1.4%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Delta reported earnings that came in below analysts' estimates in the latest quarter, in part because of a $380
          million hit to sales resulting from flights canceled during the global CrowdStrike IT outage. Expenses related
          to reimbursements and grounded crews totaled $120 million, even after accounting for the fuel savings of
          flying less. All in all, it led to its earnings per share coming in 26% lower than during the same period of last
          year. Delta shares lost 1.4% Thursday.                                  
          TESLA                                                                   
          TSLA -8.8%                                                              
          Tesla's driverless robotaxi made a flashy debut -- but investors weren't impressed. Chief Executive Elon
          Musk on Thursday unveiled the new autonomous Cybercab, with no steering wheel or pedals. He also
          announced the Robovan, designed to shuttle up to 20 people at a time. Musk said Tesla plans to start
          Cybercab production before 2027. He also left questions unanswered, including business model specifics.
          The unveiling got a chilly reception from investors. Tesla shares fell 8.8% Friday.
          PFIZER                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PFE +2.2%                                                               
          An activist investor is taking aim at Pfizer. Starboard Value has taken a roughly $1 billion stake in the
          drugmaker and wants the struggling company to make changes to turn its performance around, The Wall
          Street Journal reported. The company overestimated future demand for Covid-related products after the
          pandemic subsided, and its other offerings haven't been able to fill the gap. In addition, the company's first
          attempt at a weight-loss pill disappointed. Pfizer shares climbed 2.2% Monday.
          SUPER MICRO COMPUTER                                                    
                                                                                  
          SMCI +16%                                                               
          Super Micro Computer announced positive shipment data Monday, saying that it recently deployed more than
          100,000 graphics processing units with liquid-cooling solution to large AI factories. The stock, which recently
          split 10-for-1, was hit last month after The Wall Street Journal reported that the Justice Department is probing
          the company following a critical report by an activist short-selling firm. In August, an annual filing delay also
          prompted a selloff. Super Micro shares surged 16% Monday.               
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ALPHABET                                                                
          GOOG -1.6%                                                              
                                                                                  
          The Justice Department submitted a filing Tuesday that presented a federal court with options to remedy
          what a judge said was Google's unlawful monopoly in search. The remedies range from conduct restrictions
          to a breakup. Google responded that the initial proposal is "radical and sweeping" and could have "negative
          unintended consequences for American innovation and America's consumers." Parent company Alphabet
          shares slipped 1.6% Wednesday.                                          
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 7 of 9 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020241012ekac00015                                      
                                                                                  
          