 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction therewith 

Changes in the federal, state, or local tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance. On March 31, 2021, President Biden unveiled his infrastructure plan, which includes a proposal to increase the federal corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% as part of a package of tax reforms to help fund the spending proposals in the plan. If adopted as proposed, the increase of the corporate tax rate would adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. Congress is expected to debate the adoption of an infrastructure initiative in the coming weeks and months; however, the prospects and timing for the enactment of any such legislation, as well as its specific provisions, including funding options, and the extent of its potential impact on our results of operations if enacted, cannot be predicted at this time. 

Cyberattacks, including those targeting critical infrastructure sectors, have become more frequent and sophisticated. Critical infrastructure sectors, including financial services, increasingly have been the targets of cyberattacks, including attacks emanating from foreign countries such as the attack on the information technology company SolarWinds, which affected many Fortune 500 companies as well as U.S. government agencies. Attacks involving large financial institutions, including denial of service attacks designed to disrupt external customer-facing services, nation state cyberattacks and ransomware attacks designed to deny organizations access to key internal resources or systems, and targeted social engineering and email attacks designed to allow unauthorized persons to obtain access to an institution&#8217;s information systems and data or that of its customers are becoming more common and increasingly sophisticated and can be difficult to prevent. Reports of ransomware incidents specifically have increased by approximately 300% since the start of 2020 and information technology software supply chain attacks, including those involving financial institutions, also have increased during this period, some of which have resulted in temporary, but impactful, disruptions to the functioning of critical infrastructure sectors or the operations of specific institutions. In addition, cybersecurity risks for financial institutions have evolved as a result of the use of new technologies, devices and delivery channels to transmit data and conduct financial transactions, while the ongoing and widespread remote work environment necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic has subjected institutions to additional cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. 

Any successful cyberattack or other security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information or that compromises our ability to function could severely damage our reputation, erode confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Any successful cyberattack may also subject the Corporation to regulatory investigations, litigation or enforcement, or require the payment of regulatory fines or penalties or undertaking of costly remediation efforts with respect to third parties affected by a cybersecurity incident, all or any of which could adversely affect the Corporation&#8217;s business, financial condition or results of operations and damage its reputation. 

Recent actions by the Biden Administration regarding competition in the financial services and technology sectors may adversely impact our business. On July 9, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy (the &#8220;Executive Order&#8221;). Among other initiatives, the Executive Order (i) encourages the federal banking agencies to review their current merger oversight practices under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Bank Merger Act and, within 180 days of the date of the Executive Order, adopt a plan for revitalization of such practices; and (ii) directs the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;) to commence or continue a rulemaking to facilitate the portability of consumer financial transaction data for the purpose of providing consumers with greater flexibility in switching financial institutions and using innovative financial products. 

Although the scope and substance of any action by the federal banking agencies in response to the directives set forth in the Executive Order cannot be predicted at this time, the potential for increased regulatory scrutiny of bank mergers and acquisitions may adversely affect the marketplace for such transactions in the near- to medium-term and could result in our acquisitions in future periods being delayed, impeded or restricted in certain respects due to enhanced regulatory review processes. Similarly, although the CFPB has published principles for consumer-authorized financial data sharing and aggregation, we cannot predict the scope, substance or timing of any future CFPB rulemaking regarding the portability of financial transaction data in response to the Executive Order. The impact of any such rulemaking on the conduct of our customers also cannot be predicted. However, the adoption of any such rule could result in increased volatility of consumer accounts and expose the Corporation to additional operational, strategic, regulatory and compliance risks. 

We are subject to environmental, social and governance risks that could adversely affect our reputation and the market price of our securities. The Corporation is subject to a variety of risks arising from environmental, social and governance matters or &#8220;ESG&#8221; matters. ESG matters include climate risk, hiring practices, the diversity of our work force, and racial and social justice issues involving our personnel, customers and third parties with whom we otherwise do business. Risks arising from ESG matters may adversely affect, among other things, our reputation and the market price of our securities. 

We may be exposed to negative publicity based on the identity and activities of those to whom we lend and with which we otherwise do business and the public&#8217;s view of the approach and performance of our customers and business partners with respect to ESG matters, as well as the public&#8217;s perception of our own performance and record. Any such negative publicity could arise from adverse news coverage in traditional media and could also spread through the use of social media platforms. The Corporation&#8217;s relationships and reputation with its existing and prospective customers and third parties with which we do business could be damaged if we were to become the subject of any such negative publicity. This, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain customers and employees and could have a negative impact on the market price for securities. 

Further, investors have begun to consider the steps taken and resources allocated by financial institutions and other commercial organizations to address ESG matters when making investment and operational decisions. Certain investors are beginning to incorporate the business risks of climate change and the adequacy of companies&#8217; responses to the risks posed by climate change and other ESG matters into their investment theses. These shifts in investing priorities may result in adverse effects on the market price of our securities to the extent that investors determine that the Corporation has not made sufficient progress on ESG matters. 

The leadership of each of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Treasury Department have indicated increased expectations of larger financial institutions to measure, monitor and manage climate related risk as part of their enterprise risk management processes. To the extent these expectations develop into new regulations or supervisory guidance, we would expect to experience increased compliance costs and other compliance-related risks. 

