 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Forward-Looking Statements 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Certain matters discussed throughout this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make or approve certain statements in future filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), in press releases, or oral or written presentations by representatives of HSBC USA Inc. ("HSBC USA" and, together with its subsidiaries, "HUSI") that are not statements of historical fact and may also constitute forward-looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "appears," "believe," "intends," "expects," "estimates," "targeted," "plans," "anticipates," "goal," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but should not be considered as the only means through which these statements may be made. All discussions related to strategy, including the matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview" and discussions of those matters elsewhere in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. These matters or statements will relate to our future structure, operations, strategy, financial condition, economic forecast, results of operations, plans, objectives, performance or business developments and will involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from that which was expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 

All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: 

&#8226; the impact of the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic, including the emergence of new variants; 

&#8226; our ability to effectively implement and deliver on our business strategies, and the effect implementation of our business strategy may have on our financial results, operations and relationships with our customers, regulators, employees and other stakeholders; 

&#8226; uncertainty concerning the future market and economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including but not limited to, changes in interest rates, energy prices and unemployment levels, a decline in housing prices, the availability of credit and liquidity, changes in consumer confidence and consumer spending and behavior, consumer perception as to the continuing availability of credit and price competition in the market segments we serve and the consequences of unexpected geopolitical events, such as trade disputes; 

&#8226; compliance with the Chinese National Security Law and the Hong Kong Autonomy Act, which may impact, among other things, individuals or entities with which we are able to conduct business; 

&#8226; changes in laws and regulatory requirements; 

&#8226; the potential impact of any legal, regulatory or policy changes affecting financial institutions and the global economy as a result of the new administration; 

&#8226; the ability to deliver on our regulatory priorities; 

&#8226; capital and liquidity requirements under Basel guidance, the Federal Reserve Board's ("FRB") Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") program, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ("Dodd-Frank Act" or "Dodd-Frank") stress testing ("DFAST"), including the U.S. FRB requirements for U.S. global systemically important banks ("G-SIBs") and U.S. intermediate holding companies ("IHCs") owned by non-U.S. G-SIBs to issue total loss-absorbing capacity ("TLAC") instruments; 

&#8226; regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the future orderly resolution of large financial institutions; 

&#8226; changes in central banks' policies with respect to the provision or removal of liquidity support to financial markets; 

&#8226; the ability of HSBC Holdings plc ("HSBC" and, together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Group") and HSBC Bank USA, National Association (together with its subsidiaries, "HSBC Bank USA") to fulfill the requirements imposed by applicable consent orders or guidance from regulators generally; 

&#8226; the use of us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge by third parties; 

&#8226; the ability to successfully manage our risks; 

&#8226; the possibility of the inadequacy of our data management and policies and processes; 

&#8226; the financial condition of our clients and counterparties and our ability to manage counterparty risk; 

&#8226; concentrations of credit and market risk; 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; increases in our allowance for credit losses and changes in our assessment of our loan portfolios; 

&#8226; the ability to successfully implement changes to our operational practices as needed and/or required from time to time; 

&#8226; damage to our reputation; 

&#8226; the ability to attract or retain key employees, including foreign workers, and customers; 

&#8226; the effects of competition in the markets where we operate including increased competition from non-bank financial services companies, including securities firms; 

&#8226; the effects of operational risks that are inherent in banking operations, including fraudulent and other criminal activities, breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems failure or non-availability; 

&#8226; disruption in our operations from the external environment arising from events such as natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious disease, acts of war, terrorist attacks, or essential utility outages; 

&#8226; risks associated with Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") matters such as climate change and human rights violations; 

&#8226; a failure in or a breach of our operation or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third party servicers or vendors, including as a result of cyberattacks; 

&#8226; the ability of third party suppliers, outsourcing vendors, off-shored functions and our affiliates to provide adequate services; 

&#8226; losses suffered due to the negligence, fraud or misconduct of our employees or the negligence, fraud or misconduct on the part of third parties; 

&#8226; a failure in our internal controls; 

&#8226; our ability to meet our funding requirements; 

&#8226; adverse changes to our credit ratings; 

&#8226; financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage bond insurers; 

&#8226; changes in Financial Accounting Standards Board and International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") accounting standards and their interpretation; 

&#8226; heightened regulatory and government enforcement scrutiny of financial institutions, including in connection with product governance and sales practices, account opening and closing procedures, customer and employee complaints and sales compensation structures related to such practices; 

&#8226; possible negative impact of regulatory investigations and legal proceedings related to alleged foreign exchange manipulation; 

&#8226; changes in the methodology for determining benchmark rates and the implementation of alternative benchmark rates, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"); 

&#8226; heightened regulatory and government enforcement scrutiny of financial markets, with a particular focus on traded asset classes, including foreign exchange; 

&#8226; the possibility of incorrect assumptions or estimates in our financial statements, including reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities; 

&#8226; model limitations or failure; 

&#8226; the possibility of incorrect interpretations, application of or changes in tax laws to which we and our clients are subject; 

&#8226; unexpected and/or increased expenses relating to, among other things, litigation and regulatory matters, remediation efforts, penalties and fines; and 

&#8226; the other risk factors and uncertainties described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent circumstances or events. For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Executive Overview 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

HSBC USA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. ("HSBC North America"), which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC. HUSI may also be referred to in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&#38;A") as "we," "us" or "our." 

2021 Economic Environment &#160; The U.S. economy continued its recovery during 2021 despite concerns over rising inflation and a surge in COVID-19 cases in the second half of the year driven first by the Delta variant and most recently by the emergence of the Omicron variant. As previously discussed, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in disruption to business and economic activity as well as to the capital markets. COVID-19's effects in the U.S. and globally have been extreme, and the duration of the pandemic and its ultimate repercussions continue to remain unclear. Unprecedented government economic intervention, including additional government support enacted during the first quarter of 2021, has likely dampened the pandemic's effects, but at uncertain long-term cost. However, these government support measures combined with progress on vaccinations along with the easing and removal of many restrictions by states, have helped speed the economic recovery along considerably. These actions as well as several other factors, including supply chain breakdowns and labor shortages, have contributed to higher inflation, which rose above the FRB's target inflation rate in 2021. U.S. Gross Domestic Product ("GDP") grew at an estimated annual rate of 5.7 percent in 2021, while the U.S. economy added over 1.7 million jobs during 2021 and the total unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent at December 2021 as compared with 6.7 percent at December 2020. In December 2021, the FRB decided to hold short-term interest rates steady (at near zero) while announcing it will accelerate the reduction of its monthly bond buying program, which will bring the program to an end in early 2022. It is expected the FRB will start increasing short-term interest rates in 2022 after the completion of its bond buying program. 

Although the U.S. economy continued to improve during 2021, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence of new variants, and higher inflation on economic conditions both in the United States and abroad continues to create global uncertainty about the future economic environment, including the pace and extent of the economic recovery. The circumstances around this pandemic will continue to impact our business in future periods, the extent of which will depend on the outcome of certain developments, including but not limited to, the duration of the pandemic as well as its continuing impact on our customers, vendors and employees, all of which are uncertain. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," for further discussion. Concerns over interest rate levels, energy prices, domestic and global policy issues, trade policy in the U.S. and geopolitical events as well as the implications of those events on the markets in general further add to the global uncertainty. Interest rate levels and energy prices, in combination with global economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policy and the level of regulatory and government scrutiny of financial institutions will continue to impact our results in 2022 and beyond. 

2021 Events 

&#8226; We previously announced a strategic plan to restructure our operations ("Restructuring Plan") in alignment with HSBC&#8217;s global strategy to refocus our wholesale operations to better serve our international corporate clients and restructure our retail operations to better meet the needs of globally mobile and affluent clients. We continued to progress our Restructuring Plan in 2021, including completing the consolidation of our wholesale middle and back office functions as well as the transfer of substantially all interest rate derivative contracts associated with Fixed Income activities to HSBC Bank plc. In addition, as discussed further below, during the second quarter of 2021, we made the decision to exit our mass market retail banking business, including the sale or closure of certain branches, and transferred certain assets and liabilities to held for sale. As a result of these actions, to date we have closed 95 branches, lowered staffing levels by approximately 27 percent and reduced risk-weighted assets by approximately 17 percent since December 31, 2019, and have reduced total operating expenses by approximately 15 percent since 2019. We remain committed to our multi-year strategic plan to re-profile our business. 

We currently expect to incur pre-tax charges in connection with this Restructuring Plan over the three-year period of 2020-2022 of approximately $780-$860 million ($590-$650 million after-tax). To date, we have recorded a total of $569 million of pre-tax charges in connection with our Restructuring Plan, of which $289 million and $280 million were recorded during 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 3, "Strategic Initiatives," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of these costs. 

&#8226; In May 2021, we announced that we would take further actions to strategically reposition our Wealth and Personal Banking business to focus on the banking and wealth management needs of globally-connected affluent and high net worth clients through our Premier, Jade and Private Banking propositions. We will exit our mass market retail banking business, including our Personal and Advance propositions as well as retail business banking, and will rebrand approximately 20-25 of our retail branches into international wealth centers to serve our Premier and Jade customers. In conjunction with the execution of this strategy, we have entered into definitive sale agreements with third parties to sell 90 of our retail branches along with substantially all residential mortgage, unsecured and retail business banking loans and all deposits in our branch network not associated with our Premier, Jade and Private Banking customers. Certain assets under management associated with our mass market retail banking business which are managed by an 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

affiliate will also be transferred to one of the buyers. The remaining branches not sold or rebranded will be closed. As a result of entering into these sale agreements, assets and liabilities with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $2.9 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively, were transferred to held for sale during the second quarter of 2021. We completed the sale of the disposal group in February 2022 which is expected to result in a gain on sale. 

In addition, mass market retail banking loans not included in the transaction described above as well as our remaining retail credit card portfolio, which collectively totaled $1.1 billion, were also transferred to held for sale as we did not intend to hold these loans for the foreseeable future. See Note 4, "Branch Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we sold a portfolio of mass market retail credit cards to a third party with a carrying value of $382 million at the time of sale and recognized a gain on sale of approximately $9 million, net of transaction costs. See Note 9, "Loans Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details. Upon completion of the sale, a portfolio of Premier credit cards with a carrying value of $204 million was transferred back to held for investment during the fourth quarter of 2021 as we now intend to hold these loans for the foreseeable future. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, consistent with our Restructuring Plan, we identified additional consumer loans that we no longer have the intent to hold for investment, consisting primarily of certain non-performing mortgage loans and government-backed mortgage loans as well as our remaining student loans. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2021, we transferred loans to held for sale with a carrying value which collectively totaled $778 million, including related escrow advances. 

Performance, Developments and Trends The following tables set forth selected financial metrics of HUSI for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 and at December 31, 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (dollars are in millions) Net income (loss) $ 688 &#160; $ (940) $ 113 Rate of return on average: Total assets .4 &#160; % (.5) % .1 % Common equity 3.6 &#160; (6.0) .2 Tangible common equity (1) 

3.7 &#160; (6.2) .2 Total equity 3.8 &#160; (5.1) .6 Net interest margin 1.13 &#160; 1.16 1.27 Efficiency ratio 89.7 &#160; 104.6 88.3 

Commercial net charge-off ratio (2) 

.09 &#160; .22 .09 

Consumer net charge-off ratio (2) 

.51 &#160; .39 .27 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table provides a reconciliation of average common equity to average tangible common equity: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (dollars are in millions) Common equity $ 16,896 &#160; $ 17,072 &#160; $ 17,479 &#160; Less: Goodwill 458 &#160; 651 &#160; 1,514 &#160; Less: Intangible assets - purchased credit card relationships 5 &#160; 11 &#160; 18 &#160; Tangible common equity $ 16,433 &#160; $ 16,410 &#160; $ 15,947 &#160; ##TABLE_END

(2) Excludes loans held for sale. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 (dollars are in millions) Additional Select Ratios: 

Allowance as a percent of loans (1) 

.80 &#160; % 1.63 % 

Commercial allowance as a percent of loans (1) 

1.06 &#160; 1.96 

Consumer allowance as a percent of loans (1) 

.17 &#160; .98 

Loans to deposits ratio (2) 

41.69 &#160; 42.31 

Common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (3) 

15.1 &#160; 14.5 

Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (3) 

16.3 &#160; 15.6 

Total capital to risk-weighted assets (3) 

18.5 &#160; 18.8 Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.5 &#160; 8.6 Supplementary leverage ratio 6.6 &#160; 7.8 Total equity to total assets 9.0 &#160; 9.3 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Excludes loans held for sale. 

(2) Represents period end loans, net of allowance for loan losses, as a percentage of total deposits. Prior year amount has been revised to conform to the current year presentation. 

(3) Prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. See Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 

Net income (loss) was income of $688 million during 2021 compared with a loss of $940 million and income of $113 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income (loss) before income tax was income of $912 million during 2021 compared with a loss of $982 million and income of $270 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in income (loss) before income tax during 2021 compared to 2020 was due primarily to a lower provision for credit losses driven by improved economic conditions and, to a lesser extent, the impact of our decision to exit our mass market retail banking business as well as our remaining retail credit card portfolio which resulted in a release of credit loss reserves and a reduction to the provision for credit losses of approximately $101 million during the second quarter of 2021. Also contributing to the increase were lower operating expenses driven by the non-recurrence of a $784 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2020. These increases were partially offset by lower other revenues driven by lower trading revenue as well as lower net interest income. 

The decrease in income (loss) before income tax during 2020 compared with 2019 was due primarily to a higher provision for credit losses driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and higher operating expenses driven by higher goodwill impairment charges as the impact of the charge recorded in 2020 was partially offset by a $365 million goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2019. Also contributing to the decrease were lower other revenues driven by lower trading revenue, partially offset by higher net interest income. 

Our reported results in all periods were impacted by certain items management believes to be significant, which affect comparability between periods. Significant items are excluded to arrive at adjusted performance because management would ordinarily identify and consider them separately to better understand underlying business trends. The following table summarizes the impact of these significant items for all periods presented: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Income (loss) before income tax, as reported $ 912 &#160; $ (982) $ 270 Goodwill impairment &#8212; &#160; 784 365 

Costs to achieve (1) 

341 &#160; 278 &#8212; 

Losses related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares previously sold (2) 

3 &#160; 9 52 

Lease impairment (3) 

&#8212; &#160; &#8212; 38 

Severance costs (4) 

&#8212; &#160; &#8212; 33 

Gains on extinguishment of debt, net (5) 

&#8212; &#160; (12) (70) 

Adjusted performance (6) 

$ 1,256 &#160; $ 77 $ 688 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Reflects costs related to the delivery of our Restructuring Plan. Costs to achieve primarily consists of lease impairment and other related costs, severance costs, allocated costs from HSBC Technology &#38; Services ("HTSU"), and trading losses associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts. See Note 3, "Strategic Initiatives," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of these costs. The expense during 2021 also includes a gain of $9 million on the sale of a portfolio of mass market retail credit cards, $8 million of transaction costs directly associated with the branch disposal group held for sale and $53 million of allocated costs from other HSBC affiliates related to the HSBC Group's restructuring activities. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The expense during 2020 also includes $18 million of gains on sales of certain owned retail branch properties and $16 million of allocated costs from other HSBC affiliates related to the HSBC Group's restructuring activities. 

(2) Reflects losses on the swap agreements we entered into to retain the litigation risk associated with the Visa Inc. ("Visa") Class B common shares ("Class B Shares") we sold to a third party in 2016 and 2017. See Note 28, "Guarantee Arrangements, Pledged Assets and Repurchase Agreements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for addition information. In 2021, the loss related to a change in the Visa Class B Share conversion rate. In 2020, the loss primarily related to extending the maturity of the total return swap position used to economically hedge the periodic payments made under the swap agreements. In 2019, the loss related to an increase in the expected timing of the final resolution of the related litigation and, to a lesser extent, changes in the Visa Class B Share conversion rate. 

(3) Includes lease impairment and other related costs of $19 million related to a decision to exit certain branches in 2019 as well as $19 million of allocated lease impairment costs from HTSU. 

(4) Reflects severance costs associated with a 2019 global effort aimed to right-size our cost base. 

(5) The gain in 2020 related to the extinguishment of time deposits reflecting early client withdrawals. In 2019, HSBC Bank USA repurchased long-term debt that was designated under fair value option and recorded a net pre-tax gain on extinguishment of $84 million. The extinguishment resulted in the realization of a cumulative gain attributable to our own credit spread that was previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) which more than offset the premium paid to extinguish the debt. The net gain in 2019 also includes a loss of $14 million on extinguishment of certain repurchase agreements. 

(6) Represents a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. 

Excluding the impact of the items in the table above, our adjusted performance during 2021 increased $1,179 million compared with 2020 due primarily to a lower provision for credit losses as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase were lower operating expenses, partially offset by lower other revenues driven by lower trading revenue as well as lower net interest income. Excluding the impact of the items in the table above, our adjusted performance during 2020 decreased $611 million compared with 2019 due primarily to a higher provision for credit losses driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and lower other revenues driven by lower trading revenue which were partially offset by lower operating expenses and higher net interest income. 

See "Results of Operations" for a more detailed discussion of our operating trends. In addition, see "Balance Sheet Review" for further discussion on our asset and liability trends, "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further discussion on funding and capital and "Credit Quality" for additional discussion on our credit trends. 

London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") Transition Regulators and central banks in various national jurisdictions continue to actively work to help transition from interbank offered rates ("IBORs") to acceptable alternative rates, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee ("ARRC") convened by the FRB. We have a considerable number of contracts referencing IBORs, primarily U.S. dollar ("USD") LIBOR, such as loans, derivatives and long-term debt. 

In March 2021, the United Kingdom ("U.K.") Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") announced that all LIBOR tenors will either cease to be provided by any administrator or no longer be representative immediately after December 31, 2021, in the case of the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR tenors and all non-USD LIBOR tenors, and immediately after June 30, 2023, in the case of the remaining overnight, one-month, three-month, six-month and twelve-month USD LIBOR tenors. The extension of certain USD LIBOR tenors until June 2023 will allow many legacy LIBOR-based contracts to mature naturally and significantly aids in reducing the risks associated with transitioning legacy contracts onto replacement rates. Additionally, in September 2021, the FCA confirmed that to avoid a disruption to legacy contracts that reference the one-month, three-month and six-month sterling and Japanese yen LIBOR settings, it will require the administrator to publish these settings for the duration of 2022. These six settings will be available only for use in some legacy contracts, and are not for use in new business. 

Separately, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ("ISDA") has confirmed that the fallback spread adjustments to be used in its ISDA fallbacks have been fixed as of the date of the March 2021 FCA announcement. As a result, the ISDA fallbacks (i.e., to the adjusted risk-free rate plus the fixed spread adjustment) will automatically occur for outstanding derivative contracts that incorporate the ISDA fallback language or adhere to the ISDA fallback protocol generally when each LIBOR tenor ceases or becomes non-representative. For all outstanding derivatives referenced to USD LIBOR tenors, the ISDA fallback will occur at the first reset subsequent to June 30, 2023. These announcements provide clarity on the future terms of the many derivative contracts which now incorporate the ISDA fallbacks. 

HSBC has established a global transition program in which we actively participate with the objective of facilitating an orderly transition of all products, processes, models and curves, as well as all legacy LIBOR-based contracts, onto replacement rates. This program is aimed to minimize the risks arising from the transition by developing alternative rate product capabilities and transitioning legacy contracts. The program is significant in terms of scale and complexity and will impact all global businesses as well as multiple products, currencies, systems and processes. Transition results in a number of risks, mainly conduct risk, execution risk, financial risk and non-financial risk. We have developed a risk inventory, including mitigating actions, and the identified risks are being monitored. Furthermore, the transition could have a range of adverse impacts on our business, including legal proceedings or other actions regarding the interpretation and enforceability of provisions in LIBOR contracts and regulatory investigations or reviews regarding our preparation and readiness for the replacement of LIBOR with alternative reference rates. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Through 2021, we have implemented the capabilities to offer alternative rate products and the supporting processes and systems, including SOFR-based adjustable rate mortgage ("ARM") loans and bilateral loans in our Wealth and Personal Banking business, SOFR-based syndicated loans and bilateral loans in our Commercial Banking business, SOFR-based syndicated loans, bilateral loans and derivatives in our Global Banking and Markets business and SOFR-based derivatives in our Markets Treasury function. We also met the industry milestone to cease entering into new LIBOR-based contracts by the end of 2021, with the exception of derivative contracts allowed for risk management purposes only. Previously, we had incorporated the appropriate ARRC recommended fallback language into new LIBOR-based contracts for syndicated loans, bilateral loans, floating rate notes and ARM loans. In addition, the ISDA had updated its benchmark fallback language for new LIBOR-based derivative contracts and established its industry protocol to facilitate the incorporation of the new fallback language into legacy non-cleared derivative contracts. We are adhering to the protocol, which became effective in January 2021. Central clearing counterparties also amended their rules in 2021 to incorporate the new ISDA fallback language and adhere to the ISDA fallback protocol for cleared derivative contracts. 

The ability of HUSI and its clients to transition legacy contracts onto replacement rates is dependent on the availability of products that reference replacement rates, including SOFR, and on our customers being ready and able to adapt their own processes and systems to accommodate the replacement products. We have engaged with our clients on the alternative rate products we developed and to determine their ability and readiness to transition. During 2021, our client transition efforts focused on those contracts that would have been impacted by tenors ceasing or becoming non-representative immediately after December 31, 2021, primarily consisting of contracts for certain non-USD LIBOR-based commercial loans and certain non-USD LIBOR-based derivatives. The substantial majority of these contracts were successfully transitioned onto replacement rates or included appropriate fallback provisions upon cessation. 

In 2022, there will be an increasing focus on transitioning our USD LIBOR-based contracts. Market readiness in support of USD LIBOR transition could slow the transition and we remain prepared that the transition of outstanding contracts could be concentrated in late 2022 and the first half of 2023. The substantial majority of our outstanding USD LIBOR-based derivative contracts adhere to and are covered by the ISDA fallback protocol, which allows us to focus discussions with clients on transitioning those contracts that do not adhere. For USD-LIBOR based loans, the transition of legacy contracts in our consumer mortgage loan portfolios will occur once an industry spread adjustment is available, and we will start to engage our commercial loan clients with upcoming contract maturities with a view to refinancing onto an appropriate replacement rate. We also continue to formulate plans to enable us to transition our LIBOR-based debt and other LIBOR-based debt where we are the payment agent, though execution of these transition plans will, to a certain extent, also depend on the engagement of third party market participants in the transition process. 

As discussed above, the extension of certain USD LIBOR tenors until June 2023 significantly aids in reducing the risks associated with transitioning legacy contracts onto replacement rates. The anticipated longer timeframe for transition may, however, increase potential timing differences between USD LIBOR-based assets and liabilities moving to SOFR prior to June 2023. In addition, the exit or transfer of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan along with the successful transition of certain non-USD LIBOR-based contracts as discussed above have led to further reductions in our LIBOR exposures during 2021. We continue to engage with industry participants, the official sector and our clients to support an orderly transition and the mitigation of the risks resulting from the transition. 

COVID-19 Related Developments 

The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted economic activity in many countries, including the United States, and the U.S. Government has taken multiple actions to mitigate the magnitude and persistence of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The United States has been operating under a presidentially declared national emergency since March 2020. In March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") was signed into law, which provided financial assistance for businesses and individuals and targeted regulatory relief for financial institutions. In December 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act was signed into law, which extended many of the CARES Act programs and provided additional financial assistance for businesses and individuals. 

Loan Forbearance Initiatives The CARES Act created a forbearance program for federally-backed mortgage loans and provided financial institutions with the option to temporarily suspend certain requirements under U.S. GAAP related to troubled debt restructurings ("TDR Loans") beginning March 1, 2020. This TDR Loan guidance expired on January 1, 2022. We elected to adopt the TDR Loan guidance in the CARES Act and did not apply TDR Loan classification to COVID-19 related loan modifications in the form of a long-term payment deferral (for commercial loans all payment modifications, including all payment deferrals) granted to borrowers that were current (less than 30 days past due) as of December 31, 2019 which otherwise may have been reported as TDR Loans. The CARES Act also prohibited servicers of federally-backed mortgage loans from initiating any foreclosure action on any residential property that is not vacant or abandoned for a period of 60 days. This moratorium expired on July 31, 2021, although homeowners continued to have protection from eviction due to foreclosure through September 30, 2021. In addition to these federal measures, some state governments have taken action to require 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

forbearance with respect to certain loans and fees. We are continuing to monitor federal, state and international regulatory developments in relation to COVID-19 and their potential impact on our operations. 

In 2020, federal banking regulators issued a revised interagency statement on loan modifications and the reporting for financial institutions working with customers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic ("Interagency Statement"). The Interagency Statement confirmed that COVID-19 related short-term loan modifications (e.g., payment deferrals of six months or less) provided to borrowers that were current (less than 30 days past due) at the time the relief was granted were not TDR Loans. Borrowers that did not meet the criteria in the CARES Act or the Interagency Statement were assessed for TDR Loan classification in accordance with our accounting policies. 

In addition, under the Interagency Statement, for COVID-19 related loan modifications in the form of a payment deferral, the borrower&#8217;s past due status was not affected during the deferral period and, if the loan was accruing at the time the relief was granted, the loan was generally not placed on nonaccrual status as long as the borrower utilized a payment deferral of six months or less. For consumer mortgage loans, when a borrower utilized a payment deferral of more than six months, the loan was generally placed on nonaccrual status and, if the loan did not meet the criteria in the CARES Act, assessed for TDR Loan classification. Any accrued interest recorded on these loans was generally not reversed against income and remained recorded as accrued interest receivable. We did not modify our commercial loan nonaccrual policies as a result of this guidance. 

We implemented various loan modification payment deferral programs to provide borrowers relief from the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The following table summarizes information about loans under these programs as of December 31, 2021. Not included in the following table are loans that have exited the programs or have been transferred to held for sale as well as other forms of relief that we provided to commercial clients affected by the impact of COVID-19, such as covenant waivers and amendments, and deferrals of financial statement and covenant compliance reporting requirements. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2021 Number of Loans Loan Amount % of Loans with Payment (1) 

Program Details (dollars are in millions) Commercial: Global banking 1 &#160; $ 38 &#160; 0% Represents a loan with a remaining deferral period that ends in June 2022 Other commercial 1 &#160; 4 &#160; 0 Represents a loan with a remaining deferral period that ends in January 2022 Total commercial 2 &#160; 42 &#160; 0 Consumer: Residential mortgages (2) 

53 &#160; 33 &#160; 42 Primarily includes loans with remaining deferral periods that end in the first quarter of 2022 Home equity mortgages (2) 

11 &#160; 1 &#160; 55 Primarily includes loans with remaining deferral periods that end in the first quarter of 2022 Total consumer (3) 

64 &#160; 34 &#160; 42 Total 66 &#160; $ 76 &#160; 19 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Represents the percentage of loans under a COVID-19 related payment deferral program at December 31, 2021 for which at least one payment was collected during the fourth quarter of 2021. 

(2) Includes $17 million of consumer mortgage loans where the borrowers were provided with extended payment deferral relief of more than six months at December 31, 2021. Due to our CARES Act election, $16 million of these loans were exempted from TDR assessment. In addition, $12 million of these loans have been placed on nonaccrual status, because the borrowers utilized a payment deferral of more than six months. 

(3) Not included in the table at December 31, 2021 are $332 million of consumer loans under COVID-19 payment deferral programs which were transferred to held for sale during 2021. See Note 9, "Loans Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

When the payment relief period ends, borrowers have various options, including repaying the deferred payments in full, repaying the deferred payments over an installment period or moving the deferred payments to the end of the loan. In addition, if a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty when the payment relief period ends, they may enter into a modification program to reduce the interest rate and/or extend the term of the loan which would result in the loan being classified as a TDR Loan. As of December 31, 2021, $1,351 million and $1,177 million of commercial and consumer loans, respectively, have exited a COVID-19 related payment deferral program, of which nil and $26 million, respectively, entered into a modification program upon exiting that resulted in the loans being classified as TDR Loans. Of the commercial and consumer loans that have exited a COVID-19 related payment deferral program, 100 percent and 77 percent, respectively, were current or less than 30 days past due as of December 31, 2021. 

Loans outstanding under these COVID-19 related payment deferral programs have decreased substantially since they were first introduced in early 2020. We will continue to support our customers and provide relief to those borrowers who remain impacted 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

by the pandemic. We currently expect any such relief will generally be in the form of payment deferrals of no more than three months, with new enrollments / extensions ceasing by the end of the second quarter of 2022. Any such relief will be assessed for TDR Loan classification and nonaccrual status in accordance with our accounting policies. In addition, after the CARES Act guidance expires on January 1, 2022, if a borrower exits a long-term COVID-19 related payment relief program and we agree to move the deferred payments to the end of the loan, the modification could result in the loan being classified as a TDR Loan if the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. As a result, we expect to experience an increase in reported TDR Loans in 2022. 

Paycheck Protection Program The CARES Act created a new loan guarantee program entitled the Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") targeted to provide small businesses with support to cover payroll and certain other expenses. Loans made under the PPP are fully guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA"), whose guarantee is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. PPP covered loans also afford borrowers forgiveness up to the principal amount of the PPP covered loan, plus accrued interest, if the loan proceeds are used to retain workers and maintain payroll or to make certain mortgage interest, lease and utility payments, and certain other criteria are satisfied. The SBA will reimburse PPP lenders for any amount of a PPP covered loan that is forgiven, and PPP lenders will not be held liable for any representations made by PPP borrowers in connection with their requests for loan forgiveness. Lenders receive pre-determined fees for processing and servicing PPP loans. In addition, PPP loans are risk-weighted at zero percent under the generally-applicable Standardized Approach used to calculate risk-weighted assets for regulatory capital purposes. HSBC Bank USA is a PPP participating lender and had loans funded under the PPP which totaled $262 million at December 31, 2021. The SBA deadline for accepting PPP loan applications from participating lenders expired on May 31, 2021. 

Future Prospects Our operations are dependent upon our ability to grow revenues, achieve our cost reduction initiatives, maintain stable deposit balances and, to a lesser extent, access the global capital markets. Numerous factors, both internal and external, may impact our access to, and the costs associated with, both retail and wholesale sources of funding. These factors may include our debt ratings, overall economic conditions, overall capital markets volatility, the counterparty credit limits of investors to the HSBC Group, and our management of the credit risks inherent in our business and customer base. 

Our results are also impacted by general global and domestic economic conditions, including employment levels, housing market conditions, property valuations, interest rates and legislative and regulatory changes, all of which are beyond our control. Changes in interest rates generally affect both the rates we charge to our customers and the rates we pay on our borrowings. Achieving our profitability goals in 2022 is largely dependent upon macroeconomic conditions which include the interest rate environment, housing market conditions, unemployment levels, market volatility, energy prices and our ability to attract and retain loans and deposits from customers, all of which could impact trading and other revenue, net interest income, loan volume, loss provision and ultimately our results of operations. Failure to successfully implement our business strategies may also have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Basis of Reporting 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). 

Group Reporting Basis We report financial information to HSBC in accordance with HSBC Group accounting and reporting policies, which apply International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") as issued by the IASB. As a result, our segment results are prepared and presented using financial information prepared on the basis of HSBC Group's accounting and reporting policies ("Group Reporting Basis"). Because operating results on the Group Reporting Basis are used in managing our businesses and rewarding performance of employees, our management also separately monitors profit before tax under this basis of reporting. The following table reconciles our U.S. GAAP versus Group Reporting Basis profit (loss) before tax: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Profit (loss) before tax &#8211; U.S. GAAP basis $ 912 &#160; $ (982) $ 270 Adjustments: Expected credit losses (272) 204 36 Loans held for sale (62) 13 (1) Pension and other postretirement benefit costs (10) (15) (12) Deposit incentives (4) 7 17 Leases 6 &#160; (9) (17) Renewable energy tax credit investments 21 &#160; 11 7 Other long-lived assets 61 &#160; (264) &#8212; Goodwill impairment &#8212; &#160; 91 156 Debt extinguishment &#8212; &#160; &#8212; (123) Other (11) 15 23 Profit (loss) before tax &#8211; Group Reporting Basis $ 641 &#160; $ (929) $ 356 ##TABLE_END

The significant differences between U.S. GAAP and the Group Reporting Basis as they impact our results are summarized in Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Differences in reported profit (loss) before tax in the table above that were individually significant for 2021 and 2020 are explained below. See "Basis of Reporting" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 ("2020 Form 10-K") for an explanation of the differences in reported profit (loss) before tax in the table above that were individually significant for 2019. 

During 2021, expected credit losses were lower under U.S. GAAP than under the Group Reporting Basis. Under the Group Reporting Basis, a majority of our loans are considered to be in "stage 1" (which requires a 12-month expected credit losses estimate), while under U.S. GAAP such loans require a lifetime expected credit losses ("lifetime ECL") estimate. Primarily as a result of the different requirements, releases in credit reserves driven by improved economic conditions, which resulted in improved economic forecasts used to calculate expected credit losses as well as client paydowns, were more pronounced under U.S. GAAP. 

During 2020, expected credit losses were higher under U.S. GAAP than under the Group Reporting Basis. Primarily as a result of the different requirements related to stage 1 loans discussed above, loss provisions in 2020 driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used to calculate expected credit losses and downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients, were more pronounced under U.S. GAAP. 

During 2021, we transferred certain loans to held for sale which under U.S. GAAP requires the loans to be carried at the lower of amortized cost or fair value which resulted in releases of credit loss reserves and lower of amortized cost or fair value adjustments on the loans. Under the Group Reporting Basis, loans held for sale continue to be accounted for and credit losses continue to be measured in accordance with IFRS 9, "Financial Instruments," with any gain or loss recorded at the time of sale. In addition, a portion of the loans transferred under U.S. GAAP did not meet the more stringent criteria for held for sale classification under the Group Reporting Basis. 

During 2021, amortization expense for long-lived assets was higher under U.S. GAAP due to the impairment charge recorded under the Group Reporting Basis during 2020 as discussed below. In addition, during 2021, we determined we would exit certain branches as part of our Restructuring Plan and, as a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $18 million under U.S. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

GAAP to write-off the leasehold improvements associated with these branches. These leasehold improvements were previously written-off under the Group Reporting Basis as discussed below. 

During 2020, we determined that long-lived assets comprising capitalized software, property, plant and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets may not be recoverable and tested the long-lived asset group for impairment. Under the Group Reporting Basis, we recorded an impairment charge of $277 million to write down the long-lived asset group to its estimated fair value, consisting of the write-off of all the capitalized software and a portion of the leasehold improvements primarily associated with our Wealth and Personal Banking business segment. Under U.S. GAAP, the estimated undiscounted cash flows of the long-lived asset group exceeded its carrying amount and no impairment charge was required. Consequently, the carrying amounts of capitalized software and leasehold improvements are higher under U.S. GAAP than under the Group Reporting Basis and, as a result, corresponding amortization expense is higher under U.S. GAAP. See Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. 

During 2020, goodwill impairment charges were lower under the Group Reporting Basis than under U.S. GAAP. Under the Group Reporting Basis, goodwill was amortized until 2005, however goodwill was amortized under U.S. GAAP until 2002, which resulted in a lower carrying amount of goodwill and, therefore, a lower impairment charge under the Group Reporting Basis. 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. We believe our policies are appropriate and fairly present the financial position and results of operations of HSBC USA. 

The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are more fully described in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Certain accounting policies affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are complex and involve significant judgments by our management, including the use of estimates and assumptions. As a result, changes in estimates, assumptions or operational policies could significantly affect our financial position and our results of operations. We base our accounting estimates on historical experience, observable market data, inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means and on various other assumptions that we believe to be appropriate, including assumptions based on unobservable inputs. To the extent we use models to assist us in measuring the fair value of particular assets or liabilities, we strive to use models that are consistent with those used by other market participants. Actual results may differ from these estimates due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change. The impact of estimates and assumptions on our financial condition or operating performance may be material. 

Of the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the items discussed below involve what we have identified as critical accounting estimates based on the associated degree of judgment and complexity. Our management has reviewed these critical accounting estimates as well as the associated assumptions and accompanying disclosure with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 

Allowance for Credit Losses &#160; Because we lend money to others, we are exposed to the risk that borrowers may not repay amounts owed to us when contractually due. Consequently, we maintain an allowance for credit losses that reflects our estimate of lifetime ECL for loans and other financial assets measured at amortized cost. Allowance for credit loss estimates are reviewed periodically and adjustments are recognized in the provision for credit losses during the period they become known. Our Risk and Finance departments share responsibility for establishing appropriate levels of allowances for credit losses inherent in our various loan and other portfolios carried at amortized cost, including debt securities, and they assess and independently approve our allowance for credit losses. See Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our accounting policies and methodologies for establishing the allowance for credit losses and liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures. 

The accounting estimates relating to the allowance for credit losses are "critical accounting estimates" for the following reasons: 

&#8226; Changes in the provision for credit losses can materially affect our financial results; 

&#8226; Estimates related to the allowance for credit losses require us to project future borrower performance, including cash flows, delinquencies and charge-offs, along with, when applicable, collateral values, based on a reasonable and supportable forecast period utilizing forward-looking economic scenarios in order to estimate probability of default and loss given default; 

&#8226; Credit losses are influenced by factors outside of our control such as industry and business trends, geopolitical events and the effects of laws and regulations as well as economic conditions such as trends in housing prices, interest rates, GDP, inflation, energy prices and unemployment; and 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; Judgment is required to determine whether the models used to generate the allowance for credit losses produce an estimate that is sufficient to encompass the current view of lifetime ECL. 

Because our estimates of the allowance for credit losses involve judgment and are influenced by factors outside of our control, there is uncertainty inherent in these estimates. Changes in such estimates could significantly impact our allowance and provision for credit losses. Our reported combined estimated allowance for credit losses and liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures ranged from $553 million to $1,257 million during 2021. 

As discussed further in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we utilize a minimum of three forward-looking economic scenarios to estimate lifetime ECL. In periods with high economic uncertainty, we supplement the lifetime estimate with alternative scenarios, each assigned a weighting based upon management's assessment of the likelihood of occurrence. This was the case beginning in 2020 and throughout 2021 as the economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic continued to create uncertainty about the future economic environment. As a result, we developed and continued to utilize a fourth scenario for estimating lifetime ECL, referred to as the "Alternative Downside scenario". 

As an illustration of the effect of changes in estimates relating to the allowance for credit losses, using a 100 percent weighting for the Alternative Downside scenario instead of using the four weighted scenarios at December 31, 2021 would have resulted in a combined increase to our allowance for credit losses and liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures of approximately $255 million. This illustration only represents the effect of changes in the weighting of these scenarios on our existing modeled portfolios and does not consider changes in the allowance related to management judgment that might occur. 

Our allowance for credit losses is based on estimates and is intended to be adequate but not excessive. The allowance for credit losses is regularly assessed for adequacy. The allowance for credit losses, which is carried as a reduction to the respective assets on the balance sheet, includes reserves for lifetime ECL associated with loans and other financial assets carried at amortized cost. A reserve is also maintained for off-balance sheet risk, which is recorded in other liabilities and includes lifetime ECL arising from off-balance sheet arrangements such as letters of credit and undrawn commitments to lend. 

The allowances include amounts calculated for individual loan balances and for collective loan portfolios depending on the nature of the exposure and the manner in which risks inherent in that exposure are managed. In addition, the allowance for credit losses on consumer and commercial loans reflects management judgment of risk factors that may not be fully reflected in the lifetime ECL generated by our models. In making this determination, we consider the characteristics of our portfolio and any other significant factors that are relevant. Management review committees have been established in order to review and approve the results of the lifetime ECL calculations. The management review committees have representatives from Credit Risk and Finance and are responsible for final approval of our lifetime ECL for the period. The committees also consider other observable factors, both internal and external to us in the general economy, to ensure that the estimates provided by the various models adequately include all known information at each reporting period. 

Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Asset Impairment Goodwill is not subject to amortization but is tested for possible impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the asset might be impaired. Impairment testing requires that the fair value of each reporting unit be compared with its carrying amount, which is determined on the basis of capital invested in the unit including attributable goodwill. We determine the invested capital of a reporting unit by applying to the reporting unit's risk-weighted assets a capital charge that is consistent with the targets assigned and monitored through our capital management monitoring framework, and additionally, allocating to each reporting unit the remaining carrying amount of HUSI's net assets. Accordingly, the entire carrying amount of HUSI's net assets is allocated to our reporting units. Significant and long-term changes in the applicable reporting unit's industry and related economic conditions are considered to be primary indicators of potential impairment due to their impact on expected future cash flows. In addition, shorter-term changes may impact the discount rate applied to such cash flows based on changes in investor requirements or market uncertainties. In evaluating possible impairment, specific factors we consider are: (a) the observance of material changes to business plan information (e.g., financial forecasts); (b) significant increases in observed peer group discount rates; (c) significant announced or planned business divestitures; (d) the margin by which the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded the carrying amount at the previous testing date; (e) deterioration in macroeconomic, industry or market conditions that have not yet been reflected in the latest business plan information, if any, and; (f) other relevant events specific to the reporting unit (e.g., changes in management, strategy or customers, capital allocation or litigation). 

The determination of fair value as part of the impairment testing of our goodwill is a "critical accounting estimate" due to the significant judgment required in the use of the fair value approaches. We utilize the market approach and the discounted cash flow method to determine fair value. The market approach focuses on valuation multiples for reasonably similar publicly traded companies and also considers recent market transactions. The discounted cash flow method includes such variables as revenue growth rates, expense trends, interest rates and terminal values. Based on an evaluation of key data and market factors, management's judgment is required to select the specific variables to be incorporated into the models. Additionally, the estimated fair value can be significantly impacted by the risk adjusted cost of capital percentage used to discount future cash 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

flows. The risk adjusted cost of capital percentage is derived from an appropriate capital asset pricing model, which itself depends on a number of financial and economic variables which are established on the basis of those believed to be used by market participants. Because our fair value estimate involves judgment and is influenced by factors outside our control, it is reasonably possible our judgment could change. When management's judgment is that the anticipated cash flows have decreased and/or the cost of capital percentage has increased, the effect will be a lower estimate of fair value which could result in an impairment charge and a negative impact to net income (loss). 

Impairment testing of goodwill requires that the fair value of each reporting unit be compared with its carrying amount, including goodwill. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, all of our remaining goodwill of $458 million is allocated to our Commercial Banking reporting unit. 

We have established October 1 of each year as the date for conducting our annual goodwill impairment assessment. Goodwill impairment is measured and an impairment charge is recorded at the amount by which a reporting unit&#8217;s carrying amount, including allocated goodwill, exceeds its fair value. Any impairment charge recognized is limited to the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. Subsequent reversals of goodwill impairments are not permitted. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill and determined that the fair value of our Commercial Banking reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, with its fair value being significantly in excess of book value, including allocated goodwill. For additional discussion of the results of our goodwill impairment testing, see Note 11, "Goodwill," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Our fair value calculations are highly sensitive to certain assumptions and estimates used as discussed above. We will continue to monitor changes to our business forecasts as we continue to perform periodic analyses of the risks and strategies of our business and product offerings. If deterioration in economic and credit conditions, a change in the strategy or performance of our business or product offerings, or an increase in the capital requirements of our business occurs, interim goodwill impairment tests could be required, which may result in an impairment charge. 

In addition, we generally conduct impairment tests of capitalized software and other long-lived assets at the reporting unit level when events or circumstances indicate their carrying amount may not be recoverable. If impairment testing is required, long-lived assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows. If the estimated undiscounted cash flows of the long-lived asset group exceed its carrying amount, an impairment is not recognized. However, if the estimated undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group, a second step is performed to determine fair value and an impairment loss is required if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group exceeds fair value. Impairment losses are not reversible. Fair value calculations when required are consistent with the methodology used to determine fair value for goodwill impairment. 

Valuation of Financial Instruments A significant portion of our financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value. These include trading assets and liabilities, derivatives held for trading or used for hedging, securities available-for-sale, equity securities and certain loans held for sale. Furthermore, we have elected to measure specific assets and liabilities at fair value under the fair value option, including certain commercial loans held for sale, certain student loans, structured deposits, structured notes and certain of our own debt issuances. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Where available, we use quoted prices to determine fair value. If quoted prices are not available, we base fair value on models using inputs that are either directly observable or are derived from and corroborated by market data. 

Valuation of Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities - Fair value measurement accounting principles establish a fair value hierarchy structure that prioritizes the inputs to determine the fair value of an asset or liability (the "Fair Value Framework"). The Fair Value Framework establishes a three-tiered fair value hierarchy as discussed further in Note 29, "Fair Value Measurements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest hierarchical level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. As such, the classification of a financial asset or liability within the fair value hierarchy is dynamic in that the asset or liability could be transferred to other hierarchy levels in each reporting period as a result of price discovery. We review and update our fair value hierarchy classifications quarterly. Changes from one quarter to the next related to the observability of the inputs into a fair value measurement may result in a reclassification between hierarchy levels. Level 3 assets as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value were approximately 3.1 percent and 1.1 percent at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can impact the amount of revenue, expense or other comprehensive income recorded for a particular financial instrument. While we believe our valuation methods are appropriate, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date, which can result in equity and earnings volatility. For example, a 10 percent adverse change in the value of our level 3 assets (excluding derivatives) would have reduced their carrying value by approximately $214 million at December 31, 2021. For additional discussion of the determination of fair value for individual financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value see Note 29, "Fair Value Measurements," in the accompanying consolidated 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

financial statements. The following is a description of the methodologies used in the valuation of significant financial assets and liabilities for which quoted market prices and observable market parameters are not available. 

&#8226; Derivatives - We manage groups of derivative instruments with offsetting market and credit risks. Accordingly, we measure the fair value of each group of derivative instruments based on the exit price of the group's net risk position. The fair value of a net risk position is determined using internal models that utilize multiple valuation inputs. The majority of the valuation inputs can be validated through market consensus data. For complex or long-dated derivative products where market data is not available, fair value is sensitive to the limitation of the valuation model (model risk), the liquidity of the product (liquidity risk) and the assumptions about inputs not obtainable through price discovery process (data uncertainty risk). Accordingly, we make valuation adjustments to capture the risks and uncertainties. Because of the interrelated nature, we do not separately make an explicit adjustment to the fair value for each of these risks. Instead, we apply a range of assumptions to the valuation input that we believe implicitly incorporates adjustments for liquidity, model and data uncertainty risks. 

We also include a credit valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net derivative positions. In estimating the credit valuation adjustment, we net the derivative positions by counterparties. The fair value for a net long credit risk position is adjusted for the counterparty's credit risk referred to as credit valuation adjustment whereas the fair value for a net short credit risk position is adjusted for HUSI's own credit risk referred to as debit valuation adjustment. We calculate the credit valuation adjustment by applying the probability of default of the counterparty to the expected exposure, and multiplying the result by the expected loss given default. We estimate the implied probability of default based on the credit spread of the specific counterparty observed in the credit default swap market. Where credit default spread of the counterparty is not available, we use the credit default spread of a specific proxy (e.g. the credit default swap spread of the counterparty's parent) or a proxy based on credit default swaps referencing to credit names of similar credit standing. 

&#8226; Securities - For the majority of our trading and available-for-sale securities, we obtain fair value for each security instrument from multiple independent pricing vendors ("IPV") and brokers, if available. We have established adequate controls in pricing vendor selection and fair value validation. The validation methods include but are not limited to comparisons among IPV prices for the same instrument, review and challenge of IPV valuation methodologies, inputs and assumptions, and the elapsed time between the date to which market data relates and the measurement date. For securities that are difficult to value, we use internal pricing models which estimate the fair value based on our assumptions in funding risk, default risk and loss upon default. We exercise significant judgment in estimating these assumptions and inputs to the valuation model. We believe these model inputs reflect market participants' assumptions about risks and the risk premium required to compensate for undertaking risks. 

&#8226; Loans held for sale - Loans held for sale (that are not designated under the fair value option) are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. The fair value of consumer loans held for sale is estimated using either observed market prices of instruments with similar characteristics or the discounted cash flow method using assumptions consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans, including estimates of prepayment rates, default rates, loss severities and market rates of return. The fair value of commercial loans held for sale is estimated using observable market pricing obtained from independent sources, relevant broker quotes or observed market prices of instruments with similar characteristics. We also may hold discussions on value directly with potential investors or take into account underlying collateral values. For certain consumer and commercial loans transferred to held for sale during 2021, the fair value measurement processes use significant unobservable inputs to adjust market prices which are specific to the characteristics of the various loan portfolios. 

&#8226; Structured Notes and Deposits - Structured notes and deposits are hybrid instruments containing embedded derivatives. The valuation of the hybrid instruments is predominantly driven by the derivative features embedded within the instruments and our own credit risk. Depending on the complexity of the embedded derivative, the same risk elements of valuation adjustments described in the derivative section above would also apply to hybrid instruments. In addition, cash flows for the funded notes and deposits are discounted at the relevant interest rates for the duration of the instrument adjusted for our own credit spreads. The credit spreads so applied are determined with reference to our own debt issuance rates observed in primary and secondary markets, internal funding rates and the structured note rates in recent executions. 

Except for structured notes and deposits with embedded credit derivative features, the associated risks embedded in the hybrid instruments issued to customers are economically hedged with our affiliates through a freestanding derivative. As a result, with the exception of counterparty credit risks, HUSI is market risk neutral in substantially all of the structured notes and deposits. 

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for Federal and State net operating losses. Our net deferred tax assets, including deferred tax liabilities, totaled $1.0 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

billion at both December 31, 2021 and 2020. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering negative and positive evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and any carryback availability. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to earnings if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. Because the recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income and the application of inherently complex tax laws, we have identified the assessment of deferred tax assets and the need for any related valuation allowance as a critical accounting estimate. 

The use of different assumptions of future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income and the application of inherently complex tax laws can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. Furthermore, if future events differ from our current forecasts, valuation allowances may need to be established or adjusted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. We will continue to update our assumptions and forecasts of future taxable income and assess the need and adequacy of any valuation allowance. 

Our interpretations of tax laws are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and State taxing authorities. Resolution of disputes over interpretations of tax laws may result in us being assessed additional income taxes. We regularly review whether we may be assessed such additional income taxes and recognize liabilities for such potential future tax obligations as appropriate. 

Additional detail on our assumptions with respect to the judgments made in evaluating the realizability of our deferred tax assets and on the components of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2021 and 2020 can be found in Note 18, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Balance Sheet Review 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

The following table provides balance sheet totals at December 31, 2021 and increases (decreases) since December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Increase (Decrease) From &#160; &#160; December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

December 31, 2021 Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Period end assets: Short-term investments $ 58,868 &#160; $ 7,467 14.5 % Loans, net 55,417 &#160; (5,656) (9.3) Loans held for sale 4,217 &#160; 3,880 * Trading assets 24,043 &#160; (3,241) (11.9) Securities 40,501 &#160; (9,152) (18.4) All other assets 6,186 &#160; (500) (7.5) $ 189,232 &#160; $ (7,202) (3.7) % Period end liabilities and equity: Total deposits $ 143,032 &#160; $ (2,118) (1.5) % Trading liabilities 3,023 &#160; (2,374) (44.0) Short-term borrowings 6,338 &#160; 1,386 28.0 Long-term debt 17,236 &#160; (2,743) (13.7) Interest, taxes and other liabilities 2,563 &#160; (102) (3.8) Total equity 17,040 &#160; (1,251) (6.8) $ 189,232 &#160; $ (7,202) (3.7) % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

* Percentage change is greater than 100 percent. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Short-Term Investments Short-term investments include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Balances may fluctuate from period to period depending upon our liquidity position at the time and our strategy for deploying liquidity. Short-term investments increased compared with December 31, 2020 due to an increase in overall liquidity as we raised funds in advance of their usage. The increase in funds was driven primarily by net sales, paydowns and maturities of securities as well as lower trading assets and lower loans as discussed in detail below. These increases were partially offset by repayments of long-term debt and precious metal trading liabilities as well as lower deposits from affiliates. 

Loans, Net The following table summarizes our loan balances at December 31, 2021 and increases (decreases) since December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Increase (Decrease) From &#160; &#160; December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

December 31, 2021 Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial loans: Real estate, including construction 

$ 8,234 &#160; $ (2,230) (21.3) % Business and corporate banking 

13,958 &#160; 479 3.6 Global banking (1) 

11,109 &#160; (2,410) (17.8) Other commercial (2) 

6,495 &#160; 2,358 57.0 Total commercial 

39,796 &#160; (1,803) (4.3) Consumer loans: Residential mortgages 

15,469 &#160; (2,908) (15.8) Home equity mortgages 

325 &#160; (402) (55.3) Credit cards 204 &#160; (862) (80.9) Other consumer 70 &#160; (249) (78.1) Total consumer 16,068 &#160; (4,421) (21.6) Total loans 55,864 &#160; (6,224) (10.0) Allowance for credit losses (3) 

447 &#160; (568) (56.0) Loans, net $ 55,417 &#160; $ (5,656) (9.3) % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Represents large multinational firms including globally focused U.S. corporate and financial institutions, U.S. dollar lending to multinational banking clients managed by HSBC on a global basis and complex large business clients supported by Global Banking and Markets relationship managers. 

(2) Includes loans to HSBC affiliates which totaled $2,793 million and $1,100 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

(3) See "Credit Quality" in this MD&#38;A for a discussion of trends in our allowance for credit losses on loans. 

Commercial loans decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to the impact of our efforts to improve returns through disciplined lending, paydowns and lower demand from clients reflecting increased capital markets activity. Also contributing to the decrease were transfers of loans to held for sale, including certain commercial real estate loans with a carrying value of $1,123 million transferred during the third quarter of 2021 and our retail business banking loan portfolio with a carrying value of $149 million transferred during the second quarter of 2021 as discussed below. These decreases were partially offset by higher loans to affiliates. The decline in commercial non-affiliate loans was primarily in the real estate, consumer services, energy, semiconductor and chemicals industries, partially offset by an increase in the diversified financials industry. 

Consumer loans decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to transfers of certain loans to held for sale during 2021 with a carrying value which collectively totaled $4,361 million as discussed further below. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The following table presents loan-to-value ("LTV") ratios for our residential mortgage loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans held for sale: 

##TABLE_START LTV Ratios (1)(2) 

&#160; December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

First Lien Second Lien First Lien Second Lien LTV &#60; 80% 98.5 &#160; % 99.3 &#160; % 97.6 % 96.8 % 

80% &#60; LTV &#60; 90% 

1.4 &#160; .6 &#160; 2.1 2.7 

90% &#60; LTV &#60; 100% 

.1 &#160; .1 &#160; .2 .4 

LTV &#62; 100% 

&#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; .1 .1 Average LTV for portfolio 51.5 &#160; 44.6 &#160; 52.6 46.2 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) LTVs for first liens are calculated using the loan balance as of the reporting date. LTVs for second liens are calculated using the loan balance as of the reporting date plus the senior lien amount at origination. Current estimated property values are derived from the property's appraised value at the time of loan origination updated by the change in the Federal Housing Finance Agency's House Price Index ("HPI") at either a Core Based Statistical Area or state level. The estimated value of the homes could differ from actual fair values due to changes in condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within metropolitan statistical areas and other factors. As a result, actual property values associated with loans that end in foreclosure may be significantly lower than the estimates used for purposes of this disclosure. 

(2) Current estimated property values are calculated using the most current HPIs available and applied on an individual loan basis, which results in an approximate three month delay in the production of reportable statistics. Therefore, the information in the table above reflects current estimated property values using HPIs at September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Loans Held for Sale The following table summarizes loans held for sale at December 31, 2021 and increases (decreases) since December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Increase (Decrease) From &#160; &#160; December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

December 31, 2021 Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial loans: Real estate, including construction $ &#8212; &#160; $ (10) (100.0) % Business and corporate banking 123 &#160; 123 * Global banking 338 &#160; 219 * Total commercial 461 &#160; 332 * Consumer loans: Residential mortgages 3,082 &#160; 2,874 * Home equity mortgages 275 &#160; 275 * Credit cards 195 &#160; 195 * Other consumer 204 &#160; 204 * Total consumer 3,756 &#160; 3,548 * Total loans held for sale $ 4,217 &#160; $ 3,880 * ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

* Percentage change is greater than 100 percent. 

Commercial loans held for sale increased compared with December 31, 2020. During the second quarter of 2021, as part of our Restructuring Plan we made the decision to exit our mass market retail banking business. See Note 4, "Branch Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. As a result, during the second quarter of 2021, we transferred our retail business banking loan portfolio to held for sale with a carrying value of $149 million. At December 31, 2021, the carrying value of these loans was $79 million. 

Also included in commercial loans held for sale are certain other loans that we no longer intend to hold for investment and were transferred to held for sale which totaled $359 million and $93 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we sold a portfolio of commercial real estate loans to a third party sponsored asset-backed financing entity with a carrying value of $1,032 million at the time of sale and recognized an immaterial loss on sale, including transaction costs. These commercial real estate loans were transferred to held for sale during the third quarter of 2021 as part of an effort to reduce exposure to this sector and improve returns on risk-weighted assets. In connection with the sale, we provided a loan to the third-party buyer sponsored asset-backed financing entity for a portion of the purchase price. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

In addition, commercial loans held for sale includes certain loans that we have elected to designate under the fair value option which consists of loans that we originate in connection with our participation in a number of syndicated credit facilities with the intent of selling them to unaffiliated third parties as well as loans that we purchase from the secondary market and hold as hedges against our exposure to certain total return swaps. The fair value of these loans totaled $23 million and $36 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Balances will fluctuate from period to period depending on the volume and level of activity. 

Consumer loans held for sale increased compared with December 31, 2020. As discussed above, during the second quarter of 2021, as part of our Restructuring Plan we made the decision to exit our mass market retail banking business as well as our remaining retail credit card portfolio. As a result, during the second quarter of 2021, we transferred certain consumer loans to held for sale, including loans related to the branch disposal group, with a carrying value which collectively totaled $3,616 million, including $2,364 million of residential mortgages, $265 million of home equity mortgages, $829 million of credit cards and $158 million of other consumer loans. During the fourth quarter of 2021, consistent with our Restructuring Plan, we identified additional consumer loans that we no longer have the intent to hold for investment, consisting primarily of certain non-performing mortgage loans and government-backed mortgage loans as well as our remaining student loans. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2021, we transferred loans to held for sale with a carrying value which collectively totaled $778 million, including related escrow advances. At December 31, 2021, the carrying value of these transferred loans totaled $3,681 million, including $3,007 million of residential mortgages, $275 million of home equity mortgages, $195 million of credit cards and $204 million of other consumer loans (of which $25 million are student loans that we have previously elected to designate under the fair value option and are therefore carried at fair value). 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we sold a portfolio of mass market retail credit cards to a third party with a carrying value of $382 million at the time of sale and recognized a gain on sale of approximately $9 million, net of transaction costs. Under the terms of the sale agreement, we will continue to service the portfolio for a period of time not anticipated to exceed one year. Upon completion of the sale, a portfolio of Premier credit cards with a carrying value of $204 million was transferred back to held for investment as we now intend to hold these loans for the foreseeable future. These credit card portfolios were transferred to held for sale during the second quarter of 2021 as discussed above, but were not included in the branch disposal group. 

Also included in residential mortgage loans held for sale are agency-eligible conforming residential mortgage loans which are originated and held for sale to third parties, currently on a servicing retained basis. Balances will fluctuate from period to period depending on the volume and level of activity. Gains and losses from the sale of these residential mortgage loans are reflected as a component of other income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated statement of income (loss). 

Excluding the loans designated under fair value option discussed above, loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value, with adjustments to fair value being recorded as a valuation allowance through other revenues. The valuation allowance on consumer loans held for sale was $7 million and nil at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The valuation allowance on commercial loans held for sale was $5 million and $1 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Trading Assets and Liabilities The following table summarizes trading assets and liabilities at December 31, 2021 and increases (decreases) since December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Increase (Decrease) From &#160; &#160; December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

December 31, 2021 Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Trading assets: Securities (1) 

$ 18,731 &#160; $ (763) (3.9) % Precious metals 3,907 &#160; (1,082) (21.7) Derivatives, net 1,405 &#160; (1,396) (49.8) $ 24,043 &#160; $ (3,241) (11.9) % Trading liabilities: Securities sold, not yet purchased $ 1,103 &#160; $ 376 51.7 % Payables for precious metals 46 &#160; (2,266) (98.0) Derivatives, net 1,874 &#160; (484) (20.5) $ 3,023 &#160; $ (2,374) (44.0) % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) See Note 5, "Trading Assets and Liabilities," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a breakout of trading securities by category. 

Trading securities balances were lower compared with December 31, 2020 due to decreases in foreign sovereign and U.S. Treasury positions, partially offset by an increase in equity positions. Trading security positions are held as economic hedges of interest rate, credit and equity derivative products issued to clients of domestic and emerging markets. Balances of securities sold, not yet purchased were higher compared with December 31, 2020 driven by an increase in short U.S. Treasury positions related to economic hedges of derivatives in the interest rate trading portfolio. 

Precious metals trading assets decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to a decrease in our own silver inventory position as well as lower spot prices. Payables for precious metals were lower compared with December 31, 2020 reflecting a decrease in borrowing of gold inventory to support client activity levels. Precious metal positions may not represent our net underlying exposure as we may use derivatives contracts to reduce our risk associated with these positions, the fair value of which would appear in derivatives in the table above. 

Derivative asset and liability balances both decreased compared with December 31, 2020 mainly from market movements and reduced positions driven by the exit or transfer of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan which resulted in lower valuations of foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, commodity and credit derivatives. 

Securities Securities include securities available-for-sale and securities held-to-maturity, net. Securities balances were lower compared with December 31, 2020 driven by net sales, paydowns and maturities as part of our continuing strategy to maximize returns while balancing the securities portfolio for risk management purposes as well as unfavorable market valuations due to increasing yields. The decline in securities balances was primarily in U.S. Treasury and foreign sovereign securities which was partially offset by net purchases of U.S. Government sponsored mortgage-backed securities. 

All Other Assets &#160; All other assets includes, among other items, properties and equipment, net, goodwill and other branch related assets held for sale. All other assets decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to lower cash collateral posted, lower lease assets and lower investments in Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") stock. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Deposits The following table summarizes deposit balances by major depositor categories at December 31, 2021 and increases (decreases) since December 31, 2020: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; Increase (Decrease) From &#160; &#160; December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

December 31, 2021 Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Individuals, partnerships and corporations $ 119,284 &#160; $ (13,181) (10.0) % Domestic and foreign banks 12,875 &#160; 2,655 26.0 U.S. government and states and political subdivisions 297 &#160; (24) (7.5) Foreign governments and official institutions 1,826 &#160; (318) (14.8) 

Deposits held for sale (1) 

8,750 &#160; 8,750 * Total deposits $ 143,032 &#160; $ (2,118) (1.5) % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

* Percentage change is greater than 100 percent. 

(1) Represents deposits associated with the exit of our mass market retail banking business as part of our Restructuring Plan. 

Total deposits decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to lower deposits from affiliates, largely HSBC North America. Also contributing to the decrease were declines in time deposits and retail savings deposits. These decreases were partially offset by higher commercial deposits as our clients increased their deposits in response to the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and improved economic conditions, as well as higher deposits from a few large private banking clients. 

Short-Term Borrowings &#160; Short-term borrowings were higher compared with December 31, 2020 reflecting increases in commercial paper outstanding and securities sold under repurchase agreements. 

Long-Term Debt Long-term debt decreased compared with December 31, 2020 as the impact of debt issuances, including $3,500 million of senior debt issued to HSBC North America during the first half of 2021, was more than offset by debt retirements. Debt issuances during 2021 totaled $7,711 million, of which $866 million was issued by HSBC Bank USA. 

Incremental issuances from our shelf registration statement with the SEC totaled $3,345 million of senior structured notes during 2021. Total long-term debt outstanding under this shelf was $7,346 million and $9,138 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Incremental issuances from the HSBC Bank USA Global Bank Note Program totaled $866 million during 2021. Total debt outstanding under this program was $1,966 million and $1,888 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Borrowings from the FHLB totaled $1,000 million and $4,250 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Interest, Taxes and Other Liabilities Interest, taxes and other liabilities includes, among other items, other branch related liabilities held for sale. Interest, taxes and other liabilities decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to lower lease liabilities and a lower liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures, partially offset by higher outstanding settlement balances related to security purchases. 

Total Equity During the fourth quarter of 2021, we paid a distribution on our common stock of $1.0 billion from surplus capital to HSBC North America. See Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statement for additional details. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Results of Operations 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

2020 compared with 2019 See "Results of Operations" in our 2020 Form 10-K for a discussion of our operating results for 2020 compared with 2019. See below for a discussion of our operating results for 2021 compared with 2020 . 

Net Interest Income Net interest income is the total interest income on earning assets less the total interest expense on deposits and borrowed funds. An analysis of consolidated average balances and interest rates is presented in this MD&#38;A under the caption "Consolidated Average Balances and Interest Rates." 

The significant components of net interest margin are summarized in the following table: 

##TABLE_START &#160; &#160; 2021 Compared with 2020 Increase (Decrease) &#160; 2020 Compared with 2019 Increase (Decrease) &#160; Year Ended December 31, 2021 Volume Rate 2020 Volume Rate 2019 &#160; (dollars are in millions) Interest income: Short-term investments $ 81 &#160; $ 56 $ (118) $ 143 $ 282 $ (712) $ 573 Trading securities 225 &#160; (35) (28) 288 (6) 3 291 Securities 641 &#160; (146) (110) 897 52 (343) 1,188 Commercial loans 1,048 &#160; (266) (170) 1,484 (33) (572) 2,089 Consumer loans 657 &#160; (9) (52) 718 26 (75) 767 Other 23 &#160; (23) 4 42 24 (64) 82 Total interest income 2,675 &#160; (423) (474) 3,572 345 (1,763) 4,990 Interest expense: Deposits 267 &#160; (30) (458) 755 306 (1,026) 1,475 Short-term borrowings 18 &#160; (19) (32) 69 9 (171) 231 Long-term debt 296 &#160; (94) (168) 558 (218) (361) 1,137 Tax liabilities and other 11 &#160; 4 (9) 16 (9) (10) 35 Total interest expense 592 &#160; (139) (667) 1,398 88 (1,568) 2,878 Net interest income $ 2,083 &#160; $ (284) $ 193 $ 2,174 $ 257 $ (195) $ 2,112 Yield on total interest earning assets 

1.46 &#160; % 1.91 % 3.00 % Cost of total interest bearing liabilities 

.44 &#160; .96 2.21 Interest rate spread 

1.02 &#160; .95 .79 Benefit from net non-interest paying funds (1) 

.11 &#160; .21 .48 Net interest margin on average earning assets 

1.13 &#160; % 1.16 % 1.27 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Represents the benefit associated with interest earning assets in excess of interest bearing liabilities. Increased percentages reflect growth in this excess or a higher cost of interest bearing liabilities, while decreased percentages reflect a reduction in this excess or a lower cost of interest bearing liabilities. 

Net interest income decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower interest income from interest earning assets driven by lower yields, primarily on loans, short-term investments and securities, as well as the unfavorable impact of lower average interest earning asset balances, primarily commercial loans and securities. These decreases were partially offset by lower interest expense from interest bearing liabilities driven by lower rates paid and the favorable impact of lower average interest bearing liability balances. 

Short-term investments Interest income decreased during 2021 due to lower yields reflecting the impact of lower market rates, partially offset by higher average balances. Higher average balances were driven by higher deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank, partially offset by lower securities purchased under resale agreements. 

Trading securities Interest income decreased during 2021 due to lower average balances and lower yields reflecting the impact of lower market rates. Lower average balances were driven by declines in foreign sovereign and U.S. Treasury positions, partially offset by an increase in equity positions. Interest income associated with trading securities was partially offset within trading revenue by the performance of the associated derivatives as discussed further below. 

Securities Interest income was lower during 2021 due to lower average balances and lower yields reflecting the impact of lower market rates. Lower average balances were driven by declines in U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed, U.S. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Treasury and foreign sovereign securities, partially offset by an increase in U.S. Government sponsored mortgage-backed securities. 

Commercial loans Interest income was lower during 2021 due to lower average balances and lower yields reflecting the impact of lower market rates on variable rate loans. Lower average balances were driven primarily by the impact of our efforts to improve returns through disciplined lending, paydowns and lower demand from clients reflecting increased capital markets activity. 

Consumer loans Interest income decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower yields reflecting the impact of lower market rates on residential mortgage loans, home equity mortgage loans and other consumer loans. Also contributing to the decrease in interest income, to a lesser extent, were lower average balances driven by declines in credit card receivables and home equity mortgage loans. 

Other Lower interest income during 2021 was due primarily to lower average cash collateral balances. 

Deposits Interest expense decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower rates paid reflecting the impact of lower market rates and a shift in mix to lower cost deposits. Also contributing to the decrease in interest expense, to a lesser extent, were lower average balances driven by declines in time deposits and deposits from affiliates which were partially offset by higher commercial deposits as our clients increased their deposits in response to the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and improved economic conditions. 

Short-term borrowings Interest expense was lower during 2021 due to lower rates paid reflecting the impact of lower market rates and lower average borrowings driven by a decline in securities sold under repurchase agreements. 

Long-term debt Lower interest expense during 2021 was due to lower rates paid reflecting the impact of lower market rates on variable rate borrowings and lower average borrowings. 

Tax liabilities and other Interest expense was lower during 2021 driven by lower rates paid reflecting the impact of lower market rates on securities sold, not yet repurchased. 

Provision for Credit Losses &#160; As discussed further in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, beginning January 1, 2020, the provision for credit losses is recognized based on lifetime ECL for loans, off-balance sheet credit exposures, securities held-to-maturity and certain other financial assets measured at amortized cost, as well as credit losses on securities available-for-sale. Prior to January 1, 2020, the provision for credit losses was recognized based on probable incurred losses for loans only while debt securities were assessed for other-than-temporary impairment and credit loss expense for probable incurred losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures was separately recorded as a component of other expense within operating expenses as discussed below. As a result, 2021 and 2020 amounts in the table below are not directly comparable to the 2019 period. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The following table summarizes the components of the provision for credit losses: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Loans: Commercial loans: Real estate, including construction $ (72) $ 116 $ 37 Business and corporate banking (107) 274 62 Global banking (174) 149 1 Other commercial (3) 2 (6) Total commercial loans (356) 541 94 Consumer loans: Residential mortgages 21 &#160; 55 (3) Home equity mortgages (18) 6 (2) Credit cards (66) 107 101 Other consumer (18) 27 5 Total consumer loans (81) 195 101 Total loans (437) 736 195 Securities held-to-maturity &#8212; &#160; (1) &#8212; Other financial assets measured at amortized cost 1 &#160; (2) &#8212; Securities available-for-sale &#8212; &#160; (2) &#8212; 

Off-balance sheet credit exposures (1) 

(134) 79 &#8212; Total provision for credit losses $ (570) $ 810 $ 195 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) As discussed below, prior to January 1, 2020, credit loss expense for off-balance sheet credit exposures was recorded in other expense. 

Our provision for credit losses decreased $1,380 million during 2021 due to a lower provision for credit losses on both our commercial and consumer loan portfolios as well as a lower provision for credit losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures. 

The provision for credit losses on our commercial loan portfolio decreased $897 million during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was driven by improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL, improvements in credit conditions associated with certain clients and declines in credit reserves for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and large loan exposures. Also contributing to the release in credit reserves in 2021 were client paydowns and loan sales, including the transfer of certain commercial real estate loans to held for sale during the third quarter of 2021 which resulted in a release of credit loss reserves and a reduction to the provision for credit losses of approximately $24 million, including a release of credit reserves for risk factors associated with higher risk industry exposures. In 2020, the loss provision was driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and provisions for risk factors associated with higher risk client and industry exposures, large loan exposures and economic uncertainty. 

The provision for credit losses on our consumer loan portfolio decreased $276 million during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was driven by the impact of our decision to exit our mass market retail banking business as well as our remaining retail credit card portfolio which resulted in a release of credit loss reserves and a reduction to the provision for credit losses of approximately $100 million during the second quarter of 2021. Also contributing to the release in credit reserves in 2021 were improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL and declines in credit reserves for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and forbearance accounts. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was partially offset by loss provisions recorded during the fourth quarter of 2021 associated with certain mortgage loans that were transferred to held for sale and a portfolio of Premier credit cards that were transferred back to held for investment as discussed further in Note 8, "Allowance for Credit Losses," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In 2020, the loss provision was driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL and higher dollars of delinquency, as well as provisions for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and forbearance accounts. Also contributing to the loss provision in 2020 was growth in personal 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

loan balances due to new product promotions. The loss provision in 2020 was partially offset by a decline in credit card balances. 

The provision for credit losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures decreased $213 million during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 resulted from improved economic conditions consistent with commercial loans as discussed above. The loss provision in 2020 resulted from the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic consistent with commercial loans as discussed above. 

Our methodology and accounting policies related to the allowance for credit losses are presented under the caption "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in this MD&#38;A and in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. See "Credit Quality" in this MD&#38;A for additional discussion on the allowance for credit losses associated with our various loan portfolios. 

Other Revenues The following table summarizes the components of other revenues: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Credit card fees, net $ 37 &#160; $ 38 $ 67 Trust and investment management fees 108 &#160; 132 132 Other fees and commissions 652 &#160; 567 619 Trading revenue 24 &#160; 273 591 Other securities gains, net 73 &#160; 137 88 Servicing and other fees from HSBC affiliates 321 &#160; 347 354 Gain (loss) on instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives 35 &#160; 34 (13) Other income (loss): Valuation of loans held for sale (14) (22) 1 Residential mortgage banking revenue 20 &#160; 11 1 Insurance 6 &#160; 7 12 Gains on extinguishment of debt, net &#8212; &#160; 12 70 Miscellaneous income (loss) (25) (1) (68) Total other income (loss) (13) 7 16 Total other revenues $ 1,237 &#160; $ 1,535 $ 1,854 ##TABLE_END

Credit card fees, net Credit card fees, net were relatively flat during 2021 as higher cost estimates associated with our credit rewards program reflecting an increase in estimated customer redemption rates was largely offset by higher interchange fees driven by higher customer spending reflecting improved economic conditions compared with 2020. 

Trust and investment management fees Trust and investment management fees declined during 2021 due primarily to higher liquidity fund fee waivers driven by the impact of low market interest rates. The decline was partially offset by higher average assets under management reflecting new money growth primarily driven by a few large private banking clients as well as positive market performance. 

Other fees and commissions Other fees and commissions increased during 2021 due primarily to higher fees from loan syndication, wire transfers and other account services reflecting improved economic conditions compared with 2020. See Note 23, "Fee Income from Contracts with Customers," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information including a summary of the components of other fees and commissions. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Trading revenue Trading revenue is generated by participation in the foreign exchange, precious metals, rates, credit and equities markets. The following table presents trading revenue by business activity. Not included in the table below is the impact of net interest income associated with trading securities which is an integral part of trading activities' overall performance. Certain derivatives, such as total return swaps, are economically hedged by holding the underlying interest bearing referenced assets. Net interest income related to trading activities is recorded in net interest income in the consolidated statement of income (loss). Trading revenue related to the mortgage banking business is included as a component of other income (loss). During the first quarter of 2021, we changed our presentation for the components of trading revenue to provide a more detailed view. As a result, we have reclassified prior year amounts in order to conform to the current year presentation. 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Business Activities: Foreign Exchange $ 193 &#160; $ 322 $ 418 Metals 50 &#160; 132 117 Debt Markets &#8212; &#160; 13 36 Securities Financing (157) (120) 12 Markets Treasury 18 &#160; (17) 16 Legacy structured credit products (28) 10 (21) Other trading (1) 

(52) (67) 13 Total trading revenue $ 24 &#160; $ 273 $ 591 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Includes trading revenue related to Global Banking and Equities as well as trading revenue associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan, including trading losses of $35 million and $67 million recorded during 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Trading revenue decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower revenue in Foreign Exchange, Metals, Legacy structured credit products, Securities Financing and Debt Markets. Revenue was lower in Foreign Exchange and Metals as market volatility driven by the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in increased trading opportunities in 2020. Lower revenue in Foreign Exchange and Debt Markets also reflects the impact of our decision to exit or transfer certain derivatives as part of our Restructuring Plan which resulted in lower revenue from emerging markets rate products and interest rate swaps. Revenue was lower in Legacy structured credit products reflecting the unwind of our remaining business activities, including a loss of approximately $31 million recorded during the third quarter of 2021, as well as the impact of a structured note vehicle that was unwound during the third quarter of 2020 which was a key contributor to the valuation gain recorded in 2020. Lower revenue in Securities Financing was due to higher losses related to swaps in prime brokerage. These decreases were partially offset by higher revenue in Markets Treasury due to the improved performance of economic hedge positions used to manage interest rate risk and lower Other trading losses associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan. 

Other securities gains, net We maintain securities portfolios as part of our balance sheet diversification and risk management strategies. During 2021 and 2020, we sold $10,324 million and $12,197 million, respectively, of primarily U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed and U.S. Government sponsored mortgage-backed securities as part of a continuing strategy to maximize returns while balancing the securities portfolio for risk management purposes. Other securities gains, net decreased during 2021 reflecting lower net gains from the sales of U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities as well as the impact of lower sales activity. The gross realized gains and losses from sales of securities, which are included as a component of other securities gains, net above, are summarized in Note 6, "Securities," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Servicing and other fees from HSBC affiliates Servicing and other fees from HSBC affiliates decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower cost reimbursements associated with shared services performed on behalf of other HSBC affiliates, including internal audit, as well as lower sales commissions from HSBC Bank plc. 

Gain (loss) on instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives We have elected to apply fair value option accounting to certain commercial loans held for sale, certain student loans, certain of our own fixed-rate debt issuances and all of our hybrid instruments issued, including structured notes and deposits. We also use derivatives to economically hedge the interest rate and other risks associated with certain financial assets and liabilities for which fair value option accounting has been elected. Gain (loss) on instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives was relatively flat during 2021 as favorable fair value adjustments on loans driven by a loss recorded in 2020 on certain commercial loans held for sale which were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as favorable movements related to the economic hedging of interest rate and other risks within our hybrid instruments were largely offset by unfavorable movements related to the economic hedging of interest rate risk within our own debt. See Note 17, "Fair Value Option," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information including a breakout of these amounts by individual component. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Other income (loss) &#160; Other income (loss) was lower during 2021 due primarily to the non-recurrence of miscellaneous gains recorded in 2020, including $18 million of gains on sales of certain owned retail branch properties and a $12 million gain on extinguishment of time deposits reflecting early client withdrawals. Also contributing to the decrease was lower income associated with bank owned life insurance and $8 million of transaction costs recorded in 2021 directly associated with the branch disposal group held for sale. These decreases were partially offset by a net gain from loan sales in 2021 compared with a loss in 2020, higher gains from equity investments, higher residential mortgage banking revenue driven by higher gains on sales of residential mortgage loans and lower valuation losses on loans held for sale. 

Operating Expenses The following table summarizes the components of operating expenses: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (dollars are in millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 665 &#160; $ 767 $ 822 Support services from HSBC affiliates: Fees paid to HTSU 1,061 &#160; 1,066 1,153 Fees paid to HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. ("HMUS") 118 &#160; 89 100 Fees paid to other HSBC affiliates 441 &#160; 396 385 Total support services from HSBC affiliates 1,620 &#160; 1,551 1,638 Occupancy expense, net 248 &#160; 281 197 Goodwill impairment &#8212; &#160; 784 365 Other expenses: Equipment and software 111 &#160; 95 83 Marketing 46 &#160; 64 133 Outside services 75 &#160; 61 62 Professional fees 76 &#160; 80 69 Off-balance sheet credit reserves (1) 

&#8212; &#160; &#8212; 8 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") assessment fees 63 &#160; 71 24 Expense related to legal matters (excluding attorney's fees) &#8212; &#160; 68 54 Miscellaneous 74 &#160; 59 46 Total other expenses 445 &#160; 498 479 Total operating expenses $ 2,978 &#160; $ 3,881 $ 3,501 Personnel - average number 3,713 &#160; 4,371 4,694 Efficiency ratio 89.7 &#160; % 104.6 % 88.3 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) As discussed above, beginning January 1, 2020, credit loss expense for off-balance sheet credit exposures is recorded in the provision for credit losses. 

Salaries and employee benefits Salaries and employee benefits expense decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower salaries expense driven by staff reductions related to our Restructuring Plan as well as lower severance costs. 

Support services from HSBC affiliates Servicing and other fees from HSBC affiliates increased during 2021 due primarily to higher allocated restructuring related costs from HTSU and other HSBC affiliates. In 2021, we recorded $139 million of allocated restructuring related costs from HTSU and other HSBC affiliates, primarily support service project costs and severance costs, compared with $80 million of allocated restructuring related costs in 2020. Also contributing to the increase were higher cost allocations from HMUS associated with Global Banking activities reflecting the impacts of higher staff costs and an updated service level agreement. These increases were partially offset by lower cost allocations from our technology and support service functions driven by the execution of our Restructuring Plan. A summary of the services received from various HSBC affiliates is included in Note 24, "Related Party Transactions," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Occupancy expense, net Occupancy expense, net was lower during 2021 due primarily to lower operating lease costs and depreciation expense driven by the execution of our Restructuring Plan, partially offset by higher lease impairment and other related costs. In 2021, we recorded $138 million of lease impairment and other related costs related to the exit of certain branches and office space as part of our Restructuring Plan compared with $121 million of lease impairment and other related costs in 2020. See Note 3, "Strategic Initiatives," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Goodwill impairment Reflects a goodwill impairment charge of $784 million recorded in 2020 representing the entire amount of goodwill allocated to our previously separate Retail Banking and Wealth Management and Private Banking reporting units. For additional discussion of the results of our goodwill impairment testing, see Note 11, "Goodwill," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Other expenses Other expenses were lower during 2021 due primarily to lower expense related to legal matters as well as declines in marketing expense, market data costs and deposit insurance assessment fees. These decreases were partially offset by lower levels of expense capitalization related to internally developed software, higher outside services expense and higher capitalized software amortization expense. 

Efficiency ratio Our efficiency ratio improved during 2021 due primarily to lower operating expenses driven by the non-recurrence of a goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2020, partially offset by lower other revenues driven by lower trading revenue as well as lower net interest income. 

Income tax expense (benefit) Our effective tax rate was 24.6 percent in 2021 compared with (4.3) percent in 2020 and 58.1 percent in 2019. For a complete analysis of the differences between effective tax rates based on the provision for income taxes attributable to pretax income (loss) and the statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate, see Note 18, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

Segment Results &#8211; Group Reporting Basis 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

We have distinct businesses, which are aligned with HSBC's global business strategy: Wealth and Personal Banking ("WPB"), Commercial Banking ("CMB"), and Global Banking and Markets ("GBM"). These businesses and a Corporate Center ("CC") serve as our reportable segments with the exception of GBM. Our GBM business is comprised of three distinct operating segments: Global Banking ("GB"), Markets and Securities Services ("MSS"), and Global Banking and Markets Other ("GBM Other"), which are separately reported as discussed further below. See Item 1, "Business," in this Form 10-K for a description of our segments, including a discussion of the main business activities of the segments and a summary of their products and services. 

During the fourth quarter of 2021, we implemented a change to our internal management reporting to align with changes to the governance structure and how we assess business performance of our GBM business, which is now being reported and managed as three separate operating segments: GB, MSS and GBM Other. As a result, we have aligned our segment reporting to reflect this change for all periods presented. 

See Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a table that summarizes the impact of this change on reported segment profit (loss) before tax, total assets and total deposits as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. 

As of January 1, 2021, we also implemented a change to our internal management reporting to prospectively report assets related to our active branches within our WPB segment, which were historically reported within our CC segment. As a result, lease impairment and other related costs associated with these branches is recorded within our WPB segment beginning in 2021. Prior periods were not impacted by this change. 

There have been no additional changes in the basis of our segmentation as compared with the presentation in our 2020 Form 10-K. 

Net interest income of each segment represents the difference between actual interest earned on assets and interest incurred on liabilities of the segment, adjusted for a funding charge or credit that includes both interest rate and liquidity components. Segments are charged a cost to fund assets (e.g. customer loans) and receive a funding credit for funds provided (e.g. customer deposits) based on equivalent market rates that incorporate both repricing (interest rate risk) and tenor (liquidity) characteristics. The objective of these charges/credits is to transfer interest rate risk to one centralized unit in Markets Treasury. Markets Treasury income statement and balance sheet results are allocated to each of the global businesses based upon tangible equity levels and levels of any surplus liabilities. 

Certain other revenue and operating expense amounts are also apportioned among the business segments based upon the benefits derived from this activity or the relationship of this activity to other segment activity. These inter-segment transactions have not been eliminated, and we generally account for them as if they were with third parties. 

We report financial information to our parent, HSBC, in accordance with HSBC Group accounting and reporting policies, which apply IFRSs as issued by the IASB. As a result, our segment results are prepared and presented using financial information prepared on the Group Reporting Basis as operating results are monitored and reviewed, trends are evaluated and decisions about allocating resources, such as employees, are primarily made on this basis. We continue, however, to monitor capital adequacy and report to regulatory agencies on a U.S. GAAP basis. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

There have been no changes in the measurement of segment profit as compared with the presentation in our 2020 Form 10-K. 

The significant differences between U.S. GAAP and the Group Reporting Basis as they impact our results are summarized in Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

2020 compared with 2019 See "Segment Results - Group Reporting Basis" in our 2020 Form 10-K for a discussion of our segment results for 2020 compared with 2019, with the exception of the three reportable operating segments comprising our GBM business which is discussed below. See below for a discussion of our segment results for 2021 compared with 2020. 

Wealth and Personal Banking The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our WPB segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest income $ 801 &#160; $ 837 $ 1,018 Other operating income 303 &#160; 368 330 

Total operating income (1) 

1,104 &#160; 1,205 1,348 Expected credit losses (21) 189 115 Net operating income 1,125 &#160; 1,016 1,233 Operating expenses 1,221 &#160; 2,203 1,645 Loss before tax $ (96) $ (1,187) $ (412) ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table summarizes the impact of key activities on the total operating income of our WPB segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Retail banking current accounts, savings and deposits $ 413 &#160; $ 503 $ 663 Retail banking mortgages, credit cards and other personal lending 306 &#160; 306 240 Wealth and asset management products 78 &#160; 96 96 Private banking 178 &#160; 169 204 

Retail business banking and other (2) 

129 &#160; 131 145 Total operating income $ 1,104 &#160; $ 1,205 $ 1,348 ##TABLE_END

(2) Includes cost reimbursements associated with activities performed on behalf of other HSBC affiliates and allocated Markets Treasury revenue. 

During the second quarter of 2021, as part of our Restructuring Plan we made the decision to exit our mass market retail banking business, including our Personal and Advance propositions as well as retail business banking, and focus on the banking and wealth management needs of globally-connected affluent and high net worth clients through our Premier, Jade or Private Banking propositions. In conjunction with the execution of this strategy, we have entered into definitive sale agreements with third parties to sell 90 of our retail branches along with substantially all residential mortgage, unsecured and retail business banking loans and all deposits in our branch network not associated with our Premier, Jade and Private Banking customers. Certain assets under management associated with our mass market retail banking business which are managed by an affiliate will also be transferred to one of the buyers. We completed the sale of the disposal group in February 2022. We will continue to offer deposits and retail loan products to our Premier, Jade and Private Banking customers. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we also sold a portfolio of mass market retail credit cards as discussed further below. 

Our WPB segment reported a lower loss before tax during 2021 due primarily to lower operating expenses driven by lower impairment charges. In 2021, we recorded $67 million of lease impairment and other related costs primarily related to the exit of certain branches as part of our Restructuring Plan. In 2020, we recorded impairment charges, including a goodwill impairment charge, representing the entire amount of remaining goodwill previously recorded, and an impairment charge related to the write-off of all the capitalized software associated with our WPB business segment, which collectively totaled $900 million. Also contributing to the lower loss before tax during 2021 was lower expected credit losses, partially offset by lower other operating income and lower net interest income. 

Net interest income decreased during 2021 due to lower deposit spreads reflecting the impact of lower market rates, partially offset by improved spreads on residential mortgage loans. 

Other operating income decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower investment management fees driven by higher liquidity fund fee waivers reflecting the impact of low market interest rates, lower allocated Markets Treasury revenue and lower residential mortgage banking revenue driven by unfavorable fair value adjustments on residential mortgage loans held for trading. Also contributing to the decrease were $8 million of transaction costs recorded in 2021 directly associated with the 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

branch disposal group held for sale. These decreases were partially offset by a net gain of $22 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2021 on the sale of a portfolio of mass market retail credit cards. 

Expected credit losses improved during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was due to improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating ECL and lower loss estimates for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty as well as declines in credit card balances. In 2020, the loss provision was driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating ECL and higher dollars of delinquency, as well as higher loss estimates for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and forbearance accounts. Also contributing to the loss provision in 2020 was growth in personal loan balances due to new product promotions. The loss provision in 2020 was partially offset by a decline in credit card balances. 

Excluding the impairment charges discussed above, operating expenses remained lower during 2021 driven by the execution of our Restructuring Plan which resulted in declines in staff costs, operating lease costs, marketing expense, severance costs and cost allocations from our technology and support service functions. Also contributing to the decrease were lower deposit insurance assessment fees. 

Client Assets The following table provides information regarding private banking client assets during 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in millions) Client assets at beginning of period $ 44,104 &#160; $ 39,295 Net new money (outflows) 9,899 &#160; (532) Value change 12,178 &#160; 5,341 Client assets at end of period $ 66,181 &#160; $ 44,104 ##TABLE_END

The increase in client assets during 2021 reflects new money growth primarily driven by a few large clients as well as positive market performance. 

Commercial Banking The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our CMB segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest income $ 771 &#160; $ 821 $ 829 Other operating income 297 &#160; 234 239 

Total operating income (1) 

1,068 &#160; 1,055 1,068 Expected credit losses (26) 293 55 Net operating income 1,094 &#160; 762 1,013 Operating expenses 581 &#160; 587 581 Profit before tax $ 513 &#160; $ 175 $ 432 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table summarizes the impact of key activities on the total operating income of our CMB segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Lending and Transaction Management $ 466 &#160; $ 464 $ 457 Global Liquidity and Cash Management ("GLCM"), current accounts and savings deposits 399 &#160; 429 458 Global Trade and Receivables Finance ("GTRF") 64 &#160; 56 53 

Investment banking products and other (2) 

139 &#160; 106 100 Total operating income $ 1,068 &#160; $ 1,055 $ 1,068 ##TABLE_END

(2) Includes allocated Markets Treasury revenue. 

Our CMB segment reported a higher profit before tax during 2021 due primarily to lower expected credit losses and, to a lesser extent, higher other operating income. These increases were partially offset by lower net interest income. 

Net interest income decreased during 2021 due to lower deposit spreads reflecting the impact of lower market rates and lower average loan balances, partially offset by higher average deposit balances, improved loan spreads and higher earnings on capital. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Other operating income increased during 2021 due primarily to higher fees from loan syndication and account services as well as a net gain from loan sales in 2021 compared with a loss in 2020. These increases were partially offset by lower allocated Markets Treasury revenue. 

Expected credit losses improved during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was driven by improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating ECL as well as client paydowns, partially offset by a higher loss estimate for risk factors associated with real estate industry loan exposures. In 2020, the loss provision was driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating ECL, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and higher loss estimates for risk factors associated with higher risk client and industry exposures. 

Operating expenses decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower branch network costs, partially offset by higher cost allocations from our support service functions. 

Global Banking and Markets Our GBM business is comprised of three reportable operating segments: 

Global Banking The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our GB segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest income $ 315 &#160; $ 369 $ 513 Other operating income 409 &#160; 351 415 

Total operating income (1) 

724 &#160; 720 928 Expected credit losses (157) 139 1 Net operating income 881 &#160; 581 927 Operating expenses 407 &#160; 372 383 Profit before tax $ 474 &#160; $ 209 $ 544 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table summarizes the impact of key activities on the total operating income of our GB segment. For purposes of the discussion below the table, total operating income is referred to as revenue. 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in millions) GLCM $ 363 &#160; $ 398 $ 481 Capital Markets 210 &#160; 163 228 Credit and Lending 91 &#160; 76 104 GTRF 48 &#160; 53 53 

GB Other (2) 

12 &#160; 30 62 Total operating income $ 724 &#160; $ 720 $ 928 ##TABLE_END

(2) Includes net interest income on capital held in the business and not assigned to products as well as revenue associated with credit default swap protection, certain credit-linked structured notes and loan sales. 

2021 profit before tax compared with 2020 Our GB segment reported a higher profit before tax during 2021 due to lower expected credit losses and higher other operating income, partially offset by lower net interest income and higher operating expenses. 

Revenue increased during 2021 due to higher revenue in Capital Markets, and Credit and Lending, partially offset by lower revenue in GLCM and GB Other. Higher revenue in Capital Markets, and Credit and Lending was due to higher collections of nonaccrual loans, improved loan spreads and, in Capital Markets, higher loan syndication fees, partially offset by lower net interest income from lower average loan balances driven by the impact of our efforts to improve returns through disciplined lending as well as lower demand from clients reflecting increased capital markets activity. Lower revenue in GLCM was due to lower net interest income driven by lower deposit spreads reflecting the impact of lower market rates, partially offset by the impact of higher average deposit balances as well as higher account service fees. Lower revenue in GB Other was due primarily to lower earnings on capital. 

Expected credit losses improved during 2021 reflecting a release in credit loss reserves compared with a loss provision in 2020. The release in credit reserves in 2021 was driven by improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating ECL and improvements in credit conditions associated with certain clients as well as a lower loss estimate for risk factors associated with oil and gas industry loan exposures. Client paydowns and loan sales also contributed to the release in credit reserves in 2021. In 2020, the loss provision was driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating ECL, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and higher loss estimates for risk factors associated with oil and gas industry loan exposures and higher risk client exposures. 

Operating expenses increased during 2021 due primarily to higher cost allocations from our support service functions, including higher cost allocations from HMUS reflecting the impact of higher staff costs and an updated service level agreement. 

2020 profit before tax compared with 2019 Our GB segment reported a lower profit before tax during 2020 due to lower net interest income, higher expected credit losses and lower other operating income, partially offset by lower operating expenses. 

Revenue decreased during 2020 due primarily to lower revenue in GLCM, Capital Markets, Credit and Lending, and GB Other. Revenue was lower in GLCM due to lower net interest income driven by lower deposit spreads reflecting the impact of lower market rates, partially offset by the impact of higher average deposit balances. Lower revenue in Capital Markets was due to lower fees from loan syndication and lower average loan balances. Lower average loan balances were driven by the impact of our efforts to improve returns through disciplined lending as well as lower demand reflecting increased capital markets activity by clients coupled with economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Credit and Lending revenue was lower due to lower fees from loan commitments and lower net interest income from spread compression. GB Other revenue was lower due to lower earnings on capital and higher losses on sales of loans. 

Expected credit losses increased during 2020 driven by the deterioration of economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in a worsening of the economic forecasts used for calculating ECL, downgrades reflecting weakness in the financial condition of certain clients and higher loss estimates for risk factors associated with oil and gas industry loan exposures and higher risk client exposures. 

Operating expenses were lower during 2020 due primarily to lower incentive compensation expense, lower salaries expense and lower cost allocations from our support service functions. These decreases were partially offset by higher deposit insurance assessment fees. 

Markets and Securities Services The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our MSS segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest income $ 47 &#160; $ 91 $ 91 Other operating income 318 &#160; 454 358 

Total operating income (1) 

365 &#160; 545 449 Expected credit losses &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#8212; Net operating income 365 &#160; 545 449 Operating expenses 275 &#160; 351 317 Profit before tax $ 90 &#160; $ 194 $ 132 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table summarizes the impact of key activities on the total operating income of our MSS segment. For purposes of the discussion below the table, total operating income is referred to as revenue. 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (dollars are in millions) Foreign Exchange and Metals $ 237 &#160; $ 481 $ 277 Debt Markets 1 &#160; 7 61 Securities Financing 43 &#160; 33 23 Equities 56 &#160; 33 25 Securities Services 26 &#160; 28 26 

MSS Other (2) 

(14) (47) 13 Credit and funding valuation adjustments 16 &#160; 10 24 Total MSS $ 365 &#160; $ 545 $ 449 ##TABLE_END

(2) Includes revenue associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan, including trading losses of $13 million and $67 million recorded during 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

2021 profit before tax compared with 2020 Our MSS segment reported a lower profit before tax during 2021 due to lower other operating income and lower net interest income, partially offset by lower operating expenses. 

Revenue decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower revenue in Foreign Exchange and Metals, partially offset by higher revenue in MSS Other, Equities and Securities Financing. Lower revenue in Foreign Exchange and Metals was due to market volatility driven by the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in increased trading opportunities in 2020 as well as the impact of our 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

decision to exit or transfer certain derivatives as part of our Restructuring Plan which resulted in lower revenue from emerging markets rate products. Higher revenue in MSS Other was due to lower trading losses associated with the exit of certain derivatives as part of our Restructuring Plan. Higher revenue in Equities was driven by higher performance fees associated with trading activity booked on the balance sheet of HSBC Bank plc. Higher revenue in Securities Financing was due to increased balance sheet deployment in prime brokerage. 

Operating expenses decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower expense related to legal matters, lower salaries expense and lower market data costs. 

2020 profit before tax compared with 2019 Our MSS segment reported a higher profit before tax during 2020 due to higher other operating income, partially offset by higher operating expenses. 

Revenue increased during 2020 due primarily to higher revenue in Foreign Exchange and Metals, and to a lesser extent, Securities Financing. Revenue was higher in Foreign Exchange and Metals due primarily to market volatility driven by the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in increased trading opportunities as well as higher revenue from emerging markets rate products. Higher revenue in Securities Financing was due to higher returns in prime brokerage. These increases were partially offset by trading losses recorded in MSS Other in 2020 associated with the exit of certain derivatives as part of our Restructuring Plan and lower revenue in Debt Markets reflecting the impact of our decision to exit or transfer certain derivatives as part of our Restructuring Plan as well as lower revenue from structuring and collateralized financing related activity. Credit and funding valuation adjustments were also unfavorable, attributable primarily to lower gains from credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets reflecting the impact of market volatility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the impact of lower market rates. 

Operating expenses were higher during 2020 due primarily to higher expense related to legal matters, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense, lower salaries expenses and lower cost allocations from our support service functions. 

Global Banking and Markets Other The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our GBM Other segment. For purposes of the discussion below the table, total operating income is referred to as revenue. 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest expense $ (24) $ (62) $ (83) Other operating income 100 &#160; 165 127 Total operating income 76 &#160; 103 44 Expected credit losses (1) 1 &#8212; Net operating income 77 &#160; 102 44 Operating expenses 98 &#160; 118 149 Loss before tax $ (21) $ (16) $ (105) ##TABLE_END

2021 profit before tax compared with 2020 Our GBM Other segment reported a higher loss before tax during 2021 due to lower other operating income, partially offset by lower net interest expense and lower operating expenses. 

Revenue decreased during 2021 due to lower allocated Markets Treasury revenue, partially offset by lower liquidity charges and lower corporate funding charges. 

Operating expenses decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower cost allocations from our support service functions, lower severance costs and lower allocated Markets Treasury expense. 

2020 profit before tax compared with 2019 Our GBM Other segment reported a lower loss before tax during 2020 due to higher other operating income, lower operating expenses and lower net interest expense. 

Revenue increased during 2020 due to lower corporate funding charges, higher allocated Markets Treasury revenue and the non-recurrence of a loss on extinguishment of long-term debt recorded in 2019, partially offset by higher liquidity charges and lower cost reimbursements. 

Operating expenses decreased during 2020 due primarily to lower cost allocations from our support service functions, partially offset by higher severance costs. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Corporate Center The following table summarizes the Group Reporting Basis results for our CC segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Net interest expense $ (6) $ (30) $ (65) Other operating income 3 &#160; 129 68 

Total operating income (expense) (1) 

(3) 99 3 Expected credit losses &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#8212; Net operating income (expense) (3) 99 3 Operating expenses 316 &#160; 403 238 Loss before tax $ (319) $ (304) $ (235) ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) The following table summarizes the impact of key activities on the total operating income (expense) of our CC segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 &#160; (in millions) Legacy structured credit products $ (29) $ 11 $ (31) 

Other (2) 

26 &#160; 88 34 Total operating income (expense) $ (3) $ 99 $ 3 ##TABLE_END

(2) Includes a trading loss of $22 million recorded during 2021 associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan. 

Our CC segment reported a higher loss before tax during 2021 due to lower other operating income, partially offset by lower operating expenses and lower net interest expense. 

Net interest expense was lower during 2021 driven by lower retained liquidity charges and lower net interest expense from legacy structured credit products. 

Other operating income decreased during 2021 due to lower revenue in legacy structured credit products reflecting the unwind of our remaining business activities, including a loss of approximately $31 million recorded during the third quarter of 2021, as well as the impact of a structured note vehicle that was unwound during the third quarter of 2020 which was a key contributor to the valuation gain recorded in 2020. Also contributing to the decrease was a trading loss of $22 million recorded in the third quarter of 2021 associated with the exit of certain derivative contracts as part of our Restructuring Plan, unfavorable movements related to the economic hedging of interest rate risk within our own debt, lower cost reimbursements associated with shared services performed on behalf of other HSBC affiliates, including internal audit, and the non-recurrence of $18 million of gains recorded in 2020 on the sales of certain owned retail branch properties. These decreases were partially offset by higher gains from equity investments. 

Operating expenses decreased during 2021 due primarily to lower lease impairment and other related costs. In 2021, we recorded lease impairment and other related costs of $65 million primarily associated with the exit of certain office space. In 2020, we recorded lease impairment and other related costs of $185 million related to the initial consolidation of our retail branch network and certain office space as part of our Restructuring Plan, including an impairment charge of $55 million related to the write-off of a portion of the leasehold improvements associated with our WPB business. Also contributing to the decrease were lower cost allocations from our technology and support service functions. These decreases were partially offset by higher allocated restructuring related costs from HTSU and other HSBC affiliates, primarily support service project costs and severance costs. 

Reconciliation of Segment Results As previously discussed, segment results are reported on a Group Reporting Basis. See Note 25, "Business Segments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of our Group Reporting Basis segment results to U.S. GAAP consolidated totals. 

Credit Quality 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

In the normal course of business, we enter into a variety of transactions that involve both on and off-balance sheet credit risk. Principal among these activities is lending to various commercial, institutional, governmental and individual customers. We participate in lending activity throughout the United States and, on a limited basis, internationally. 

COVID-19 Loan Forbearance Initiatives We implemented various loan modification payment deferral programs to provide borrowers relief from the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Substantially all of the loans under these programs were not classified as TDR Loans due to our election to suspend TDR Loan classification under the CARES Act (which expired on January 1, 2022) or their short-term nature as discussed under the Interagency Statement. In addition, under the Interagency 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Statement, for COVID-19 related loan modifications in the form of a payment deferral, the borrower&#8217;s past due status was not affected during the deferral period and, if the loan was accruing at the time the relief was granted, the loan was generally not placed on nonaccrual status as long as the borrower utilized a payment deferral of six months or less. For consumer mortgage loans, when a borrower utilized a payment deferral of more than six months, the loan was generally placed on nonaccrual status and, if the loan did not meet the criteria in the CARES Act, assessed for TDR Loan classification. We did not modify our commercial loan nonaccrual policies as a result of this guidance. These COVID-19 related payment deferral programs could delay the recognition of delinquencies, nonaccrual status, and net charge-offs for those customers who may have otherwise moved into past due or nonaccrual status had such relief not been offered. See "Executive Overview," in this MD&#38;A for additional information. 

Allowance for Credit Losses / Liability for Off-Balance Sheet Credit Exposures &#160; Our accounting policies and methodologies related to the allowance for credit losses and liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures are presented under the caption "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in this MD&#38;A and in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our approach toward credit risk management is summarized under the caption "Risk Management" in this MD&#38;A. 

The following table summarizes our allowance for credit losses and the liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Allowance for credit losses: Loans: Commercial loans $ 420 &#160; $ 814 Consumer loans 27 &#160; 201 Total loans 447 &#160; 1,015 Securities held-to-maturity 1 &#160; 2 

Other financial assets measured at amortized cost (1) 

1 &#160; 2 Securities available-for-sale 1 &#160; 1 Total allowance for credit losses $ 450 &#160; $ 1,020 Liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures $ 103 &#160; $ 237 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Primarily includes accrued interest receivables and customer acceptances. 

The total allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2021 decreased $570 million or 56 percent as compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower loss estimates on both our commercial and consumer loan portfolios. 

Our commercial allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2021 decreased $394 million or 48 percent as compared with December 31, 2020 driven by improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL, improvements in credit conditions associated with certain clients and declines in credit reserves for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and large loan exposures. Also contributing to the decrease were client paydowns and loan sales, including the transfer of certain commercial real estate loans to held for sale which resulted in a release of credit loss reserves of approximately $24 million, including a release of credit reserves for risk factors associated with higher risk industry exposures. 

Our consumer allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2021 decreased $174 million or 87 percent as compared with December 31, 2020 driven by the impact of our decision to exit our mass market retail banking business as well as our remaining retail credit card portfolio which resulted in a reduction in credit loss reserves on consumer loans of approximately $156 million during the second quarter of 2021. Also contributing to the decrease were improved economic conditions which resulted in improved economic forecasts used for calculating lifetime ECL and declines in credit reserves for risk factors associated with economic uncertainty and forbearance accounts. These decreases were partially offset by increases in credit loss reserves recorded during the fourth quarter of 2021 associated with certain mortgage loans that were transferred to held for sale and a portfolio of Premier credit cards that were transferred back to held for investment as discussed further in Note 8, "Allowance for Credit Losses," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

The liability for off-balance sheet credit exposures at December 31, 2021 decreased $134 million or 57 percent as compared with December 31, 2020 resulting from improved economic conditions consistent with commercial loans as discussed above. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Analysis of the Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans 

The following table presents the allowance for credit losses on loans by major loan categories: 

##TABLE_START Amount % of Loans to Total Loans Amount % of Loans to Total Loans At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial: Real estate, including construction $ 73 &#160; 14.7 &#160; % $ 145 16.9 % Business and corporate banking 243 &#160; 25.0 &#160; 375 21.7 Global banking 100 &#160; 19.9 &#160; 287 21.8 Other commercial 4 &#160; 11.6 &#160; 7 6.6 Total commercial 420 &#160; 71.2 &#160; 814 67.0 Consumer: Residential mortgages 8 &#160; 27.7 &#160; (9) 29.6 Home equity mortgages 5 &#160; .6 &#160; 22 1.2 Credit cards 14 &#160; .4 &#160; 161 1.7 Other consumer &#8212; &#160; .1 &#160; 27 .5 Total consumer 27 &#160; 28.8 &#160; 201 33.0 Total $ 447 &#160; 100.0 &#160; % $ 1,015 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

The following table sets forth key ratios for the allowance for credit losses on loans: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 Ratio of Allowance for credit losses to: 

Loans: (1) 

Commercial: Non-affiliates 1.14 &#160; % 2.01 % Affiliates &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total commercial 1.06 &#160; 1.96 Consumer: Residential mortgages .05 &#160; (.05) Home equity mortgages 1.54 &#160; 3.03 Credit cards 6.86 &#160; 15.10 Other consumer &#8212; &#160; 8.46 Total consumer .17 &#160; .98 Total loans .80 &#160; 1.63 

Nonperforming loans: (1)(2) 

Commercial 111 &#160; % 150 % Consumer 11 &#160; 17 Total nonperforming loans 72 &#160; 59 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Ratios exclude loans held for sale as these loans are carried at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. 

(2) Represents our commercial and consumer allowance for credit losses, as appropriate, divided by the corresponding outstanding balance of total nonperforming loans held for investment. Nonperforming loans include accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more. 

See Note 8, "Allowance for Credit Losses," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a rollforward of credit losses by loan categories for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. 

The allowance for credit losses on loans as a percentage of total loans held for investment at December 31, 2021 decreased as compared with December 31, 2020 due primarily to the decrease in our allowance for credit losses for the reasons discussed above, partially offset by a decrease in total loans held for investment. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The allowance for credit losses on loans as a percentage of nonperforming loans held for investment at December 31, 2021 increased as compared with December 31, 2020 as a decrease in nonperforming loans as discussed further below in both our consumer and commercial loan portfolios outpaced the decrease in our allowance for credit losses for the reasons discussed above. 

Delinquency The following table summarizes dollars of two-months-and-over contractual delinquency and two-months-and-over contractual delinquency as a percentage of total loans, excluding loans held for sale ("delinquency ratio"). For COVID-19 related loan modifications in the form of a payment deferral, the borrower's past due status was not affected during the deferral period. 

##TABLE_START &#160; December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 

&#160; &#160; 

Delinquent Loans Delinquency Ratio Delinquent Loans Delinquency Ratio &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial $ 112 &#160; .28 &#160; % $ 109 .26 % Consumer: Residential mortgages (1)(2) 

103 &#160; .67 &#160; 404 2.20 Home equity mortgages (1)(2) 

1 &#160; .31 &#160; 25 3.44 Credit cards 3 &#160; 1.47 &#160; 28 2.63 Other consumer &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 8 2.51 Total consumer 107 &#160; .67 &#160; 465 2.27 Total $ 219 &#160; .39 &#160; $ 574 .92 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) At December 31, 2021 and 2020, consumer mortgage loan delinquency includes $24 million and $281 million, respectively, of loans that are carried at the lower of amortized cost or fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. 

(2) The following table reflects dollars of contractual delinquency and delinquency ratios for interest-only loans and adjustable rate mortgage ("ARM") loans: 

##TABLE_START &#160; December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Delinquent Loans Delinquency Ratio Delinquent Loans Delinquency Ratio &#160; (dollars are in millions) Interest-only loans $ 3 &#160; .07 &#160; % $ 34 .94 % ARM loans 67 &#160; .56 &#160; 191 1.46 ##TABLE_END

Our two-months-and-over contractual delinquency ratio decreased 53 basis points compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower dollars of delinquency in our consumer loan portfolio, partially offset by lower outstanding loan balances in both our consumer and commercial loan portfolios. 

Our commercial loan two-months-and-over contractual delinquency ratio was relatively flat compared with December 31, 2020. 

Our consumer loan two-months-and-over contractual delinquency ratio decreased 160 basis points compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower dollars of delinquency reflecting improved economic conditions and the impact of transfers of certain loans to held for sale during 2021, which collectively included $315 million of delinquent consumer loans at the time of transfer. See Note 9, "Loans Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. The decrease in the ratio was partially offset by lower outstanding loan balances. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Net Charge-offs of Loans The following table summarizes net charge-off (recovery) dollars as well as net charge-off (recovery) of loans for the period as a percentage of average loans, excluding loans held for sale, ("net charge-off ratio"): 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Net Charge-off Dollars Average Loans Net Charge-off Ratio Net Charge-off Dollars Average Loans Net Charge-off Ratio Net Charge-off Dollars Average Loans Net Charge-off Ratio &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial: Real estate, including construction 

$ &#8212; &#160; $ 9,503 &#160; &#8212; &#160; % $ 12 $ 11,263 .11 % $ &#8212; $ 11,638 &#8212; % Business and corporate banking 

25 &#160; 13,123 &#160; .19 &#160; 78 16,354 .48 42 14,058 .30 Global banking 13 &#160; 11,908 &#160; .11 &#160; 19 17,929 .11 3 20,105 .01 Other commercial &#8212; &#160; 5,656 &#160; &#8212; &#160; (1) 4,680 (.02) &#8212; 5,239 &#8212; Total commercial 38 &#160; 40,190 &#160; .09 &#160; 108 50,226 .22 45 51,040 .09 Consumer: Residential mortgages 

4 &#160; 17,074 &#160; .02 &#160; (10) 18,217 (.05) (2) 17,485 (.01) Home equity mortgages 

(1) 504 &#160; (.20) (3) 788 (.38) (1) 909 (.11) Credit cards 

81 &#160; 463 &#160; 17.48 &#160; 83 1,197 6.94 54 1,172 4.61 Other consumer 9 &#160; 191 &#160; 4.72 &#160; 10 281 3.56 3 247 1.22 Total consumer 93 &#160; 18,232 &#160; .51 &#160; 80 20,483 .39 54 19,813 .27 Total $ 131 &#160; $ 58,422 &#160; .22 &#160; $ 188 $ 70,709 .27 $ 99 $ 70,853 .14 ##TABLE_END

Our net charge-off ratio as a percentage of average loans decreased 5 basis points during 2021 due to a lower level of net charge-offs, partially offset by lower average loan balances in both our commercial and consumer loan portfolios. The lower level of net charge-offs was driven by a lower level of net charge-offs in our commercial loan portfolio due primarily to the deterioration of two corporate banking loans and loan sales in 2020 which was partially offset by a higher level of net charge-offs in our consumer loan portfolio due primarily to the impact of transfers of certain loans to held for sale during 2021, which collectively increased net charge-offs by $60 million. 

See "Credit Quality" in our 2020 Form 10-K for a discussion of our net charge-off ratio as a percentage of average loans for 2020 compared with 2019. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Nonperforming Loans The following table summarizes nonperforming loans, including nonaccrual loans and accruing loans contractually 90 days or more past due, as well as nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans, excluding loans held for sale ("nonperforming ratio"): 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Nonperforming 

Loans (1) 

Nonperforming Ratio Nonperforming 

Loans (1) 

Nonperforming Ratio &#160; (dollars are in millions) Commercial $ 380 &#160; .95 &#160; % $ 544 1.31 % Consumer: Residential mortgages (2)(3)(4) 

229 &#160; 1.48 &#160; 1,079 5.87 Home equity mortgages (2)(3) 

9 &#160; 2.77 &#160; 63 8.67 Credit cards 2 &#160; .98 &#160; 19 1.78 Other consumer &#8212; &#160; &#8212; &#160; 2 .63 Total consumer 240 &#160; 1.49 &#160; 1,163 5.68 Total $ 620 &#160; 1.11 &#160; $ 1,707 2.75 

Other real estate owned (5) 

$ 2 &#160; $ 3 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) See Note 7, "Loans," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a breakout of nonaccrual loans and accruing loans contractually 90 days or more past due. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, total nonperforming loans include $3 million and $21 million, respectively, of accruing loans contractually 90 days or more past due. 

(2) At December 31, 2021 and 2020, nonperforming consumer mortgage loans include $86 million and $375 million, respectively, of loans that are carried at the lower of amortized cost or fair value of the collateral less cost to sell. 

(3) Nonperforming consumer mortgage loans held for investment include all loans which are 90 or more days contractually delinquent as well as loans discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not re-affirmed and second lien loans where the first lien loan that we own or service is 90 or more days contractually delinquent. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, nonaccrual consumer mortgage loans also included $12 million and $590 million, respectively, of loans under COVID-19 related payment deferral programs where the borrowers utilized a payment deferral of more than six months and, as a result, have been placed on nonaccrual status. 

(4) Nonperforming consumer mortgage loans for all periods does not include guaranteed loans purchased from the Government National Mortgage Association. Repayment of these loans is predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration and as such, these loans have different risk characteristics from the rest of our customer loan portfolio. 

(5) Includes $1 million or less of commercial other real estate owned at both December 31, 2021 and 2020. 

Our nonperforming loans ratio decreased 164 basis points compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower nonperforming loans in our consumer loan portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in our commercial loan portfolio. The decrease in the ratio was partially offset by lower outstanding loan balances in both our consumer and commercial loan portfolios. 

Our commercial nonperforming loans ratio decreased 36 basis points compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower nonperforming loans driven primarily by paydowns of global banking loans and loan sales, partially offset by downgrades of two commercial real estate loans. The decrease in the ratio was partially offset by lower outstanding loan balances. 

Our consumer nonperforming loans ratio decreased 419 basis points compared with December 31, 2020 due to lower nonperforming loans reflecting the impact of transfers of certain loans to held for sale during 2021, which collectively included $698 million of nonperforming consumer loans at the time of transfer, of which $21 million were accruing loans contractually 90 days or more past due. See Note 9, "Loans Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. Lower nonperforming consumer loans also reflects improved economic conditions as well as the impact of customers exiting forbearance relief and returning to accruing status. The decrease in the ratio was partially offset by lower outstanding loan balances. 

Accrued but unpaid interest on loans placed on nonaccrual status generally is reversed and reduces current income at the time loans are so categorized. Interest income on these loans may be recognized to the extent of cash payments received. Our policies and practices for problem loan management and placing loans on nonaccrual status are summarized in Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, as updated for COVID-19 related loan modifications. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Criticized Commercial Loans The following table summarizes criticized commercial loans: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Special mention $ 1,881 &#160; $ 2,649 Substandard 2,386 &#160; 1,908 Doubtful 230 &#160; 340 Total $ 4,497 &#160; $ 4,897 ##TABLE_END

Criticized loans decreased compared with December 31, 2020 due to paydowns, loan sales and improvements in credit conditions associated with certain clients. These decreases were partially offset by downgrades, largely in commercial real estate. 

Concentration of Credit Risk A concentration of credit risk is defined as a significant credit exposure with an individual or group engaged in similar activities or affected similarly by economic conditions. We enter into a variety of transactions in the normal course of business that involve both on and off-balance sheet credit risk. Principal among these activities is lending to various commercial, institutional, governmental and individual customers throughout the United States and internationally. We manage the varying degrees of credit risk associated with on and off-balance sheet transactions through specific credit policies and procedures which provide for a strict approval, monitoring and reporting process. It is our policy to require collateral when it is deemed appropriate. Varying degrees and types of collateral are secured depending upon management's credit evaluation. 

Commercial Credit Exposure Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Commercial loans outstanding, excluding loans held for sale, and unused commercial commitments by industry are presented in the table below: 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Commercial Utilized Unused Commercial Commitments Commercial Utilized Unused Commercial Commitments &#160; (in millions) Diversified financials $ 9,177 &#160; $ 13,128 &#160; $ 7,644 $ 13,058 Real estate 5,937 &#160; 2,289 &#160; 8,323 2,163 Consumer services 3,454 &#160; 3,367 &#160; 4,619 3,692 Retailing 2,209 &#160; 5,127 &#160; 2,286 4,989 Commercial and professional services 2,093 &#160; 5,234 &#160; 1,877 5,245 Capital goods 1,833 &#160; 6,140 &#160; 1,696 5,884 Consumer durables and apparel 1,515 &#160; 2,889 &#160; 1,457 2,914 Chemicals 1,491 &#160; 3,575 &#160; 2,012 4,025 Energy 1,155 &#160; 5,852 &#160; 1,849 6,123 Technology hardware and equipment 1,032 &#160; 7,179 &#160; 1,329 7,054 Software and services 1,009 &#160; 3,354 &#160; 823 2,322 Utilities 956 &#160; 1,286 &#160; 839 1,371 Food, beverage and tobacco 787 &#160; 2,968 &#160; 612 3,030 Health care equipment and services 785 &#160; 2,359 &#160; 761 1,957 Telecommunication services 693 &#160; 569 &#160; 367 606 Transportation 581 &#160; 436 &#160; 676 398 Food and staples retailing 522 &#160; 2,003 &#160; 522 2,055 Pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life science 476 &#160; 3,471 &#160; 605 3,912 Metals and mining 432 &#160; 676 &#160; 455 1,158 Automobiles and components 237 &#160; 1,008 &#160; 365 995 

Total commercial credit exposure in top 20 industries (1) 

36,374 &#160; 72,910 &#160; 39,117 72,951 All other industries 629 &#160; 11,786 &#160; 1,382 12,449 

Total commercial credit exposure (2) 

$ 37,003 &#160; $ 84,696 &#160; $ 40,499 $ 85,400 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Based on utilization at December 31, 2021. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

(2) Excludes commercial credit exposures with affiliates. 

Geographic Concentrations The following table reflects regional exposure at December 31, 2021 and 2020 for our real estate secured loan portfolios, excluding loans held for sale: 

##TABLE_START Commercial Real Estate, including Construction Loans Residential Mortgages and Home Equity Mortgages December 31, 2021 New York State 27.5 &#160; % 32.3 &#160; % California 18.1 &#160; 43.6 &#160; North Central United States 5.8 &#160; 1.0 &#160; North Eastern United States, excluding New York State 5.0 &#160; 7.9 &#160; Southern United States 34.7 &#160; 9.8 &#160; Western United States, excluding California 8.9 &#160; 5.4 &#160; Total 100.0 &#160; % 100.0 &#160; % December 31, 2020 New York State 27.1 % 30.6 % California 25.6 45.9 North Central United States 3.9 1.4 North Eastern United States, excluding New York State 6.2 7.7 Southern United States 29.8 9.4 Western United States, excluding California 7.4 5.0 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % ##TABLE_END

Residential Mortgage Loans Our consumer loan portfolio includes the following types of loans: 

&#8226; Interest-only loans &#8211; A loan which allows a customer to pay the interest-only portion of the monthly payment for a period of time which results in lower payments during the initial loan period. 

&#8226; ARM loans &#8211; A loan which allows us to adjust pricing on the loan in line with market movements. 

The following table summarizes the balances of interest-only and ARM loans in our loan portfolios, excluding mortgages held for sale, at December 31, 2021 and 2020. Each category is not mutually exclusive and loans may appear in more than one category below. 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Interest-only residential mortgage and home equity mortgage loans $ 3,739 &#160; $ 3,597 

ARM loans (1) 

11,852 &#160; 13,038 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) During 2022 and 2023, $370 million and $573 million, respectively, of the ARM loans will experience their first interest rate reset. 

The following table summarizes the concentrations of first and second liens within the outstanding residential mortgage and home equity mortgage portfolios, excluding mortgages held for sale, at December 31, 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Closed end: First lien $ 15,469 &#160; $ 18,377 Second lien 18 &#160; 31 

Revolving (1) 

307 &#160; 696 Total $ 15,794 &#160; $ 19,104 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) A majority of revolving are second lien mortgages. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Credit Risks Associated with Derivative Contracts Credit risk associated with derivatives is measured as the net replacement cost of derivative contracts in a receivable position in the event the counterparties of such contracts fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. In managing derivative credit risk, both the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well as an estimate of the potential change in value of contracts over their remaining lives are considered. Counterparties to our derivative activities include financial institutions, central clearing parties, foreign and domestic government agencies, corporations, funds (mutual funds, hedge funds, etc.), insurance companies and private clients as well as other HSBC entities. These counterparties are subject to regular credit review by the credit risk management department. To minimize credit risk, we may enter into legally enforceable master netting agreements which reduce risk by permitting the closeout and netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon occurrence of certain events. In addition, we reduce credit risk by obtaining collateral from counterparties. The determination of the need for and the levels of collateral will differ based on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty and/or regulatory requirements. 

The total risk in a derivative contract is a function of a number of variables, such as: 

&#8226; volatility of interest rates, currencies, equity or corporate reference entity used as the basis for determining contract payments; 

&#8226; current market events or trends; 

&#8226; country risk; 

&#8226; maturity and liquidity of contracts; 

&#8226; creditworthiness of the counterparties in the transaction; 

&#8226; the existence of a master netting agreement among the counterparties; and 

&#8226; existence and value of collateral received from counterparties to secure exposures. 

The table below presents total credit risk exposure calculated using the general risk-based capital rules of the Basel III Standardized Approach which includes the net positive mark-to-market of the derivative contracts plus any adjusted potential future exposure as measured in reference to the notional amount. The regulatory capital rules recognize that bilateral netting agreements reduce credit risk and, therefore, allow for reductions of risk-weighted assets when netting requirements have been met and collateral exists. As a result, risk-weighted amounts for regulatory capital purposes are a portion of the original gross exposures. Furthermore, many contracts contain provisions that allow us to close out the transaction if the counterparty fails to post required collateral. In addition, many contracts give us the right to break the transactions earlier than the final maturity date. As a result, these contracts have potential future exposures that are often much smaller than the future exposures derived from the regulatory capital rules. 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Risk associated with derivative contracts: Total credit risk exposure $ 11,896 &#160; $ 21,624 Less: collateral held against exposure 3,894 &#160; 5,907 Net credit risk exposure $ 8,002 &#160; $ 15,717 ##TABLE_END

The table below summarizes the risk profile of the counterparties to derivative contracts with credit risk exposure, net of cash and other highly liquid collateral. The ratings presented in the table below are equivalent ratings based on our internal credit rating system. 

##TABLE_START Percent of Current Credit Risk Exposure, Net of Collateral Rating equivalent at December 31, 2021 2020 AAA to AA&#8211; 55 &#160; % 51 % A+ to A&#8211; 26 &#160; 29 BBB+ to BBB&#8211; 16 &#160; 14 BB+ to B&#8211; 3 &#160; 6 CCC+ and below &#8212; &#160; &#8212; Total 100 &#160; % 100 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Effective liquidity management is defined as ensuring we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this objective, we have guidelines that require sufficient liquidity to cover potential funding requirements in both the short- and long-term and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. Guidelines are set for the consolidated balance sheet of HSBC USA to ensure that it is a source of strength for our regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiary, as well as to address the more limited sources of liquidity available to it as a holding company. Similar guidelines are set for HSBC Bank USA to ensure that it can meet its liquidity needs in various stress scenarios. Cash flow analysis, including stress testing scenarios, forms the basis for liquidity management and contingency funding plans. See "Risk Management" in this MD&#38;A for further discussion of our approach towards liquidity and funding risk management, including information regarding the key measures employed to define, monitor and control our liquidity and funding risk. 

During 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact business and economic activity. We continue to actively monitor and control our liquidity and funding risk in accordance with HSBC policy. To date, we have not experienced any significant impact to our liquidity or funding capabilities as a result of the pandemic. 

Interest Bearing Deposits with Banks totaled $47,400 million and $14,353 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, of which $47,259 million and $13,895 million, respectively, were held with the Federal Reserve Bank. Balances may fluctuate from period to period depending upon our liquidity position at the time and our strategy for deploying liquidity. Surplus interest bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank may be deployed into securities purchased under agreements to resell or other investments depending on market conditions and the opportunity to maximize returns. 

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell totaled $10,514 million and $35,746 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Balances may fluctuate from period to period depending upon our liquidity position at the time and our strategy for deploying liquidity. 

Trading Assets includes securities totaling $18,731 million and $19,494 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Balance Sheet Review" in this MD&#38;A for further analysis and discussion on trends. 

Securities includes securities available-for-sale and securities held-to-maturity totaling $40,501 million and $49,653 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Balance Sheet Review" in this MD&#38;A for further analysis and discussion on trends. 

Short-Term Borrowings totaled $6,338 million and $4,952 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Balance Sheet Review" in this MD&#38;A for further analysis and discussion on short-term borrowing trends. 

Deposits totaled $143,032 million and $145,150 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Balance Sheet Review" in this MD&#38;A for further analysis and discussion on deposit trends. 

Estimate of Uninsured Deposits At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the estimated amount of uninsured deposits totaled $91,640 million and $91,082 million, respectively, generally representing the portion of domestic deposit accounts that exceed the FDIC insurance limit of $250,000 and amounts in any other uninsured deposit account. The amount of uninsured deposits is calculated based on the same methodologies and assumptions used for our bank regulatory reporting requirements. 

The scheduled maturities of the portion of domestic time deposits in excess of the FDIC insurance limit and time deposits that are otherwise uninsured at December 31, 2021 are summarized in the following table: 

##TABLE_START Portion of Domestic Time Deposits in Excess of the FDIC Insurance Limit 

Time Deposits that are Otherwise Uninsured (1) 

Total &#160; (in millions) 2022: 0-90 days $ 3,039 $ 145 $ 3,184 91-180 days 617 120 737 181-365 days 660 &#8212; 660 4,316 265 4,581 Thereafter 1,616 &#8212; 1,616 $ 5,932 $ 265 $ 6,197 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Represents foreign time deposits. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Long-Term Debt decreased to $17,236 million at December 31, 2021 from $19,979 million at December 31, 2020. The following table summarizes issuances and retirements of long-term debt during 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Long-term debt issued $ 7,711 &#160; $ 8,487 Long-term debt repaid (10,044) (10,427) Net long-term debt repaid $ (2,333) $ (1,940) ##TABLE_END

See "Balance Sheet Review" in this MD&#38;A for further analysis and discussion on long-term debt trends, including additional information on debt issued and repaid during 2021. 

Under our shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, we may issue certain securities including debt securities and preferred stock. We satisfy the eligibility requirements for designation as a "well-known seasoned issuer," which allows us to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity. The ability to issue under the registration statement is limited by the authority granted by the Board of Directors. During 2021, due to an anticipated decrease in utilization of the shelf registration statement, the Board of Directors approved a reduction in the amount we are authorized to issue from $25,000 million at December 31, 2020 to $20,000 million, of which $12,654 million was available at December 31, 2021. HSBC Bank USA has a $40,000 million Global Bank Note Program that provides for the issuance of subordinated and senior notes, of which $12,083 million was available at December 31, 2021. We anticipate using the Global Bank Note Program more in the future as part of our efforts designed to minimize overall funding costs while accessing diverse funding channels. 

As a member of the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, we have secured borrowing facilities which are collateralized by loans and investment securities. At December 31, 2021, long-term debt included $1,000 million of borrowings from the FHLB facility. Based upon the amounts pledged as collateral under these facilities, we have additional borrowing capacity of up to $15,057 million. 

Preferred Equity See Note 19, "Preferred Stock," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding all outstanding preferred share issues. 

Common Equity During the fourth quarter of 2021, HSBC USA received a common stock return of capital of $1.0 billion from its subsidiary, HSBC Bank USA, and paid a distribution on its common stock of $1.0 billion from surplus capital to its parent, HSBC North America. 

Capital Ratios In managing capital, we develop targets for common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, total capital to risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital to adjusted quarterly average assets (i.e., the "Tier 1 leverage ratio") and Tier 1 capital to total leverage exposure (i.e., the "supplementary leverage ratio" or "SLR"). Capital targets are reviewed at least semi-annually to ensure they reflect our business mix and risk profile, as well as real-time conditions and circumstances. The following table summarizes HSBC USA's Basel III capital ratios calculated as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START 2021 2020 

Common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (1) 

15.1 &#160; % 14.5 % 

Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets (1) 

16.3 &#160; 15.6 

Total capital to risk-weighted assets (1) 

18.5 &#160; 18.8 

Tier 1 leverage ratio (2) 

8.5 &#160; 8.6 

Supplementary leverage ratio (3)(4) 

6.6 &#160; 7.8 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 

(2) Adjusted quarterly average assets, the Tier 1 leverage ratio denominator, reflects quarterly average assets adjusted for amounts permitted to be deducted from Tier 1 capital. 

(3) Total leverage exposure, the SLR denominator, includes adjusted quarterly average assets plus certain off-balance sheet exposures. 

(4) As discussed further below, the rules that permitted banking institutions to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the denominator of their SLR expired on April 1, 2021. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that provides the option to transition in the regulatory capital impacts of the new current expected credit loss accounting standard over a five-year period. In 2020, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA elected the five-year transition option and, as a result, our capital ratios are being reported in accordance with the transition rules in the final rule. Accordingly, during 2020 and 2021, we excluded from regulatory capital the change in retained earnings resulting from adoption of the new accounting standard on January 1, 2020 as well as 25 percent of the change in the allowance for credit losses recognized between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Beginning January 1, 2022, the excluded impacts will be phased into regulatory capital over a three-year transition period and will be fully reflected at January 1, 2025. 

Also in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FRB issued final rules that permitted IHCs, such as HSBC North America, and depository institutions, such as HSBC Bank USA, to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the denominator of their SLR. The rules were designed to allow banking institutions to expand their balance sheets to accommodate increased customer deposits while continuing to provide credit to companies and households. These changes took effect in 2020 and expired on April 1, 2021. 

We manage capital in accordance with HSBC Group policy. The HSBC North America Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ("ICAAP") works in conjunction with the HSBC Group's ICAAP. The HSBC North America ICAAP applies to HSBC Bank USA and evaluates regulatory capital adequacy and capital adequacy under various stress scenarios. Our approach is to meet our capital needs for these stress scenarios locally through activities which reduce risk. To the extent that local alternatives are insufficient, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC, we would seek support from our ultimate parent. Regulatory capital requirements are based on the amount of capital required to be held, plus applicable capital buffers, as defined by regulations, and the amount of risk-weighted assets and leverage exposure, also calculated based on regulatory definitions. 

We are subject to regulatory capital rules issued by U.S. banking regulators including Basel III (the "Basel III rule"). The Basel III rule establishes minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for banks and bank holding companies ("BHCs"). HSBC North America, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA each calculate their risk-based capital requirements for credit risk under the Standardized Approach in the Basel III rule. In 2019, the FRB and the other federal banking agencies jointly finalized rules to implement the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards for large BHC and foreign banking organizations (the "Tailoring Rules"). The Tailoring Rules assign each BHC and IHC with $50 billion or more in total U.S. assets into one of five classifications (Categories I through IV, and 'other firms') based on its size and four risk-based indicators. As of December 31, 2021, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA were subject to Category III standards. As of January 1, 2022, HSBC North America met the criteria to be re-classified as a Category IV firm and, as a result of this classification change, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA expect to no longer be subject to the SLR or the countercyclical capital buffer. For additional discussion of the Basel III rule requirements, including required minimum capital ratios, as well as further discussion of the Tailoring Rules, Category IV standards and other related regulatory developments and their expected impact see Part I, "Regulation and Competition - Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements," in this Form 10-K. We continue to review the composition of our capital structure and capital buffers in light of these developments. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing The FRB requires certain U.S. top-tier BHCs and IHCs, including HSBC North America, to comply with the FRB's capital plan rule and CCAR program, as well as the supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB, and company-run stress tests as required under Dodd-Frank (collectively, "DFAST"). The company-run stress tests are forward looking exercises to assess the impact of hypothetical macroeconomic baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB (and internally developed scenarios for the company-run exercises) on the financial condition and capital adequacy of a CCAR firm over a nine quarter planning horizon. As a result of its re-classification as a Category IV firm, HSBC North America expects to no longer be subject to company-run stress testing and related disclosure requirements. Category IV firms are subject to supervisory stress testing on an every-other-year basis, although they may opt into such testing in an "off year" in order to recalibrate their stress capital buffer based on their most recent supervisory stress test. The FRB continues to supervise Category IV firms on an ongoing basis, including evaluation of the capital adequacy and capital planning processes during off-cycle years. For further discussion of capital planning and stress testing, including detail regarding the FRB's supervisory assessment as part of the CCAR process, see Part I, "Regulation and Competition - Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Requirements," in this Form 10-K. 

HSBC North America submitted its 2021 CCAR capital plan and its 2021 annual company-run DFAST results in April 2021. In July 2021, HSBC North America publicly disclosed its 2021 annual DFAST results. In June 2021, the FRB publicly disclosed its own DFAST and CCAR results and informed HSBC North America that it did not object to HSBC North America's capital plan or the planned capital distributions included in its 2021 CCAR submission. The FRB previously announced that it intended to terminate restrictions on capital distributions put in place in connection with additional stress tests that the FRB conducted to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, these additional restrictions on distributions were lifted on June 30, 2021. Under these additional restrictions, CCAR firms were allowed to make certain capital distributions in the first two quarters of 2021, provided that the distributions generally did not exceed net income. Stress testing results are based solely on hypothetical adverse stress scenarios and should not be viewed or interpreted as forecasts of expected outcomes or capital adequacy or of the actual financial condition of HSBC North America. Capital planning and stress testing for HSBC North America may impact our future capital and liquidity. 

While BHC regulatory capital compliance is generally performed at the HSBC North America level, and also separately for HSBC Bank USA, as a BHC we are required to meet minimum capital requirements imposed by the FRB. We present our 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

capital ratios, together with HSBC Bank USA's in Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

HSBC USA Inc. HSBC USA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC North America, which is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC, and the parent company of HSBC Bank USA and other subsidiaries through which we offer commercial and consumer banking products and related financial services, including derivatives, liquidity and cash management, trade finance and investment solutions. HSBC USA's main source of funds is cash received from financing activities, primarily through debt issuance to third parties and affiliates. In addition, it receives cash from affiliates by issuing preferred stock, from subsidiaries in the form of dividends and from its parent by receiving capital contributions when necessary. 

HSBC USA received cash dividends from its subsidiaries of $102 million and $121 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. During 2021 and 2020, HSBC USA did not receive any cash capital contributions from its parent, HSBC North America. 

HSBC USA has a number of obligations to meet with its available cash. It must be able to service its debt and meet the capital needs of its subsidiaries. It also must pay dividends on its preferred stock and may pay dividends on its common stock. HSBC USA paid dividends on its preferred stock totaling $77 million in both 2021 and 2020. HSBC USA did not pay any dividends on its common stock during either 2021 and 2020. We may pay dividends in the future, but will maintain our capital at levels consistent with our regulatory requirements, risk appetite and internal capital adequacy process. 

At various times, we will make capital contributions to our subsidiaries to comply with regulatory guidance, support receivable growth, maintain acceptable investment grade ratings at the subsidiary level, or provide funding for long-term facilities and technology improvements. During 2021 and 2020, HSBC USA did not make any capital contributions to its subsidiary, HSBC Bank USA. 

As of December 31, 2021, HSBC Bank USA has the ability to pay dividends under bank regulatory guidelines, as cumulative net income for 2019 through 2021 exceeded dividends attributable to this period. Any reduction of permanent capital of HSBC Bank USA would require OCC approval. See Note 26, "Retained Earnings and Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further details. In determining the extent of dividends to pay, HSBC Bank USA must also consider the effect of dividend payments on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as policy statements of federal regulatory agencies that indicate banking organizations should generally pay dividends out of current operating earnings. 

Subsidiaries At December 31, 2021, we had one major subsidiary, HSBC Bank USA. We manage substantially all of our operations through HSBC Bank USA, which contributes to the funding of our businesses primarily through receiving deposits from customers; the collection of receivable balances; issuing short-term, medium-term and long-term debt and selling residential mortgage loans. The vast majority of our domestic medium-term notes and long-term debt is marketed through subsidiaries of HSBC. Intermediate and long-term debt may also be marketed through unaffiliated investment banks. 

2022 Funding Strategy Our current estimate for funding needs and sources for 2022 are summarized in the following table: 

##TABLE_START &#160; (in billions) Increase (decrease) in funding needs: Net change in loans $ 2 Net change in short-term investments and securities (21) Net change in trading and other assets (6) Total funding needs $ (25) Increase (decrease) in funding sources: Net change in deposits $ (16) Net change in trading and other short-term liabilities (4) Net change in long-term debt (5) Total funding sources $ (25) ##TABLE_END

The above table reflects a long-term funding strategy. Daily balances fluctuate as we accommodate customer needs, while ensuring that we have liquidity in place to support the balance sheet maturity funding profile. Should market conditions deteriorate, we have contingency plans to generate additional liquidity through the sales of assets or financing transactions. We remain confident in our ability to access the market for long-term debt funding needs in the current market environment. We continue to seek well-priced and stable customer deposits. We also continue to sell new agency-eligible conforming residential mortgage loans to third parties. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

HSBC Bank USA is subject to significant restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other 'covered transactions' with HSBC USA and other affiliates. For further discussion, see Part I, "Regulation and Competition - Affiliate Transaction Restrictions," in this Form 10-K. 

See "Risk Management" in this MD&#38;A for further discussion relating to our liquidity contingency plans and our approach to liquidity and funding risk management. 

Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements comprise primarily contractual obligations to make future payments related to time deposits, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and operating lease obligations. The following table summarizes our material cash requirements outstanding as of December 31, 2021 by period due: 

##TABLE_START 

&#160; &#160; 

Due Within One Year Due After One Year Total &#160; (in millions) Time deposits $ 5,986 $ 3,524 $ 9,510 Short-term borrowings 6,338 &#8212; 6,338 

Long-term debt 

2,930 14,306 17,236 Operating lease obligations 79 263 342 Total $ 15,333 $ 18,093 $ 33,426 ##TABLE_END

These short- and long-term cash obligations could be funded primarily through cash collection on loans and receipt of deposits, supplemented by the issuance of new short-term and long-term unsecured debt or secured financing repurchase agreements. Particular emphasis is placed on our ability to fund those short-term cash obligations that are due within one year. See "2022 Funding Strategy" above for additional information. In addition to the table above, we also have contractual cash obligations related to certain binding agreements we have entered into for loan servicing, lockbox services, advertising and other services which are not material to our liquidity needs. 

Capital Expenditures We made capital expenditures of $18 million and $24 million during 2021 and 2020, respectively. In addition to these amounts, during 2021 and 2020, we capitalized $62 million and $93 million, respectively, relating to improving and modernizing our business systems. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our normal operations, we enter into credit derivatives and various off-balance sheet arrangements with affiliates and third parties. These arrangements arise principally in connection with our lending and client intermediation activities and involve primarily commitments to extend credit and, in certain cases, guarantees. 

Commitments to extend credit include arrangements whereby we are contractually obligated to extend credit in the form of loans, participations in loans, lease financing receivables, or similar transactions. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had commitments to extend credit totaling $94,124 million and $96,048 million, respectively, comprised primarily of commercial commitments and, to a lesser extent, consumer commitments. Commercial commitments comprise primarily those related to secured and unsecured loans and lines of credit. Consumer commitments comprise unused MasterCard/Visa credit card lines, where we have the right to change terms or conditions upon notification to the customer, and commitments to extend credit secured by residential properties, where we have the right to change terms or conditions, for cause, upon notification to the customer. For a summary of guarantees, including standby letters of credit and certain credit derivative transactions, as well as the contractual amounts outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Note 28, "Guarantee Arrangements, Pledged Asset and Repurchase Agreements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

The contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent our maximum possible credit exposure in the event that a counterparty draws down the full commitment amount or we are required to fulfill our maximum obligation under a guarantee. Many of these commitments and guarantees expire unused or without default. In addition, implementation of our business strategy (as described under the heading "Executive Overview - 2021 Events" in this MD&#38;A) will affect our contractual obligations over time, including with respect to consumer commitments. As a result, we believe that the contractual amount is not representative of the actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. 

Our off-balance sheet arrangements also include transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIEs"). See Note 27, "Variable Interest Entities," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of these unconsolidated VIEs. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Fair Value 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Fair Value Hierarchy Fair value measurement accounting principles establish a fair value hierarchy structure that prioritizes the inputs to determine the fair value of an asset or liability (the "Fair Value Framework"). The Fair Value Framework distinguishes between inputs that are based on observed market data and unobservable inputs that reflect market participants' assumptions. It emphasizes the use of valuation methodologies that maximize observable market inputs. For financial instruments carried at fair value, the best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market (Level 1). Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, valuation techniques are used. The majority of our valuation techniques use market inputs that are either observable or indirectly derived from and corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the financial instrument (Level 2). Because Level 1 and Level 2 instruments are determined by observable inputs, less judgment is applied in determining their fair values. In the absence of observable market inputs, the financial instrument is valued based on valuation techniques that feature one or more significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The determination of the level of fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement of an asset or a liability is classified often requires judgment and may change over time as market conditions evolve. We consider the following factors in developing the fair value hierarchy: 

&#8226; whether the asset or liability is transacted in an active market with a quoted market price; 

&#8226; the level of bid-ask spreads; 

&#8226; a lack of pricing transparency due to, among other things, complexity of the product and market liquidity; 

&#8226; whether only a few transactions are observed over a significant period of time; 

&#8226; whether the pricing quotations differ substantially among independent pricing services; 

&#8226; whether inputs to the valuation techniques can be derived from or corroborated with market data; and 

&#8226; whether significant adjustments are made to the observed pricing information or model output to determine the fair value. 

Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that the reporting entity has the ability to access for identical assets or liabilities. A financial instrument is classified as a Level 1 measurement if it is listed on an exchange or is an instrument actively traded in the over-the-counter ("OTC") market where transactions occur with sufficient frequency and volume. We regard financial instruments such as debt securities, equity securities and derivative contracts listed on the primary exchanges of a country to be actively traded. Non-exchange-traded instruments classified as Level 1 assets include securities issued by the U.S. Treasury, to-be-announced securities, non-callable securities issued by U.S. Government sponsored enterprises and certain foreign government-backed debt. 

Level 2 inputs are those that are observable either directly or indirectly but do not qualify as Level 1 inputs. We classify mortgage pass-through securities, agency and certain non-agency mortgage collateralized obligations, non-exchange-traded derivative contracts, asset-backed securities, obligations of U.S. states and political subdivisions, corporate debt securities, certain foreign government-backed debt, preferred securities, securities purchased and sold under resale and repurchase agreements, precious metals, certain loans held for sale, certain student loans, residential mortgage loans whose carrying amount was reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral and real estate owned as Level 2 measurements. Where possible, at least two quotations from independent sources are obtained based on transactions involving comparable assets and liabilities to validate the fair value of these instruments. We have established a process to understand the methodologies and inputs used by the third party pricing services to ensure that pricing information meets the fair value objective and, where appropriate, this pricing data is back-tested to market trade executions. Where significant differences arise among the independent pricing quotes and the internally determined fair value, we investigate and reconcile the differences. If the investigation results in a significant adjustment to the fair value, the instrument will be classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. In general, we have observed that there is a correlation between the credit standing and the market liquidity of a non-derivative instrument. 

Level 2 derivative instruments are generally valued based on discounted future cash flows or an option pricing model adjusted for counterparty credit risk and market liquidity. The fair value of certain derivative products is determined using valuation techniques based on inputs derived from observable indices traded in the OTC market. Appropriate control processes and procedures have been applied to ensure that the derived inputs are applied to value only those instruments that share similar risks to the relevant benchmark indices and therefore demonstrate a similar response to market factors. 

Level 3 inputs are unobservable estimates that management expects market participants would use to determine the fair value of the asset or liability. That is, Level 3 inputs incorporate market participants' assumptions about risk and the risk premium required by market participants in order to bear that risk. We develop Level 3 inputs based on the best information available in the circumstances. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, our Level 3 measurements included the following: certain structured deposits and structured notes for which the embedded derivatives have significant unobservable inputs (e.g., volatility or default 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

correlations), certain asset-backed securities, individually assessed commercial loans, mortgage servicing rights, derivatives with certain inputs which are unobservable, certain credit default swaps, swap agreements entered into in conjunction with the sales of Visa Class B Shares for which the fair value is dependent upon the final resolution of the related litigation and, at December 31, 2021, certain loans held for sale. At December 31, 2020, our level 3 measurements also included asset-backed credit default swaps with certain inputs which were unobservable. See Note 29, "Fair Value Measurements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information on Level 3 inputs. 

Level 3 Measurements The following table provides information about Level 3 assets/liabilities in relation to total assets/liabilities measured at fair value at December 31, 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (dollars are in millions) 

Level 3 assets (1)(2) 

$ 2,356 &#160; $ 1,118 

Total assets measured at fair value (1)(3) 

76,713 &#160; 98,640 

Level 3 liabilities (1) 

2,598 &#160; 1,620 

Total liabilities measured at fair value (1) 

28,125 &#160; 49,380 Level 3 assets as a percent of total assets measured at fair value 3.1 &#160; % 1.1 % Level 3 liabilities as a percent of total liabilities measured at fair value 9.2 &#160; % 3.3 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Presented without netting which allows the offsetting of amounts relating to certain contracts if certain conditions are met. 

(2) Includes $355 million of recurring Level 3 assets and $2,001 million of non-recurring Level 3 assets at December 31, 2021. Includes $845 million of recurring Level 3 assets and $273 million of non-recurring Level 3 assets at December 31, 2020. 

(3) Includes $74,511 million of assets measured on a recurring basis and $2,202 million of assets measured on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2021. Includes $97,982 million of assets measured on a recurring basis and $658 million of assets measured on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2020. 

Significant Changes in Fair Value for Level 3 Assets and Liabilities During 2021, we transferred certain loans to held for sale which were determined to be Level 3 assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. See Note 9, "Loans Held for Sale," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

See Note 29, "Fair Value Measurements," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information on additions to and transfers into (out of) Level 3 measurements during 2021 and 2020 as well as for further details including the classification hierarchy associated with assets and liabilities measured at fair value. 

Effect of Changes in Significant Unobservable Inputs &#160; The fair value of certain financial instruments is measured using valuation techniques that incorporate pricing assumptions not supported by, derived from or corroborated by observable market data. The resultant fair value measurements are dependent on unobservable input parameters which can be selected from a range of estimates and may be interdependent. Changes in one or more of the significant unobservable input parameters may change the fair value measurements of these financial instruments. For the purpose of preparing the financial statements, the final valuation inputs selected are based on management's best judgment that reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing similar assets or liabilities. 

The unobservable input parameters selected are subject to the internal valuation control processes and procedures. When we perform a test of all the significant input parameters to the extreme values within the range at the same time, it could result in an increase of the overall fair value measurement of approximately $23 million or a decrease of the overall fair value measurement of approximately $23 million at December 31, 2021. The effect of changes in significant unobservable input parameters are primarily driven by the uncertainty in determining the fair value of certain credit-linked structured notes. 

Risk Management 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Overview &#160; Managing risk effectively is fundamental to the delivery of our strategic priorities. 

Our risk management framework We use a comprehensive risk management framework across the organization and across all risk types underpinned by our risk culture. This framework fosters continuous monitoring, promotes risk awareness and encourages sound operational and strategic decision-making. It also ensures a consistent approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in our activities. 

Our risk culture refers to norms, attitudes and behaviors related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management. We have long recognized the importance of a strong risk management culture, the fostering of which is a key responsibility of senior executives. Our risk culture is reinforced by our values and principles. It is instrumental in aligning the behaviors of individuals with our attitude to assuming and managing risk, which helps to ensure that our risk profile remains in line with our risk 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

appetite. We use clear and consistent employee communication on risk to convey strategic messages and set the tone from senior management and the Board of Directors. We also deploy mandatory training on risk and compliance topics to embed skills and understanding in order to strengthen our risk culture and reinforce the attitude to risk in the behavior expected of employees, as described in our risk policies. We operate a global whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential, allowing staff to report matters of concern confidentially. Our risk culture is also reinforced by our approach to remuneration. Individual awards, including those for senior executives, are based on compliance with our values and the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives, which are aligned to our risk appetite and strategy. 

Maintaining a conservative risk profile is a core part of our philosophy. This philosophy encompasses: maintaining a strong capital position defined by regulatory and internal capital ratios; having effective liquidity and funding management; generating returns that are in line with risk taken; and maintaining a sustainable and diversified earnings mix, delivering consistent returns. Additionally, we have zero tolerance for the following: 

&#8226; knowingly engaging in any business, activity or association where foreseeable reputational risk or damage has not been considered and/or mitigated; 

&#8226; deliberately or knowingly causing detriment to consumers arising from our products, services or operations or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit of regulatory requirements; and 

&#8226; inappropriate market conduct by a member of our staff or by any of our lines of business. 

Risk governance Our Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for effective oversight of risk management. It is advised on risk matters by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, notably risk appetite and its alignment with our strategy, risk governance and internal controls, as well as high-level risk related matters. Robust risk governance and accountability are embedded throughout our business through an established framework that helps to ensure appropriate oversight of and accountability for the effective management of risk. During 2021, the Compliance and Conduct Committee ("CCC") of the Board of Directors was dissolved as part of a global effort to streamline corporate governance forums to enhance efficiency. As a result, the oversight responsibilities of the CCC were allocated amongst the Board of Directors' standing committees. In particular, the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors has assumed responsibilities related to compliance, conduct and values, fiduciary matters, and responsible business practices. 

Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk management framework resides with the Chief Risk Officer ("CRO") who is supported by the Risk Management Meeting of the HSBC USA Executive Committee ("RMM"). The management of financial crime risk resides with the U.S. Head of Financial Crime and Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Officer. As a reflection of the growing maturity and effectiveness of financial crime risk management, during 2021, the functions of the Financial Crime Risk Management Committee were integrated into the RMM. As a result, the RMM now also oversees the risk management of both regulatory compliance and financial crime. Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior managers with individual accountability for decision making. 

Our responsibilities All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within the scope of their role as part of the Three Lines of Defense ("LoD") model. This model delineates management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the control environment, and underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying responsibilities, encouraging collaboration and enabling efficient coordination of risk and control activities. Under the Three LoD model, the First LoD owns the risks and is responsible for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line with risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and assessments are in place to mitigate them. The Second LoD sets the policy and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the First LoD on effective risk management. The Third LoD is our Internal Audit function, which provides independent assurance that our risk management, governance and internal control processes are designed and operating effectively. 

The principle of individual accountability is exercised across the organization and is fundamental to effective risk management. Decisions are made by specific individuals in line with their mandates and/or delegated authority to ensure clear accountability. This includes those decisions made where approval should be requested from the accountable individual. Individual accountability is reinforced through the Three LoD model. The Board of Directors and its committees are collective decision-making bodies. All employees are required to identify, assess and manage risk within the scope of their assigned responsibilities and, as such, they are critical to the effectiveness of the Three LoD model. 

Risk function Our Risk function, headed by the CRO, is responsible for our risk management framework. This responsibility includes establishing policies, monitoring risk profiles and forward-looking risk identification and management. Our Risk function is made up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. The Risk function forms part of the Second LoD. It is independent from our lines of business, including sales and trading functions, to provide challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in risk/reward decisions. The CRO reports to the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and to the HSBC Group CRO. The CRO also reports on risk related matters to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Executive accountability for the 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

ongoing monitoring, assessment and management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of risk management policies resides with the CRO, supported by the RMM. 

Specific oversight of various risk management processes occurs through the following meetings: 

&#8226; the Asset and Liability Management Committee ("ALCO"); 

&#8226; the Reputational Risk and Client Selection Committees ("RRCSCs"); and 

&#8226; Line of business ("LoB") risk management and oversight meetings. 

Each of these committees, as well as the RMM, have separate charters which detail their respective roles and responsibilities. 

The ALCO provides oversight of all capital, liquidity, interest rate and market risk and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. ALCO sets the limits of acceptable risk, monitors the adequacy of the tools used to measure risk and assesses the adequacy of reporting. In managing these risks, we seek to protect both our income stream and the value of our assets. ALCO also conducts contingency planning with regard to liquidity. 

The RRCSC structure ensures appropriate consideration of customers and transactions that may adversely affect our public perception. RRCSCs exist in each business and comprise senior members from the business, risk, legal, financial crime and compliance departments and other invited parties. The RRCSCs provide decision-making and guidance in respect of reputational risks and customer selection matters, and are responsible for ensuring that issues are appropriately tracked and resolved. 

The LoB risk management and oversight meetings provide recommendations and advice, as requested, to their respective LoB senior management teams in the exercise of their powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the enterprise-wide management of all risks within or impacting their respective businesses. 

Enterprise-wide risk management tools We use a range of tools to identify, monitor and manage risk. The key enterprise-wide risk management tools are summarized below: 

&#8226; Risk appetite - The CRO oversees the development of our risk appetite which defines, shapes and monitors our risk profile. The HSBC North America Risk Appetite Statement ("RAS") is a written articulation of the aggregate level and types of risk that we are willing to accept in order to achieve our strategic business objectives. HSBC North America's conservative risk profile is articulated in the qualitative section of the RAS, which serves as guidance to embed risk appetite and supports strategic and operational decision making at HUSI. The quantitative section of the RAS contains a set of key metrics covering both financial and non-financial risks. Non-financial risk is defined as the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives as a result of inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. 

Performance against the RAS metrics is monitored by senior management and reported to the RMM and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors on a periodic basis, enabling senior management to monitor the risk profile and guide business activity to balance risk and return. All breaches of risk appetite thresholds and actions to remediate the breaches are documented and reviewed. This process helps to embed a strong risk culture across our businesses. The risk appetite profile is one of the key tools in the wider enterprise risk management framework, which drives the core of our active risk management. The risk appetite profile is aligned to strategic and financial planning and therefore provides a top down view of risk and return objectives. 

&#8226; Risk map - We utilize a risk map to provide a point-in-time view of our residual risk profile across a range of both financial and non-financial risk categories, including our principal banking risks. It assesses the potential of these risks to have a material impact on our financial results, reputation or sustainability of our business. Risks that have an 'amber' or 'red' rating require a rating justification to outline the key issues and monitoring and mitigating action plans to be in place to manage the risk down to acceptable levels. 

&#8226; Top and emerging risks - We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking view of risks with the potential to threaten the execution of our strategy or operations. The top and emerging risks framework enables us to take action which either stop these risks from materializing or limit their impact. We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment as well as review the themes identified across our businesses and functions to update our top and emerging risks as necessary. A 'top risk' is defined as a risk we are currently managing which, if not managed and mitigated, has the potential to have a material impact on our financial results, reputation or business model. It may arise across any combinations of risk types or businesses. The impact of a 'top risk' may be well understood by senior management and some mitigating actions may already be in place. An 'emerging risk' is defined as a risk that could have a material impact on the risk profile of the organization, but is not under active management and is not immediate. Existing mitigating plans for an 'emerging risk' are likely to be minimal, reflecting the uncertain nature of these risks at this stage. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; Risk identification - Risk identification is a tool that allows us to provide a holistic view of risks facing the organization stemming from our unique business activities and associated exposures, including those that are difficult to quantify or only materialize under stressful conditions. The process is integrated with and built upon existing risk management tools such as top and emerging risk reporting as well as risk and control assessments. The risk identification process takes place on a quarterly basis and involves senior representatives from the First and Second LoD. Senior management governance is provided by the RMM with results presented to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors on an annual basis. Material risks identified are actively monitored and used to inform key aspects of our capital planning and stress testing program. 

&#8226; Stress testing - Stress testing is an important tool we use to assess potential vulnerabilities in our businesses, business model or portfolios. We operate a comprehensive stress testing program that supports our risk management and capital planning processes. It includes execution of stress tests mandated by our regulators, is supported by dedicated teams and infrastructure, and is overseen by senior management. It demonstrates our capital strength and enhances our resilience to external shocks. It allows us to understand the sensitivities of the core assumptions in our strategic and capital plans and improve decision making through balancing risk and return. In addition to taking part in regulators' stress tests, we conduct our own internal stress tests. Internal stress test scenarios are closely aligned to our assessment of top and emerging risks and help inform risk appetite thresholds. These may prompt management actions, including a reduction in limits or direct exposures, or closer monitoring of exposures sensitive to stress. 

&#8226; Models - In the course of our regular risk management activities, we use models to help quantify the risk we are taking. The output from some of these models is included in this section of our filing. By their nature, models are based on various assumptions and relationships. We believe that the assumptions used in these models are reasonable within the parameters for which the models have been built and calibrated to operate, but events may unfold differently than what is assumed in the models. In actual stressed market conditions, these assumptions and relationships may no longer hold, causing actual experience to differ significantly from the results predicted in the model. Consequently, actual results may differ significantly from model projections. 

The severe projections of macroeconomic variables during the current COVID-19 pandemic represent events outside the parameters for which the models have been built. As a result, adjustments to model outputs to reflect consideration of management judgment are used with stringent governance in place to ensure appropriate results. Where models do not require adjustments, enhanced model monitoring confirms models are performing as intended. 

Key developments in 2021 We actively managed the risks resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on our customers and operations during 2021. We have maintained high levels of service as our people, processes and systems responded to the required changes. We continued our increased focus on the quality and the timeliness of the data used to inform management decisions through measures such as early warning indicators, prudent and active management of our risk appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our stakeholders. We also continued enhancing our monitoring of risks and developing actions, such as performing reviews of our portfolios that are highly vulnerable to the economic environment and implementing additional review measures for new credit requests. In 2021, we conducted a range of internal stress tests which explored potential impacts for key vulnerabilities to which we are exposed, including geopolitical impacts and the COVID-19 pandemic. Our balance sheet and capital adequacy remain resilient based on these tests. 

In addition, we enhanced our risk management in the following areas: 

&#8226; We streamlined the articulation of our risk appetite framework, providing further clarity on how risk appetite interacts with strategic planning and recovery planning processes. 

&#8226; We further simplified our approach to non-financial risk management, with the implementation of more effective oversight tools and techniques to improve end-to-end identification and management of these risks. 

&#8226; We continued to strengthen our ability to manage financial risks across the businesses and risk functions through enhancements in our approach to portfolio and concentration risk management and initiatives to enhance portfolio monitoring and analytics. 

Our material risks The principal risks associated with our operations include the following: 

&#8226; Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract; 

&#8226; Treasury risk is the risk of having insufficient capital, liquidity or funding resources to meet financial obligations and satisfy regulatory requirements, including pension risk. Treasury risk also includes the risk to our earnings due to changes in market interest rates; 

&#8226; Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and commodity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our portfolios; 

&#8226; Resilience risk is the risk that we are unable to provide critical services to our customers, affiliates and counterparties as a result of sustained and significant operational disruption; 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; Regulatory compliance risk is the risk that we fail to observe the letter and spirit of relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice, which as a consequence incur fines and penalties and suffer damage to our business; 

&#8226; Financial crime risk is the risk that we knowingly or unknowingly help parties to commit or to further potentially illegal activity, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions breaches, and terrorist and proliferation financing; 

&#8226; Strategic risk is the risk that the business will fail to identify, execute and react appropriately to opportunities and/or threats arising from changes in the market, some of which may emerge over a number of years such as changing economic and political circumstances, customer requirements, demographic trends, regulatory developments or competitor action; and 

&#8226; Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from business decisions informed by models, which can be exacerbated by errors in methodology, design or the way they are used. 

Credit Risk Management Credit risk is managed through a robust risk identification and control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers. Credit risk is monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities. 

The principle objectives of credit risk management are to: 

&#8226; maintain a strong culture of responsible lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks; 

&#8226; both partner with and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions; and 

&#8226; ensure there is independent scrutiny of credit risks, their cost and their mitigation. 

Credit risk arises from various on- and off-balance sheet instruments and arrangements, such as: 

&#8226; loan portfolios; 

&#8226; investment portfolios; 

&#8226; unfunded commitments such as letters of credit and lines of credit and unutilized credit card lines that customers can draw upon; and 

&#8226; derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, which may represent an exposure to the counterparty to the contract. 

While credit risk exists widely in our operations, diversification among various commercial and consumer portfolios helps to lessen risk exposure. Day-to-day management of credit risk is performed by the Chief Credit Officer and the WPB Chief Risk Officer, who report directly to the CRO and maintain independent risk functions. The credit risk associated with wholesale commercial portfolios is managed by the Chief Credit Officer, while credit risk associated with retail consumer loan portfolios is managed by the WPB Chief Risk Officer. Further discussion of credit risk can be found under the "Credit Quality" caption in this MD&#38;A. 

Our credit risk management procedures are designed for all stages of economic and financial cycles, including challenging periods of market volatility and economic uncertainty. The Credit Risk function continues to refine early warning indicators and reporting, including stress testing scenarios on the basis of recent experience. Stress testing results are taken into consideration within our business planning process. Action has been taken, where necessary, to improve our resilience to risks associated with the current market conditions by selectively discontinuing business lines or products, closely managing underwriting criteria and investing in improved fraud prevention technologies. In addition, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continued to create economic uncertainty during 2021. We continue to monitor the performance of our material commercial loans as conditions evolve and take necessary credit actions where warranted. 

The responsibilities of the Credit Risk function include: 

&#8226; Formulating credit risk policies &#8211; Our policies are designed to ensure that all of our various retail and wholesale business units operate within clear standards of acceptable credit risk. Our policies ensure that the HSBC standards are consistently implemented across all businesses and that all regulatory requirements are also considered. Credit policies are reviewed and approved annually at the RMM and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

&#8226; Approving new credit exposures and independently assessing large exposures annually &#8211; Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors to the CRO with the authority to sub-delegate to the Chief Credit Officer and WPB Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Credit Officer and WPB Chief Risk Officer in turn delegate limited credit authority to the various lending units. However, most wholesale credits are reviewed and approved centrally through a dedicated Credit Approval Unit that reports directly to the Chief Credit Officer. In addition, the Chief Credit Officer coordinates the review of material credits with the HSBC Group Credit Risk which, 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

subject to certain agreed-upon limits, will concur on material new and renewal transactions. Large retail credits are escalated to the WPB Chief Risk Officer for review and concurrence. 

&#8226; Overseeing retail credit and collateral risk &#8211; The WPB Chief Risk Officer manages the credit and collateral risk associated with retail portfolios, supported by expertise from a dedicated advanced risk analytics unit. Collateral risk in retail arises when the underlying value of the property securing a retail loan loses value due to macroeconomic, housing market or industry conditions. This risk is actively managed through on-going monitoring of House Price Indices in the Metropolitan Statistical Areas in which the mortgage portfolio is concentrated. In areas where property values are declining, maximum LTV requirements will be adjusted downward to compensate for this risk. 

&#8226; Maintaining and developing the governance and operation of the wholesale risk rating system &#8211; A two-dimensional credit risk rating system is utilized in order to categorize exposures meaningfully and enable focused management of the risks involved. This rating system comprises a 23 category customer risk rating, which considers the probability of default of an obligor and a separate assessment of the obligor's expected performance in servicing its obligations in accordance with the terms. Each credit grade has a probability of default estimate. Rating methodologies are based upon a wide range of analytics and market data-based tools, which are core inputs to the assessment of counterparty risk. Although automated risk rating processes are increasingly used, for larger facilities the ultimate responsibility for setting risk grades rests in each case with the final approving executive. Risk grades are reviewed frequently and amendments, where necessary, are implemented promptly. 

&#8226; Measuring portfolio credit risk &#8211; We continue to advance the measurement of the risk in our credit portfolios using techniques such as stress testing in certain internal reporting. Efforts continue to refine both the inputs and assumptions used to increase the usefulness in the evaluation of large and small commercial and retail customer portfolio products and business unit return on risk. 

&#8226; Monitoring portfolio performance &#8211; Credit data warehouses have been implemented to centralize the reporting of credit risk, support the analysis of risk and to calculate credit loss reserves. This data warehouse also supports HSBC's wider effort to meet the requirements of Basel III and to generate credit reports for management and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

&#8226; Establishing counterparty and portfolio limits &#8211; We monitor and limit our wholesale exposure to individual counterparties and to the combined exposure of related counterparties. In addition, selected industry portfolios, such as real estate, are subject to caps that are recommended by the Chief Credit Officer and reviewed where appropriate by management committees and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Retail establishes portfolio limits by product as well as limits on new products and higher-risk segments such as investment property, high LTV mortgages and credit cards. These limits are approved by the WPB Chief Risk Officer and monitored by a retail credit risk management committee. Counterparty credit exposure related to derivative activities is also managed under approved limits. Since the exposure related to derivatives is variable and uncertain, internal risk management methodologies are used to calculate the 95 percent worst-case potential future exposure for each customer. These methodologies take into consideration, among other factors, cross-product close-out netting, collateral received from customers under collateral support annexes, termination clauses, and off-setting positions within the portfolio. 

&#8226; Managing problem loans &#8211; Special attention is paid to problem loans. When appropriate, our wholesale Loan Management Unit and retail Collection and Recovery teams provide customers with intensive management and support in order to help them avoid default wherever possible and maximize recoveries. 

&#8226; Establishing allowances for credit losses &#8211; The Chief Credit Officer and the WPB Chief Risk Officer share responsibility with the Chief Financial Officer for establishing appropriate levels of allowances for credit losses inherent in our various loan and other portfolios carried at amortized cost. This responsibility includes overseeing the processes for: model performance monitoring and redevelopment of new models, establishing forward-looking economic scenarios, projecting results from the impairment calculation engine, and determining management judgment utilized for estimating lifetime ECL. Management review committees comprising representatives from Credit Risk and Finance have been established in order to review and approve the results of the lifetime ECL calculations. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Sustainability risk is a component of credit risk and represents the risk that financial services provided to customers indirectly result in unacceptable impacts on people or on the environment. We measure sustainability risk by assessing the potential sustainability impacts of a customer's activities and assigning a sustainability risk rating. Sustainability risk is monitored by the businesses and the Credit Approval Unit, as well as HSBC Group Sustainability Risk, who are actively responsible for developing policies, guidance, processes and training. Sustainability Risk Managers in the Wholesale Credit Risk function, with input from HSBC Group Sustainability Risk, are responsible for advising our businesses on managing environmental and social risks. The Wholesale Credit Risk function's responsibilities in relation to sustainability risk include: 

&#8226; overseeing our sustainability risk standards, our application of the Equator Principles and our sustainability policies (covering agricultural commodities, chemicals, defense, energy, forestry, mining and metals, Ramsar Wetlands and UNESCO World Heritage Sites); 

&#8226; undertaking an independent review of transactions, including escalating transactions to HSBC Group Sustainability Risk where sustainability risks are assessed to be high and approving transactions where sustainability risks are of a lower magnitude; and 

&#8226; providing training and capacity building within our businesses to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently. 

Credit Review is an independent and critical Second LoD function. Its mission is to identify and evaluate areas of credit risk within our business. Credit Review will focus on the review and evaluation of wholesale and retail lending activities and will identify risks and provide an ongoing assessment as to the effectiveness of the risk management framework and the related portfolios. Credit Review will independently assess the business units and risk management functions to ensure the portfolios are managed and operating in a manner that is consistent with HSBC Group strategy, risk appetite, appropriate local and HSBC Group credit policies and procedures and applicable regulatory requirements. For example, this includes the unilateral authority to independently assess and revise customer risk ratings, facility grades and loss given default estimates. To ensure its independent stature, the Credit Review Delegation of Authority is endorsed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors which grants the Head of Credit Review unhindered access to the Risk Committee and executive sessions at the discretion of the Head of Credit Review. Accordingly, our Risk Committee of the Board of Directors has oversight of the Credit Review annual and ongoing plan, quarterly plan updates and results of reviews. 

Treasury Risk Management Treasury risk arises from changes to the respective resources and risk profiles driven by customer behavior, management decisions or the external environment. 

Capital risk is the risk that we fail to meet our regulatory capital requirements. Capital risk arises from a deterioration in the capital base due to losses and increased risk profile from management activity or the external environment. We aim to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our strategy, meeting regulatory capital requirements at all times. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this MD&#38;A for a full discussion of our approach to capital risk management, including our capital ratios and regulatory capital requirements. 

Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that we do not have sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due or that we cannot raise funding or can only do so at excessive cost. Liquidity and funding risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows or when illiquid asset positions cannot be funded at the expected terms and when required. We continuously monitor the impact of market events on our liquidity positions and will continue to adapt our liquidity and funding framework to reflect market events and the evolving regulatory landscape and view as to best practices. Historically, we have seen the greatest strain in the wholesale market as opposed to the retail market (the latter being the market from which we source stable demand and time deposit accounts which are less sensitive to market events or changes in interest rates). 

Liquidity is managed to provide the ability to generate cash to meet lending, deposit withdrawal and other commitments at a reasonable cost in a reasonable amount of time while maintaining routine operations and market confidence. Market funding is coordinated with other HSBC Group entities, as the markets increasingly view debt issuances from the separate companies within the context of our common parent company. Liquidity and funding risk management is performed at the HSBC North America, HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA levels. Each entity is required to have sufficient liquidity for a crisis situation. 

ALCO develops and implements policies and procedures to ensure that the minimum liquidity ratios and a strong overall liquidity position are maintained. ALCO projects cash flow requirements and determines the level of liquid assets and available funding sources to have at our disposal, with consideration given to anticipated deposit and balance sheet growth, contingent liabilities, and the ability to access wholesale funding markets. In addition to base case projections, multiple stress scenarios are generated to simulate crisis conditions, including: 

&#8226; run-off of non-stable deposits; 

&#8226; inability to renew maturing interbank funding; 

&#8226; draw-downs of committed loan facilities; 

&#8226; decreases in the market value of liquid securities; 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

&#8226; additional collateral requirements for derivative transactions under existing collateral support agreements; 

&#8226; rating downgrades of HSBC USA or HSBC Bank USA; and 

&#8226; increased discount on security values for repos or disposals. 

In addition, ALCO monitors the overall mix of deposit and funding concentrations to avoid undue reliance on individual funding sources and large deposit relationships. 

As part of our approach towards liquidity and funding risk management, we employ the measures discussed below to define, monitor and control our liquidity and funding risk in accordance with HSBC policy. 

The Basel Committee based liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") is designed to be a short-term liquidity measure to ensure banks have sufficient High Quality Liquid Assets ("HQLA") to cover net stressed cash outflows over the next 30 days. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, HSBC USA's LCR exceeded 100 percent. A LCR of 100 percent or higher reflects an unencumbered HQLA balance that is equal to or exceeds liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. HQLA consists of cash or assets that can be converted into cash at little or no loss of value in private markets. HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are also currently subject to the U.S. LCR rule and are required to report their LCR to U.S. regulators on a daily basis. Under the Tailoring Rules, an 85 percent LCR requirement applies to Category III firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding under $75 billion and their depository institution subsidiaries. As a result, under the U.S. LCR rule, a LCR of 100 percent or higher reflects an unencumbered HQLA balance that is equal to or exceeds 85 percent of a Category III firm's liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. During 2021, HSBC Bank USA's LCR under the U.S. LCR rule remained above the 100 percent minimum requirement. 

The U.K. calibration of the Basel Committee based net stable funding ratio ("NSFR"), which is a longer term liquidity measure with a 12-month time horizon to ensure a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities, took effect on January 1, 2022. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, HSBC USA's estimated NSFR, based on our interpretation and understanding of the U.K. NSFR rule, exceeded 100 percent. A NSFR of 100 percent or more reflects an available stable funding balance from liabilities and capital over the next 12 months that is equal to or exceeds the required amount of funding for assets and off-balance sheet exposures. HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are also currently subject to the U.S. NSFR rule, which took effect on July 1, 2021. Consistent with the Tailoring Rules, an 85 percent NSFR requirement applies to Category III firms with weighted short-term wholesale funding under $75 billion and their depository institution subsidiaries. As a result, under the U.S. NSFR rule, a NSFR of 100 percent or more reflects an available stable funding balance from liabilities and capital over the next 12 months that is equal to or exceeds 85 percent of a Category III firm's required amount of funding for assets and off-balance sheet exposures. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, HSBC Bank USA's NSFR under the U.S. NSFR rule exceeded 100 percent. The ratio at December 31, 2020 was estimated based on our interpretation and understanding of the U.S. NSFR rule at that time. 

As of January 1, 2022, HSBC North America met the criteria to be re-classified as a Category IV firm and, as a result of this classification change, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA expect to be subject to a further reduced U.S. LCR and NSFR requirement of 70 percent so long as HSBC North America's weighted short-term wholesale funding equals or exceeds $50 billion. 

As a Category III firm, HSBC North America was subject to liquidity stress testing on a monthly basis and related liquidity buffer and liquidity risk management requirements. As a Category IV firm, HSBC North America remains subject to liquidity risk management and liquidity buffer requirements, but expects to be subject to liquidity stress testing on a quarterly, rather than monthly basis. HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA have liquidity profiles to support compliance with these rules and may need to make changes to their liquidity profiles to support compliance with any future rules. 

ALCO also maintains a liquidity management and contingency funding plan ("Contingency Funding Plan"), which identifies certain potential early warning indicators of liquidity problems, and actions that can be taken both initially and in the event of a liquidity crisis, to minimize the long-term impact on our businesses and customer relationships. The Contingency Funding Plan is reviewed annually and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. We recognize a liquidity crisis can either be specific to us, relating to our ability to meet our obligations in a timely manner, or market-wide, caused by a macro risk event in the broader financial system. A range of indicators are monitored to attain an early warning of any liquidity issues. These include widening of key spreads or indices used to track market volatility, material reductions or extreme volatility in customer deposit balances, increased utilization of credit lines, widening of our own credit spreads and higher borrowing costs. At the onset of a crisis, liquidity needs would be satisfied primarily with unsecured wholesale market funding. If the crisis escalates, contingency funding needs will be satisfied primarily through sales of securities from the investment portfolio and secured borrowing using the mortgage portfolio as collateral. Securities may be sold or used as collateral in a repurchase agreement depending on the scenario. Portions of the mortgage portfolio may be used as collateral at the FHLB to increase borrowings. We maintain a Liquid Asset Buffer consisting of cash, short-term liquid assets and unencumbered government and 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

other highly rated investment securities as a source of funding. Further, collateral is maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and the FHLB, providing additional secured borrowing capacity in a liquidity crisis. 

In addition to the oversight provided by ALCO, Treasury Risk Management ("TRM") is a Second LoD oversight function for treasury risk-related activities, including capital, liquidity and funding and interest rate risk, which independently reports into the CRO. TRM's primary mandate is to strengthen our treasury risk management framework through challenge and review of existing processes and recommending areas that need improvement to the RMM. TRM serves as an advisory function to senior management to ensure front line units with direct responsibility for managing treasury risk are operating within their operating guidelines and defined risk appetite parameters. The TRM oversight mandate is carried out through critical evaluation and challenge of existing risk management processes including stress testing and ratio calculations. 

Our liquidity and funding risk management approach includes deposits, supplemented by wholesale borrowing to fund our balance sheet, and using security sales or secured borrowings for liquidity stress situations in our liquidity contingency plans. In addition, regulations require banks to retain a portfolio of HQLA. As such, we are maintaining a large portfolio of high quality sovereign and sovereign guaranteed securities. 

Our ability to regularly attract wholesale funds at a competitive cost is enhanced by strong ratings from the major credit ratings agencies. The following table reflects the short and long-term credit ratings of HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA at December 31, 2021: 

##TABLE_START 

&#160; &#160; 

Moody's S&#38;P Fitch HSBC USA: Short-term borrowings P-1 A-2 F1+ Long-term/senior debt A1 A- A+ HSBC Bank USA: Short-term borrowings P-1 A-1 F1+ Long-term/senior debt Aa3 A+ AA- ##TABLE_END

Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management practices and legal matters, all of which could lead to adverse ratings actions. 

In June 2021, Moody's downgraded both the long-term deposit rating and the adjusted baseline credit assessment of HSBC Bank USA by one notch following similar downgrades to the senior unsecured rating and the notional baseline credit assessment of HSBC. These rating downgrades reflect Moody's view that the HSBC Group will face challenges in restoring profitability to levels in line with its main peers in the next 12-18 months, which could reduce the capacity of HSBC to provide support to HSBC Bank USA in case of need. Concurrently, Moody's affirmed the standalone baseline credit assessment and the short-term deposit rating of HSBC Bank USA. 

In August 2021, Moody's concluded a review of certain of our credit ratings for potential upgrade and upgraded the senior debt rating of HSBC USA by one notch to A1. Moody's review also resulted in one notch upgrades to the provisional subordinated and preferred stock ratings of HSBC USA and the subordinated debt rating of HSBC Bank USA. These rating upgrades reflect Moody's expectation that HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA would be resolved in a unified manner alongside their immediate parent, HSBC North America, and their ultimate parent, HSBC. Concurrently, Moody's affirmed the baseline credit assessment and the adjusted baseline credit assessment of HSBC Bank USA. 

While these rating actions did not have a material financial impact on our borrowing costs or liquidity, any future actions could have such an impact. Although we closely monitor and strive to manage factors influencing our credit ratings, there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not change in the future. At December 31, 2021, none of the ratings on the debt of HSBC USA or HSBC Bank USA from any of the rating agencies were under review for potential downgrade. 

Numerous factors, internal and external, may impact access to and costs associated with issuing debt in the global capital markets. These factors include our debt ratings, overall economic conditions, overall capital markets volatility and the effectiveness of the management of credit risks inherent in our customer base. 

Cash resources, short-term investments and a trading asset portfolio are available to provide highly liquid funding for us. Additional liquidity is provided by available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities. Approximately $1,449 million of the debt securities in these portfolios at December 31, 2021 are expected to mature in 2022. The remaining $39,053 million of debt securities not expected to mature in 2022 are available to provide liquidity by serving as collateral for secured borrowings, or if needed, by being sold. Further liquidity is available through our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets. In 2021, in addition to the normal sales of agency-eligible mortgage loan originations, we sold loans of approximately $1,414 million to third parties as part of our Restructuring Plan. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

It is the policy of HSBC Bank USA to maintain both primary and secondary collateral in order to ensure precautionary borrowing availability from the Federal Reserve Bank. Primary collateral is collateral that is physically maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank, and serves as a safety net against any unexpected funding shortfalls that may occur. Secondary collateral is collateral that is acceptable to the Federal Reserve Bank, but is not maintained there. If unutilized borrowing capacity were to be low, secondary collateral would be identified and maintained as necessary. Further liquidity is available from the FHLB. 

See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this MD&#38;A for further discussion of our liquidity position, including additional information regarding our outstanding borrowings, the remaining availability of our debt issuance programs and our funding strategy. 

Interest rate risk is the potential reduction of net interest income due to mismatched pricing between assets and liabilities as well as losses in value due to interest rate movements. We are subject to interest rate risk associated with the repricing characteristics of our balance sheet assets and liabilities. Specifically, as interest rates change, amounts of interest earning assets and liabilities fluctuate, and interest earning assets reprice at intervals that do not correspond to the maturities or repricing patterns of interest bearing liabilities. This mismatch between assets and liabilities in repricing sensitivity results in changes to projected net interest income as interest rates move. To help manage the risks associated with changes in interest rates, and to manage net interest income within interest rate risk ranges management considers acceptable, we use derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, options, futures and forwards as hedges to modify the repricing characteristics of specific assets, liabilities, forecasted transactions or firm commitments. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioral assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts. These assumptions around behavioral features are captured in our interest rate behavioralization framework, which is described further below. Day-to-day management of interest rate risk is centralized principally in Markets Treasury, which includes the non-trading interest rate risk positions transferred to it as discussed further under "Market Risk Management" below. 

We have significant, but historically well controlled, interest rate risk in large part due to our portfolio of residential mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, which consumers can prepay without penalty, and our large base of demand and savings deposits. These deposits can be withdrawn by consumers at will, but historically they have been a stable source of relatively low cost funds. 

In addition, we have a considerable number of contracts referencing LIBOR. The process of adopting new reference rates may expose us to an increased level of financial risks, such as potential earnings volatility. See "Executive Overview" in this MD&#38;A for a full discussion of our LIBOR transition. 

In the course of managing interest rate risk, an economic value of equity ("EVE") analysis is utilized in conjunction with a combination of other risk assessment techniques to identify and assess the potential impact of interest rate movements and take appropriate action. This combination of techniques, with some focusing on the impact of interest rate movements on the valuation of the balance sheet (e.g. EVE, present value of a basis point ("PVBP"), repricing gap analysis, value at risk) and others focusing on the impact of interest rate movements on earnings (e.g. net interest income simulation modeling, basis risk analysis) allows for comprehensive analyses from different perspectives. Refer to "Market Risk Management" below for discussion regarding the use of value at risk analyses to monitor and manage interest rate risk. 

A key element of managing interest rate risk is the management of the convexity of the balance sheet, largely resulting from the mortgage related products on the balance sheet. Convexity risk arises as mortgage loan consumers change their payment behavior significantly in response to large movements in market rates, but do not change behavior appreciably for smaller changes in market rates. Certain interest rate management tools, such as EVE and net interest income simulation modeling described below, better capture the embedded convexity in the balance sheet, while measures such as PVBP are designed to capture the risk of smaller changes in rates. 

The assessment techniques discussed below act as a guide for managing interest rate risk associated with balance sheet composition and off-balance sheet hedging strategy (the risk position). Calculated values within limit ranges reflect an acceptable risk position, although possible future unfavorable trends may prompt adjustments to on or off-balance sheet exposure. Calculated values outside of limit ranges will result in consideration of adjustment of the risk position, or consideration of temporary dispensation from making adjustments. 

Interest rate metrics have been adjusted to reflect the impact of our decision to exit our mass market retail banking business as part of our Restructuring Plan. The risk metrics at December 31, 2021 reflect current assumed transaction dates, with balances reduced at projected sale dates and the associated impacts of those reductions is included in both base and shock scenarios. 

Economic value of equity ("EVE") EVE represents the present value of the banking book cash flows that could be provided to our equity holder under a managed run-off scenario. An EVE sensitivity represents the change in EVE due to a defined movement in interest rates. We manage to an immediate parallel upward shock of 200 basis points and an immediate parallel 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

downward shock of 200 basis points to the market implied interest rates. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, our EVE remained within risk limits for the up 200 and down 200 basis point interest rate shock scenarios. 

Repricing gap analysis The following table shows the repricing structure of our assets and liabilities at December 31, 2021. For assets and liabilities whose cash flows are subject to change due to movements in interest rates, such as the sensitivity of mortgage loans to prepayments, data is reported based on the earlier of expected repricing or maturity and reflects anticipated prepayments based on the current rate environment. The resulting "gaps" are reviewed to assess the potential sensitivity to earnings with respect to the direction, magnitude and timing of changes in market interest rates. Data shown is as of year-end, and one-day figures can be distorted by temporary swings in assets or liabilities. 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2021 Within One Year After One But Within Five Years After Five But Within Ten Years After Ten Years Total &#160; (in millions) Commercial loans $ 39,079 $ 872 $ 292 $ 14 $ 40,257 Residential mortgages and home equity mortgages 7,529 6,479 3,771 1,372 19,151 Credit cards and other consumer loans 651 7 6 9 673 

Total loans (1) 

47,259 7,358 4,069 1,395 60,081 Securities available-for-sale and securities held-to-maturity 6,193 16,536 9,356 8,416 40,501 Other assets 86,896 1,754 &#8212; &#8212; 88,650 Total assets 140,348 25,648 13,425 9,811 189,232 Domestic deposits: Savings and demand 88,962 21,840 9,573 &#8212; 120,375 Time deposits 9,031 48 1 &#8212; 9,080 Long-term debt 9,295 4,750 1,500 1,691 17,236 

Other liabilities/equity (2) 

31,261 10,737 543 &#8212; 42,541 Total liabilities and equity 138,549 37,375 11,617 1,691 189,232 Total balance sheet gap 1,799 (11,727) 1,808 8,120 &#8212; Effect of derivative contracts (8,664) 12,313 (743) (2,906) &#8212; Total gap position $ (6,865) $ 586 $ 1,065 $ 5,214 $ &#8212; ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Includes loans held for sale. 

(2) Includes deposits held for sale. 

Various techniques are utilized to quantify and monitor risks associated with the repricing characteristics of our assets, liabilities and derivative contracts. 

Net interest income simulation modeling techniques We utilize simulation modeling to monitor a number of interest rate scenarios for their impact on projected net interest income. These techniques simulate the impact on projected net interest income under various scenarios, such as rate shock scenarios which assume immediate market rate movements by 100 basis points, as well as scenarios in which rates gradually rise or fall by 100 basis points over a twelve month period. In the gradual scenarios, 25 percent of the interest rate movement occurs at the beginning of each quarter. The following table reflects the impact on our projected net interest income of the scenarios utilized by these modeling techniques: 

##TABLE_START December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Amount % Amount % &#160; (dollars are in millions) Estimated increase (decrease) in projected net interest income (reflects projected rate movements on January 1, 2022 and 2021, respectively): Resulting from a gradual 100 basis point increase in the yield curve $ 225 &#160; 9 &#160; % $ 186 7 % Resulting from a gradual 100 basis point decrease in the yield curve (130) (5) (213) (8) Other significant scenarios monitored (reflects projected rate movements on January 1, 2022 and 2021, respectively): Resulting from an immediate 100 basis point increase in the yield curve 308 &#160; 13 &#160; 274 11 Resulting from an immediate 100 basis point decrease in the yield curve (334) (14) (379) (15) ##TABLE_END

Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and our current interest rate risk profile. This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

probably be taken by Markets Treasury or in the businesses to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk. In reality, Markets Treasury seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimize losses and optimize net revenues. The net interest income simulation modeling calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the 'up-shock' scenarios. The sensitivity calculations in the 'down-shock' scenarios reflect no floors to the shocked market rates. However, customer product-specific rate floors are recognized where appropriate. In addition, the net interest income simulation modeling calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes. The projections do not take into consideration possible complicating factors such as the effect of changes in interest rates on the credit quality, size and composition of the balance sheet. Additionally, the projected net interest income sensitivity under an immediate 100 basis point decrease shock will result in a negative interest rate scenario which is viewed as a remote scenario based on the FRB's comments and requires a significant amount of judgment in the product pricing assumptions. Therefore, although this provides a reasonable estimate of interest rate sensitivity, actual results will differ from these estimates, possibly by significant amounts. 

Interest rate risk behavioralization Unlike liquidity risk which is assessed on the basis of a very severe stress scenario, interest rate risk is assessed and managed according to business-as-usual conditions. In many cases the contractual profile of our assets and liabilities does not reflect the behavior observed. 

Behavioralization is therefore used to assess the interest rate risk of our assets and liabilities and this assessed risk is transferred to Markets Treasury, in accordance with the rules governing the transfer of interest rate risk from the global businesses to Markets Treasury. 

Behavioralization is applied in three key areas: 

&#8226; the assessed re-pricing frequency of managed rate balances; 

&#8226; the assessed duration of non-interest bearing balances, typically capital and current accounts; and 

&#8226; the base case expected prepayment behavior or pipeline take-up rate for fixed rate balances with embedded optionality. 

Interest rate behavioralization policies have to be formulated in line with the HSBC Group's behavioralization policies and approved at least annually by ALCO and global Asset, Liability and Capital Management, in conjunction with local, regional and HSBC Group risk monitoring teams. 

The extent to which balances can be behavioralized is driven by: 

&#8226; the amount of the current balance that can be assessed as stable under business-as-usual conditions; and 

&#8226; for managed rate balances the historic market interest rate re-pricing behavior observed; or 

&#8226; for non-interest bearing balances the duration for which the balance is expected to remain under business-as-usual conditions. This assessment is often driven by the re-investment tenors available to Markets Treasury to neutralize the risk through the use of fixed rate government bonds or interest rate derivatives, and for derivatives the availability of cash flow hedging capacity. 

Pension risk is a component of treasury risk and represents the risk of increased costs from offering post-employment benefit plans to our employees. Certain employees are eligible to participate in the HSBC North America qualified defined benefit pension plan which has been frozen. Plan assets were higher than projected plan liabilities resulting in an over-funded status of approximately $383 million at December 31, 2021. Because these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of any future deficit could be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North America affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up any shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 22, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. 

Market Risk Management Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: 

&#8226; Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-making and warehousing of client-derived positions. 

&#8226; Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities and financial investments classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity. 

We apply similar risk management policies and measurement techniques to both trading and non-trading portfolios. Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures to optimize return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent with our established risk appetite. 

The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies performed corresponds to the market risk management instruments available. These strategies range from the use of traditional market instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging strategies to address a combination of risk factors arising at the portfolio level. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Market risk governance Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors and the RMM, as well as the various businesses, and also ratified by the HSBC Group Risk Management Meeting. These limits are allocated across business lines and to the HSBC Group legal entities, including HSBC USA and HSBC Bank USA. 

We have an independent market risk management and control function in North America which is responsible for setting the risk appetite, measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the policies defined by HSBC Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily basis. 

Model risk is governed through model oversight committees at the regional and global levels. The Committees have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models utilized for risk measurement and management and stress testing. They prioritize the development of models, methodologies and practices used for traded risk management and ensure that they remain within our risk appetite and business plans. We are committed to the ongoing development and enhancement of our in-house risk models subject to regulatory approval. Refer to "Model Risk Management" below for further discussion regarding the management and monitoring of model risk across North America. 

Our control of market risk in the trading and non-trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments ultimately approved by HSBC Group Risk as well as enforcing new product approval procedures through a dedicated committee. 

Market risk measures We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures, including: 

Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, for example the impact of a one basis point change in the yield curve. We use sensitivity analysis to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type. Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set. 

Value at risk ("VaR") VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading positions regardless of how we capitalize them. In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios to have a complete picture of risk. Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarized in the 'Stress Testing' section below. 

Our VaR models are predominantly based on historical simulation which incorporates the following features: 

&#8226; historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates and the associated volatilities; 

&#8226; potential market movements utilized for VaR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years; 

&#8226; scenario profit and losses are calculated utilizing the market scenarios for all relevant risk factors; and 

&#8226; VaR measures are calculated to a 99 percent confidence level and use a one-day holding period. 

The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR without any changes in the underlying positions. 

Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. For example: 

&#8226; the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly those which are extreme in nature; 

&#8226; the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset during that period, which may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully; 

&#8226; the use of a 99 percent confidence level does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence; and 

&#8226; VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day exposures. 

The risks not in VaR ("RNIV") framework aims to capture and capitalize material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR model. Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through the RNIV. RNIV stresses interest rate basis risk exposure and interest rate volatility skewness. RNIV risk-weighted assets make up approximately 10 percent of HUSI market risk risk-weighted assets, though contribution to total HUSI risk-weighted assets remains immaterial. 

Stressed VaR Stressed VaR is primarily used for regulatory capital purposes and is integrated into the risk management process to facilitate efficient capital management. Stressed VaR complements other risk measures by providing severe potential losses 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

associated with stressed market conditions. Stressed VaR modeling follows the same approach as VaR, except Stressed VaR calculates potential loss at a 99 percent confidence level for a one-day holding period based on a one year historical period that is calibrated to the most volatile period for the trading portfolio. 

Stress testing Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our market risk management framework to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. In such scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by VaR modeling. 

A set of scenarios is used consistently across the HSBC Group. Scenarios are tailored to capture the relevant potential events or market movements at each level. The risk appetite around potential stress losses is set and monitored against corresponding limits. 

The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk management, determines the scenarios to be applied. Main scenario types are as follows: 

&#8226; single risk factor stress scenarios that are unlikely to be captured within the VaR models, such as the break of a currency peg; 

&#8226; technical scenarios that incorporate the largest move in each risk factor independent from any underlying market correlation; 

&#8226; hypothetical scenarios are mainly built on potential macroeconomic events, for example, a worsening global energy crisis and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects, curves steepening or flattening scenarios; and 

&#8226; historical scenarios which incorporate past observations of market movements during periods of stress which are not captured within VaR. 

Market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise that there is a fixed loss. The stress testing process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss. The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond normal business conditions and could have contagion and systemic implications. 

Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing, provide management with insights regarding the 'tail risk' beyond VaR, for which our appetite is limited. 

Market risk in 2021 The global market environment was characterized by global economic growth and increased inflation, in the face of supply chain disruptions and the emergence of two COVID-19 variants. 

During the year, economic data improved as jobless claims trended downward, consumer spending increased and manufacturing capacity grew. Inflation accelerated through the year driven by supply chain disruptions as well as increases to energy prices, labor costs and raw materials. In response, the FRB announced a goal to complete its monthly bond buying program in early 2022 and increased expectations of interest rate hikes in 2022. 

While mobility and economic activity continued to improve through the year, two COVID-19 variants emerged and spread globally in 2021. The Delta variant had surges earlier in the year, temporarily slowing the economic recovery. At year-end, the Omicron variant spread globally and is more contagious than its predecessors. 

The focus in 2022 will be on the tightening of monetary policy and public management of the COVID-19 pandemic. This could lead to an increase in market price volatility driven by the pace of monetary policy tightening as well as persistent inflation. 

Trading portfolios Trading VaR generates primarily from the MSS segment of GBM. Portfolios comprise mainly foreign exchange products, precious metals (i.e., gold, silver, platinum) and credit default swaps. 

Trading VaR at December 31, 2021 was relatively flat as compared with December 31, 2020 as MSS continued to focus on customer facilitation and credit portfolio management. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The following graph summarizes daily VaR for our trading portfolios at a 99 percent confidence level (in millions): 

The following table summarizes our trading VaR for 2021 and at 2020: 

##TABLE_START Foreign exchange and commodity Interest rate Credit Spread Portfolio Diversification (1) 

Total (2) 

&#160; (in millions) At December 31, 2021 $ 3 &#160; $ 5 &#160; $ 5 &#160; $ (4) $ 9 &#160; Full Year 2021 Average 3 &#160; 7 &#160; 2 &#160; (4) 8 &#160; Maximum 6 &#160; 10 &#160; 9 &#160; 12 &#160; Minimum 1 &#160; 4 &#160; &#8212; &#160; 6 &#160; At December 31, 2020 $ 3 $ 7 $ 2 $ (5) $ 7 Full Year 2020 Average 2 8 2 (3) 9 Maximum 5 14 4 15 Minimum 1 5 &#8212; 6 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, foreign exchange, interest rate and credit spread, together in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures. 

(2) The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects. For presentation purposes, portfolio diversification of the VaR for trading portfolios includes VaR-based risk-not-in-VaR. 

Back-testing We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing them against hypothetical profit and loss that excludes non-modeled items such as fees, commissions and revenues of intra-day transactions from the actual reported profit and loss. We would expect, under stable market conditions, to see two or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99 percent confidence level over a one-year period. However, in periods of unstable market conditions, we could see an increase in the number of back-testing exceptions. 

During 2021, we experienced no loss back-testing exceptions. 

Non-trading portfolios Non-trading VaR predominantly relates to Markets Treasury and represents the potential negative changes in the investment portfolio market value (which includes available-for-sale and held-to-maturity assets) and associated hedges. Our investment portfolio holdings comprise mainly U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed and U.S. Government sponsored mortgage-backed securities. Our non-trading VaR exposure is driven by interest rates and agency spread volatility. 

Non-trading VaR was higher at December 31, 2021 as compared with December 31, 2020 due to the impact of higher yields on our investment portfolio. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

The following table summarizes our non-trading VaR for 2021 and at 2020: 

##TABLE_START Interest rate Credit Spread Portfolio Diversification (1) 

Total (1) 

&#160; (in millions) At December 31, 2021 $ 84 &#160; $ 62 &#160; $ (34) $ 112 &#160; Full Year 2021 Average 98 &#160; 63 &#160; (52) 109 &#160; Maximum 134 &#160; 83 &#160; 152 &#160; Minimum 61 &#160; 51 &#160; 72 &#160; At December 31, 2020 $ 69 $ 66 $ (66) $ 69 Full Year 2020 Average 73 65 (65) 73 Maximum 109 106 108 Minimum 29 38 46 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

(1) Refer to the Trading VaR table above for additional information. 

Non-trading VaR also includes the interest rate risk of non-trading financial assets and liabilities held by the global businesses and transfer priced into Markets Treasury which has the mandate to centrally manage and hedge it. Interest rate swaps used by Markets Treasury to hedge the interest rate risk of the investment portfolio and transfer price risk from the banking book are typically classified as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge and included within our non-trading VaR. In case there is residual market risk that cannot be efficiently and conveniently hedged by Markets Treasury they are managed by ALCO in segregated ALCO books. See "Treasury Risk Management" above for a broader discussion on how interest rate risk is managed. 

Stressed VaR The following table reflects stressed VaR at December 31, 2021 and 2020: 

##TABLE_START At December 31, 2021 2020 &#160; (in millions) Stressed VaR (1-day equivalent) $ 9 &#160; $ 9 &#160; ##TABLE_END

Stressed VaR at December 31, 2021 was flat as compared with December 31, 2020. 

Resilience Risk Management Resilience risk arises from failures or inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events. Sustained and significant operational disruptions are events that could affect the stability of the wider financial system, the viability of the bank and our industry peers, the ability of our customers to access critical services or the underlying trust of our customers and regulators as a result of a poorly managed operational event. 

We continue to prioritize our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing strategic growth. We deploy risk management oversight to the most material change programs across the organization and we ensure we have specialist risk teams in-place to provide expert oversight and guidance for highly technical areas of risk management. 

The Operational and Resilience Risk sub-function provides robust non-financial risk steward oversight of our businesses, functions, and critical business services, supported by effective and timely independent challenge. It provides guidance and stewardship about how we can prevent, adapt, and learn from resilience-related threats when something goes wrong. The Operational and Resilience Risk target operating model provides a consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk management oversight while operating effectively as part of a simplified non-financial risk structure. We view resilience risk across several risk types related to: third parties and supply-chains; data, technology and cybersecurity; transaction processing; protective security; business continuity; building unavailability; and workplace safety. 

The Operational &#38; Resilience Risk structure simplifies interactions with our key stakeholders by providing specialist skill and a single channel of contact, and actively challenges the business and delivers clear, consistent and credible responses, ensuring controls are being operated and risks are being managed. 

A principal senior management meeting for Operational and Resilience Risk governance is the Group Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, with an escalation path to the Group Risk Management Meeting. 

Operational Resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt, respond to, recover and learn from internal or external disruption, protecting customers, the markets we operate in and their economic stability. Resilience is measured by assessing whether we are able to continue to provide our most important services, within an agreed tolerance, during a severe but 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

plausible event. We accept that we will not be able to prevent all disruption, but we prioritize investment to continuously improve our response and recovery capability for our most important business services. 

Systems and cyber resilience The security of our information and technology infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our applications and processes while protecting our customers and the HSBC brand. In common with other financial institutions and multinational organizations, we face a growing threat of cyberattacks that continue to increase in sophistication. A failure of our defenses against such attacks could result in financial loss or the loss of customer data or other sensitive information which could undermine both our reputation and our ability to attract and retain our customers. As discussed above, cybersecurity risk is overseen by the Operational and Resilience Risk sub-function, with regular reporting of cyber risks to the RMM and the Board of Directors by both the First and Second LoD. We experienced cyberattacks in 2021, none of which resulted in material financial loss. We continue to mature our cyber intelligence capabilities as the cyber threat landscape evolves. These intelligence monitoring capabilities increase our agility and ability to respond with increased detection and response capabilities reducing potential exposure to cyber threats. Regulators have listed cybersecurity as one of their top concerns in 2021. Regulation continues to increase from multiple jurisdictions and perspectives, and is at times deployed without coordination with other regulators. HSBC is engaged with peer institutions and, in conjunction with them and the Cyber Risk Institute ("CRI"), developed a CRI Profile (previously known as a Financial Services Profile) which is recognized within the United States and globally. As part of this forum, we continue to meet with various U.S. regulators (e.g., the OCC, FRB, FDIC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, New York State Department of Financial Services, etc.) and other financial institutions to progress acceptance and utilization of the CRI Profile to address regulatory harmonization as it relates to cyber and information security. Cybersecurity will continue to be a strong focus of ongoing initiatives to strengthen the control environment and our readiness to respond in the event of an attack. 

Regulatory Compliance Risk Management &#160; Regulatory compliance risk arises from the risks associated with breaching our duty to clients and other counter-parties, inappropriate market conduct, and breaching other regulatory requirements. Regulatory compliance risk is measured by reference to identified metrics, key risk indicators, testing of controls by the three lines of defense, employee feedback, customer complaints and through regulatory feedback. Regulatory compliance risks are assessed through detailed assessments and reported to the RMM and the Board of Directors through the reporting of RAS metrics and the Regulatory Compliance Enterprise Risk Assessment report. Regulatory compliance risk is managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in regulatory requirements, establishing controls, and monitoring and testing controls to help ensure that the regulatory requirements are being adhered to. Proactive assessment and enhancement of controls is undertaken where required. 

The Second LoD risk stewards provide independent, objective oversight and challenge and promote a compliance-orientated culture, supporting the businesses in delivering fair outcomes for customers, maintaining the integrity of financial markets and achieving our strategic objectives. Any actual or potential regulatory breaches require prompt identification and escalation to the Regulatory Compliance function or other applicable risk stewards. Any major breaches, gaps, issues and emerging risks are escalated to RMM and the Board of Directors, as appropriate. 

The Compliance function oversees the management of regulatory compliance risk for laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards that align under its scope of oversight as the Second LoD risk steward. As a Board of Directors committee, the Risk Committee oversees our compliance risk management program (both Regulatory Compliance and Financial Crime Risk) as well as fiduciary matters as discussed further below. 

Fiduciary risk is a component of regulatory compliance risk and represents the risk of breaching fiduciary duties where we act in a fiduciary capacity as trustee, investment manager or as mandated by law or regulation. It is the risk associated with failing to offer services honestly and properly to clients in that capacity. Fiduciary risks reside in our WPB businesses (such as Investment Management, Personal Trust, Security Operation Services) and other business lines outside of WPB (such as Corporate Trust). The Risk Committee of the Board of Directors has oversight responsibility of the management of fiduciary risk. The Risk Committee has delegated day-to-day management and oversight responsibilities to management, whose primary oversight body for management of fiduciary activity is the Fiduciary Risk Management Meeting, chaired by the U.S. Head of Enterprise Compliance. The U.S. Head of Enterprise Compliance reports to the U.S. Chief Compliance Officer. 

Financial Crime Risk Management Financial crime risk management is the framework in place to identify and deter potential illegal activity from occurring by, at, or through the HSBC Group. It is embedded in our day-to-day operations and culture. 

The Financial Crime function ("FC") is led by the U.S. Head of Financial Crime, who reports to the U.S. Chief Compliance Officer. FC provides oversight to enable us to build on our achievements in managing financial crime risk effectively and to continue to strengthen financial crime detection, and anti-money laundering, sanctions, fraud, tax evasion and anti-bribery and corruption compliance. We use a Financial Crime Risk Management Information Dashboard to monitor risk and performance indicators of financial crime, including trends and potential gaps in the management of financial crime risk that require attention. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Compliance continues to proactively identify, analyze and investigate financial crime risk and ensure proper mitigation of these risks. It embeds policies and procedures, introduces new technology solutions, and supports a culture of compliance needed to effectively manage financial crime risk, including the enterprise wide compliance risk management program. 

Strategic Risk Management Strategic risk may be mitigated by consideration of the potential opportunities and challenges through the strategic planning process. This risk is also a function of the compatibility of our strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against those goals and the quality of implementation. 

We have established a strong internal control structure to minimize the impact of strategic risk to our earnings and capital. All changes in strategy as well as the process in which new strategies are implemented are subject to detailed reviews and approvals at business line, functional, regional, board and HSBC levels. This process is monitored by the Strategy and Planning function to ensure compliance with our policies and standards. 

Reputational risk is a component of strategic risk and represents the risk arising from failure to meet stakeholder expectations as a result of any event, behavior, action or inaction, either by us, our employees, the HSBC Group or those with whom it is associated, that may cause stakeholders to form a negative view of us. Reputational risk relates to stakeholders' perceptions, whether based on fact or otherwise. Stakeholder expectations are constantly changing and thus, reputational risk is dynamic and will differ between geographies, groups and individuals. This might also result in financial or non-financial impacts, loss of confidence or other consequences. The safeguarding of our reputation is of paramount importance to our continued prosperity and is the responsibility of every member of our staff. Reputational risk can arise from social, ethical or environmental issues, or as a consequence of operational and other risk events. Our good reputation depends upon the way in which we conduct our business, but can also be affected by the way in which customers to whom we provide financial services conduct themselves. 

We tolerate a limited degree of reputational risk arising from business activities or association where foreseeable reputational risk has been escalated to the appropriate level of management, carefully considered and/or mitigated and is determined to fall to acceptable risk thresholds as defined by the HSBC Group risk appetite statement. Since reputational risk can arise from all aspects of operations and activities, all businesses and functions are required to articulate and track reputational risk. 

Reputational risk is considered and assessed by the HSBC Group Executive Committee, the HSBC Group, and senior management. The Risk Committee of the Board of Directors reviews, with senior management, and as appropriate, approves guidelines and policies related to the process for assessing and managing risk topics, including reputational risk. These policies, which are an integral part of the internal control systems, are communicated through manuals and statements of policy, internal communication and training. The policies form the basis for operational procedures, as well as consideration of reputational risk in areas including money laundering deterrence, economic sanctions, environmental impact, anti-corruption measures, employee relations, inappropriate market conduct and breach of regulatory duty and requirements. In addition, we continue to review our internal control structure to minimize the risk of operational and financial failure and to ensure that a full appraisal of reputational risk is made before strategic decisions are taken. 

The RMM provides governance and oversight of reputational risk. Additionally, each business reviews transactions and customers that may adversely affect our public perception via their RRCSC. The RRCSCs are chaired by a senior executive and comprise senior members from the business, risk, legal, financial crime and compliance departments and other invited parties. The RRCSCs are responsible for reviewing the individual merits and involved parties in higher-risk transactions, and approving or declining customer relationships and transactions based on the potential risks to us. In addition to the RRCSCs, the responsibility of the practical implementation of such policies and the compliance with the letter and spirit of them rests with our CEO and senior management of our businesses. 

Model Risk Management In order to manage the risk of inappropriate or incorrect business decisions (e.g. customer conduct, financial crime, pricing, profit &#38; loss and balance sheet and capital reporting, etc.) arising from models that have been inadequately designed, implemented or used; or that models do not perform in line with expectations and predictions, a comprehensive model risk management framework has been established that provides oversight and challenge to all models across HSBC North America. The framework includes a Model Risk Policy that aligns with model risk management regulations. A model inventory is maintained and updated. In addition, model risk appetite measures are used to manage and monitor model risk. Model risk is managed on an ongoing basis as part of a Model Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CRO with representation from businesses and functions. The Independent Model Review team, which is part of the Model Risk Management function, is responsible for providing effective challenge to models and critical processes implemented for use within HSBC North America. Model risk controls that form the basis for model risk control assessments have been implemented for all of our businesses and functions and are being used to manage and mitigate model risk. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Basis point &#160;&#8211; A unit that is commonly used to calculate changes in interest rates. The relationship between percentage changes and basis points can be summarized as a 1 percent change equals a 100 basis point change or .01 percent change equals 1 basis point. 

CDS &#8211; Credit Default Swap. 

Contractual Delinquency &#160;&#8211; A method of determining aging of past due accounts based on the past due status of payments under the loan. Delinquency status may be affected by customer account management policies and practices such as the re-age of accounts or modification arrangements. 

Delinquency Ratio &#160;&#8211; Two-months-and-over contractual delinquency expressed as a percentage of total loans at a given date. 

Efficiency Ratio &#8211; Total operating expenses expressed as a percentage of the sum of net interest income and other revenues. 

First Line of Defense or First LoD &#8211; Part of the Three Lines of Defense ("LoD") model for managing risk. The First LoD is composed predominately of management who are accountable and responsible for their day to day activities, processes and controls. The First LoD owns the risks and is responsible for identifying, recording, reporting and managing risks, and ensuring that the right controls and assessments are in place to mitigate them. 

FRB &#8211; The Federal Reserve Board; our principal regulator. 

Futures Contract &#160;&#8211; An exchange-traded contract to buy or sell a stated amount of a financial instrument or index at a specified future date and price. 

Global Bank Note Program &#8211; A $40 billion note program, under which HSBC Bank USA issues senior and subordinated debt. 

Goodwill &#8211; The excess of purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired, reduced by liabilities assumed in a business combination. 

Group Reporting Basis &#8211; A measure of reporting results using financial information prepared on the basis of HSBC Group's accounting and reporting policies which apply International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 

HQLA - High Quality Liquid Assets; cash or assets that can be converted into cash quickly through sales (or by being pledged as collateral) with no significant loss of value. 

Interest Rate Swap &#160;&#8211; Contract between two parties to exchange interest payments on a stated principal amount (notional principal) for a specified period. Typically, one party makes fixed rate payments, while the other party makes payments using a variable rate. 

LIBOR &#160;&#8211; London Interbank Offered Rate; a widely quoted market rate which is frequently the index used to determine the rate at which we borrow funds. 

Liquidity &#160;&#8211; A measure of how quickly we can convert assets to cash or raise additional cash by issuing debt. 

Loan-to-Value ("LTV") Ratio &#160;&#8211; For first liens, the current loan balance expressed as a percentage of the current property value. For second liens, the current loan balance plus the senior lien amount at origination expressed as a percentage of the current property value. 

Markets Treasury - Is responsible for managing our liquidity and funding. Markets Treasury also manages our structural interest rate position within a limit structure. 

Net Charge-off Ratio &#160;&#8211; Net charge-offs of loans expressed as a percentage of average loans outstanding for a given period. 

Net Interest Income &#8211; Interest income earned on interest-bearing assets less interest expense on deposits and borrowed funds. 

Net Interest Margin &#8211; Net interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest earning assets for a given period. 

Nonaccrual Loans &#8211; Loans on which we no longer accrue interest because ultimate collection is unlikely. 

Nonperforming Ratio - Nonaccrual loans and accruing loans contractually 90 days or more past due expressed as a percentage of total loans at a given date. 

OCC &#8211; The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the principal regulator for HSBC Bank USA. 

Options &#160;&#8211; A contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified item at a fixed price for a specified period. 

Rate of Return on Common Equity &#8211; Net income (loss), reduced by preferred dividends, divided by average common equity for a given period. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

Rate of Return on Tangible Common Equity - Net income (loss), reduced by preferred dividends, divided by average common equity less goodwill and intangible assets (purchased credit card relationships) for a given period. 

Rate of Return on Total Assets &#8211; Net income (loss) divided by average total assets for a given period. 

Rate of Return on Total Equity &#8211; Net income (loss) divided by average total equity for a given period. 

Residential Mortgage Loan &#8211; Closed-end loans and revolving lines of credit secured by first or second liens on residential real estate. Depending on the type of residential mortgage, interest can either be fixed or adjustable. 

SEC &#160;&#8211; The Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Second Line of Defense or Second LoD &#8211; Part of the Three LoD model for managing risk. The Second LoD is composed predominately of various functions, such as Finance, Legal, Risk, Compliance and Human Resources, whose role as risk stewards is to set the policy and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provide advice and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenge the First LoD on effective risk management. 

TDR Loans &#8211; Troubled debt restructurings, which are loans for which the original contractual terms have been modified to provide for terms that are less than we would be willing to accept for new loans with comparable risk because of deterioration in the borrower's financial condition. 

Third Line of Defense or Third LoD &#8211; Part of the Three LoD model for managing risk. The Third LoD is composed of our Internal Audit function, which provides independent and objective assurance of the adequacy of the design and operational effectiveness of our risk management framework and governance control process. 

Three Lines of Defense Model &#8211; This model delineates management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the control environment and underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying responsibilities, encouraging collaboration and enabling efficient coordination of risk and control activities. 

Total Equity to Total Assets &#8211; Total equity expressed as a percentage of total assets as of a given date. 

U.S. GAAP &#160;&#8211; Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. 

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCES AND INTEREST RATES 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

The following table summarizes the year-to-date average daily balances of the principal components of assets, liabilities and equity together with their respective interest amounts and rates earned or paid. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by the average interest earning assets from which interest income is earned. Loan interest for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 included fees of $88 million, $79 million and $77 million, respectively. 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Average Balance Interest Rate Average Balance Interest Rate Average Balance Interest Rate &#160; (dollars are in millions) Assets: Interest bearing deposits with banks 

$ 50,787 &#160; $ 68 &#160; .13 &#160; % $ 21,807 $ 74 .34 % $ 13,850 $ 347 2.51 % Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 

7,958 &#160; 13 &#160; .16 &#160; 16,046 69 .43 6,372 226 3.55 Trading securities 18,518 &#160; 225 &#160; 1.22 &#160; 21,237 288 1.36 21,707 291 1.34 Securities 42,736 &#160; 641 &#160; 1.50 &#160; 51,882 897 1.73 49,625 1,188 2.39 Loans: Commercial 40,677 &#160; 1,048 &#160; 2.58 &#160; 50,463 1,484 2.94 51,296 2,089 4.07 Consumer: Residential mortgages 18,582 &#160; 543 &#160; 2.92 &#160; 18,326 592 3.23 17,563 622 3.54 Home equity mortgages 658 &#160; 18 &#160; 2.74 &#160; 788 24 3.05 909 45 4.95 Credit cards 803 &#160; 77 &#160; 9.59 &#160; 1,197 77 6.43 1,172 77 6.57 Other consumer 277 &#160; 19 &#160; 6.86 &#160; 281 25 8.90 259 23 8.88 Total consumer 20,320 &#160; 657 &#160; 3.23 &#160; 20,592 718 3.49 19,903 767 3.85 Total loans 60,997 &#160; 1,705 &#160; 2.80 &#160; 71,055 2,202 3.10 71,199 2,856 4.01 Other 2,535 &#160; 23 &#160; .91 &#160; 5,175 42 .81 3,722 82 2.20 Total interest earning assets $ 183,531 &#160; $ 2,675 &#160; 1.46 &#160; % $ 187,202 $ 3,572 1.91 % $ 166,475 $ 4,990 3.00 % Allowance for credit losses (699) (932) (609) Cash and due from banks 1,198 &#160; 1,172 1,251 Other assets 12,424 &#160; 13,956 11,912 Total assets $ 196,454 &#160; $ 201,398 $ 179,029 Liabilities and Equity: 

Domestic deposits: Savings deposits $ 65,316 &#160; $ 104 &#160; .16 &#160; % $ 62,218 $ 266 .43 % $ 47,652 $ 461 .97 % Time deposits 12,729 &#160; 93 &#160; .73 &#160; 26,485 377 1.42 26,833 743 2.77 Other interest bearing deposits 20,571 &#160; 58 &#160; .28 &#160; 19,850 103 .52 11,615 231 1.99 Foreign deposits 6,102 &#160; 2 &#160; .03 &#160; 5,503 9 .16 5,011 40 .80 Deposits held for sale 4,606 &#160; 10 &#160; .21 &#160; &#8212; &#8212; &#8212; 1 &#8212; .59 Total interest bearing deposits 109,324 &#160; 267 &#160; .24 &#160; 114,056 755 .66 91,112 1,475 1.62 Short-term borrowings: Securities sold under repurchase agreements 1,739 &#160; 2 &#160; .12 &#160; 4,768 33 .70 4,130 135 3.28 Commercial paper 3,274 &#160; 13 &#160; .40 &#160; 2,930 32 1.09 2,842 74 2.60 Other short-term borrowings 264 &#160; 3 &#160; 1.14 &#160; 435 4 .92 836 22 2.63 Total short-term borrowings 5,277 &#160; 18 &#160; .34 &#160; 8,133 69 .85 7,808 231 2.96 Long-term debt 18,897 &#160; 296 &#160; 1.57 &#160; 23,407 558 2.38 30,102 1,137 3.78 Total interest bearing debt 133,498 &#160; 581 &#160; .44 &#160; 145,596 1,382 .95 129,022 2,843 2.20 Tax liabilities and other 885 &#160; 11 &#160; 1.24 &#160; 678 16 2.36 985 35 3.55 Total interest bearing liabilities $ 134,383 &#160; $ 592 &#160; .44 &#160; % $ 146,274 $ 1,398 .96 % $ 130,007 $ 2,878 2.21 % Net interest income/Interest rate spread 

$ 2,083 &#160; 1.02 &#160; % $ 2,174 .95 % $ 2,112 .79 % Noninterest bearing deposits 38,147 &#160; 28,881 23,102 Other liabilities 5,763 &#160; 7,904 7,176 Total equity 18,161 &#160; 18,339 18,744 Total liabilities and equity 

$ 196,454 &#160; $ 201,398 $ 179,029 Net interest margin on average earning assets 

1.13 &#160; % 1.16 % 1.27 % ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START HSBC USA Inc. ##TABLE_END

