 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Investing in Pinnacle Financial involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. We believe all significant risks to investors in Pinnacle Financial have been outlined in Part II, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. However, other risks may prove to be important in the future, and new risks may emerge at any time. We cannot predict with certainty all potential developments which could materially affect our financial performance or condition. There has been no material change to our risk factors as previously disclosed in the above described Annual Report on Form 10-K except as set forth below: 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting our business and the businesses of a significant percentage of our customers as well as certain of our third-party vendors and service providers, and the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, capital, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public health crisis that has resulted in uncertainty, volatility and deterioration in financial markets and in governmental, commercial and consumer activity including in the United States, where we conduct substantially all of our activity. 

To combat the spread of COVID-19, federal, state and local governments have taken a variety of actions that have materially and adversely affected the businesses and lives of our customers. These actions have included orders closing non-essential businesses and restricting movement of individuals through the issuance of safer-at-home orders and other guidance encouraging individuals to observe strict social distancing measures. At times, the actions being taken by governmental authorities are not always coordinated or consistent across states or even within states and the impact of those actions across our markets may be uneven. These actions, together with the independent actions of individuals and businesses aimed at slowing the spread of the virus, have resulted in extensive economic disruption and rapid declines in consumer and commercial activity. Many businesses are experiencing significant declines in revenue and there has been a rapid rise in unemployment rates throughout our markets with corresponding negative effects on consumer spending and behavior. Global supply chains have also been negatively impacted as have equity and debt markets. Whether the efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19 will be successful is unknown at this time as in recent weeks the number of cases, hospitalizations and deaths in some of our markets has trended upward, and continued spread of the disease or continuation of higher levels of cases, hospitalizations and deaths over the remainder of 2020 or into 2021 will further negatively impact the businesses and lives of our customers and our results of operations. 

In March 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target Federal funds rate by 150 basis points and for a portion of March 2020 the 10-year treasury bond rate fell to below 1.00% for the first time in history. These actions, and other actions being taken by governmental and regulatory agencies affecting monetary policy in response to the unprecedented challenges resulting from the spread of COVID-19, have negatively impacted our net interest margin and our results and are likely to continue to negatively impact our net interest margin and our results throughout the remainder of 2020 and into 2021. The fair values of certain of our investments are also likely to remain depressed or further decline as a result of COVID-19. 

As a result of COVID-19, many of our borrowers, particularly those that operate in the restaurant, entertainment, hospitality and retail sectors, but also other businesses as well, including owners of commercial real estate properties and hotels, are experiencing varying degrees of financial distress, which is expected to continue, and may possibly increase, over the coming months. As a result, these borrowers may have difficulty paying, on a timely basis, interest and principal payments on their loans and the value of collateral securing these obligations may be adversely impacted as well. Though we have offered these borrowers, and others, the ability to defer interest and/or principal payments for 90 days which we may extend for an additional 90 days, these borrowers may still be experiencing distress. As a result, these borrowers may have difficulty satisfying their obligations to us. Disruptions to our customers&#8217; businesses, together with volatility in the stock market, could also result in declines to our wealth management revenues. 

The economic pressures and uncertainties arising from the COVID-19 pandemic may result in specific changes in consumer and business spending and borrowing and saving habits, affecting the demand for loans and other products and services we offer. These economic pressures may be more severe, and changes in behavior more pronounced, if additional government stimulus programs are not timely approved, or approved at all, or if they do not provide sufficient relief when approved. Consumers affected by COVID-19 may continue to demonstrate changed behavior even after the crisis is over. For example, consumers may decrease discretionary spending on a permanent or long-term basis and, certain industries may take longer to recover (particularly those that rely on travel or large gatherings) as consumers may be hesitant to return to full social interaction. We lend to customers operating in such industries including restaurants, hotels/lodging, entertainment, retail and commercial real estate, among others, that have been significantly impacted by COVID-19 and we are continuing to monitor these customers closely. The potential changes in behaviors driven by COVID-19 also present heightened liquidity risks, for example, arising from increased demand for our products and services (such as elevated levels of draws on credit facilities) or decreased demand for our products and services (such as idiosyncratic, or broad-based, market or other developments that lead to deposit outflows). 

Like our borrowers, BHG&#8217;s borrowers have been similarly affected by COVID-19. Many of BHG&#8217;s borrowers are medical or dental practices that were particularly impacted by safer-at-home orders that effectively caused those practices&#8217; revenues to decline materially as a result of elective procedures being prohibited, cancelled or delayed or individuals&#8217; decisions to postpone non-emergency procedures, even as restrictions on elective procedures are relaxed. Though these borrowers' businesses have improved over the last three months, increased levels of cases and renewed government mandated closures and restrictions could again negatively impact these borrowers' businesses. For those loans that BHG has sold through its auction platform, BHG may at its sole discretion, in response to a request from a purchaser of a loan, agree to substitute a performing loan for one that has become past due. If requests for substitutions increase, and BHG opts to provide the substitution. BHG&#8217;s credit losses may likewise increase and its results of operations would be adversely impacted. 

COVID-19&#8217;s economic disruption has also impacted many states and municipalities. As a result, many states and municipalities are facing a strain on resources and a reduction in tax collections and some of these have sought assistance from the Federal government to cover the cost of resource depletion and tax shortfalls. The ability of states and municipalities to fund shortfalls could have an adverse effect on their ability to sustain debt maintenance obligations which would negatively impact the value of our municipal bond portfolio if we hold bonds issued by those states or municipalities. 

Banks and bank holding companies have been particularly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. This disruption has impacted our cost of capital and may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets if we need or desire to do so and, although the ultimate impact cannot be reliably estimated at this time in light of the uncertainties and ongoing developments noted herein, such impacts could be material. Furthermore, bank regulatory agencies have been (and are expected to continue to be) very proactive in responding to both market and supervisory concerns arising from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the potential impact on customers, especially borrowers. As shown during and following the financial crisis, periods of economic and financial disruption and stress have, in the past, resulted in increased scrutiny of banking organizations. We are closely monitoring the potential for new laws and regulations impacting lending and funding practices as well as capital and liquidity standards. Such changes could require us to maintain significantly more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the composition of our assets and liabilities to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements. Furthermore, provisions of the CARES Act allow, but do not require, the FDIC to guarantee deposit obligations of banks in non-interest-bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2020. Participation in any such guarantee program may result in fees and other assessments as the FDIC determines and may include special assessments. Other provisions of the CARES Act as well as actions taken by bank regulators, such as potential relief for working with borrowers who are distressed as a result of the effects of COVID-19, could similarly impact aggregate deposit insurance expense. 

As we have sought to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers during the pandemic, we have taken numerous actions to modify our business operations, including restricting employee travel, directing a significant percentage of our employees that were able to do so to work from home, closing the lobbies of many of our branches, and in some cases the branch itself, and implementing our business continuity plans and protocols. We may take further actions in the future either of our own volition or as a result of government orders or directives. Though we believe we have been able to adequately service our clients under these restrictions, we cannot provide any assurances that our ability to do so wouldn&#8217;t be negatively impacted if additional restrictions are necessary or imposed on us in the future, including if key employees of ours or a significant number of our associates become ill as a result of contracting the virus. Given our preference for hiring experienced lenders the average age of an associate of ours may be higher than many of our peers and those of our associates who are of an age that puts them in a higher risk category may be more susceptible to contracting the virus. We rely on the services of various key vendors and business partners to service our clients and if those companies&#8217; businesses or workforces are impacted in ways similar to those that may impact our business, our ability to service our customers could be impacted. 

The economic uncertainty caused by COVID-19&#8217;s spread and the efforts of government and non-governmental authorities and the behavior of individuals seeking to slow its spread, have caused our provision expense for credit losses to increase materially in the 

first nine months of 2020 and may contribute to further elevated levels of provision expense through the duration of the pandemic and any recovery period following its end. Increased provision levels would negatively impact our capital levels which may impact our ability to pay dividends or cause us to need to access the capital markets to support our capital needs. We have also taken efforts to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and those efforts have caused, and may continue to cause, our net interest margin to be adversely impacted. 

COVID-19 has not yet been contained, and given the ongoing and fluid nature of the country&#8217;s response to the pandemic, it is difficult for us to accurately estimate the length and severity of the economic disruption being caused by COVID-19. As a result, the extent to which our results of operations, provision expense, capital levels, liquidity ratios and published credit ratings will be impacted is difficult to predict. 

Our participation in the PPP may expose us to financial liability, credit losses, compliance costs or reputational damage. 

Under the CARES Act, Congress created the PPP and authorized the Treasury to implement rules regarding the program. Banks, like us, and non-bank lenders, including BHG, facilitated funding under the program on behalf of the SBA for borrowers that were eligible participants. Since the roll out of the PPP, Treasury has issued rules and other interpretive guidance seeking to address uncertainty surrounding the program and its eligibility and other criteria. This constantly changing guidance caused challenges for us and other lenders under the program, like BHG, in finalizing and submitting applications. We are beginning to receive and process requests from our customers for forgiveness of their obligations under their PPP loans and again comprehensive guidance is lacking from the Treasury and SBA on how to process these requests. As a result, we, and other lenders under the PPP, may face criticism from customers or others that are seeking forgiveness. This criticism could cause reputational damage to us and there is a possibility that customers or others may threaten and pursue legal action against banks and other lenders like us and BHG under the program. 

Among other regulatory requirements, PPP loans are subject to forbearance of loan payments for a ten-month period to the extent that loans are not eligible for forgiveness. If PPP borrowers fail to qualify for loan forgiveness, including by failing to use the funds appropriately in order to qualify for forgiveness under the program, we and BHG have a greater risk of holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates. In addition, because of the short time period between the passing of the CARES Act and the implementation of the PPP, there is ambiguity in the laws, rules, and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us and BHG to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. There is risk that the SBA or another governmental entity could conclude there is a deficiency in the manner in which we or BHG originated, funded, or serviced PPP loans, which may or may not be related to the ambiguity in the CARES Act or the rules and guidance promulgated by the SBA and the Treasury regarding the operation of the PPP. In the event of such deficiency, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already made payment under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from us or BHG. 

Since the commencement of the PPP, several banks have been subject to litigation regarding the process and procedures that such banks followed in accepting and processing applications for the PPP. We and BHG may be exposed to the risk of similar litigation, from both customers and non-customers that contacted us or BHG regarding obtaining PPP loans with respect to the processes and procedures we or BHG used in processing applications for the PPP. Legal proceedings related to our or BHG&#8217;s participation in the PPP, like the purported class action lawsuit filed against our bank subsidiary in June 2020 that has subsequently been voluntarily dismissed, though the plaintiff could file the suit again, alleges, among other claims, that our bank subsidiary failed to pay fees to purported agents of PPP borrowers that the plaintiff alleges were owed under the PPP in violation of SBA regulations, if not resolved in a manner that is favorable to us, or BHG, may result in significant financial liability to us or BHG, or adversely affect our, or BHG&#8217;s results of operations, financial condition or reputation. In addition, litigation can be costly, regardless of outcome. Any financial liability, litigation costs, or reputational damage caused by PPP-related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our or BHG's reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

In addition, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny regarding our processing of PPP applications or forgiveness requests or our origination or servicing of PPP loans. While the SBA has said that in many instances, banks may rely on the certifications of borrowers regarding their eligibility for PPP loans, we do have several obligations under the PPP, and if the SBA found that we did not meet those obligations, the remedies the SBA may seek against us are unknown but may include not guarantying the PPP loans resulting in credit exposure to borrowers who may be unable to repay their loans. The PPP may also attract significant interest from federal and state enforcement authorities, oversight agencies, regulators, and Congressional committees. State Attorneys General and other federal and state agencies may assert that they are not subject to the provisions of the CARES Act and the PPP regulations entitling us to rely on borrower certifications, and take more aggressive action against us for alleged violations of the provisions governing our participation in the PPP. 

Additional issuances of preferred stock or securities convertible into preferred stock may further dilute existing holders of the depositary shares. 

We may determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where we determine it is necessary, to issue additional shares of preferred stock, securities convertible into, exchangeable for, or that represent an interest in preferred stock, or preferred stock-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders, including issuing additional shares of our 6.75% fixed rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series B (Series B preferred stock) or additional depositary shares. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over the Series B preferred stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, liquidation or winding-up and other terms. 

Although the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding shares of the Series B preferred stock, voting together as a single class with any parity stock having similar voting rights, is required to authorize or issue any shares of capital stock senior in rights and preferences to the Series B preferred stock, if we issue preferred stock or depositary shares in the future with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the Series B preferred stock or depositary shares, the rights of holders of the depositary shares or the market price of the depositary shares could be adversely affected. The market price of the depositary shares could decline as a result of these other offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of depositary shares, Series B preferred stock, or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. Holders of the Series B preferred stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. 

Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of the depositary shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of the depositary shares and diluting their holdings in the depositary shares. 

Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited. 

While our board of directors has approved the payment of a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock since the fourth quarter of 2013 and approved the payment of the quarterly dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock (and underlying depositary shares) since issuance, there can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends on our capital stock in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our and Pinnacle Bank&#8217;s capital levels. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited by the terms of our Series B preferred stock which provides that if we have not paid dividends on the Series B preferred stock for the most recently completed dividend period, then no dividend or distribution shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on shares of our common stock. 

Our principal source of funds used to pay cash dividends on our common stock will be cash we may hold from time to time as well as dividends that we receive from Pinnacle Bank. Although Pinnacle Bank&#8217;s asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account before we declare or pay any future dividends on our common stock, our board of directors will also consider our liquidity and capital requirements and our board of directors could determine to declare and pay dividends without relying on dividend payments from Pinnacle Bank. 

Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends we may declare and pay and that Pinnacle Bank may declare and pay to us. For example, Federal Reserve regulations implementing the capital rules required under Basel III do not permit dividends unless capital levels exceed certain higher levels applying capital conservation buffers. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued supervisory guidance advising bank holding companies to eliminate, defer or reduce dividends paid on common stock and other forms of Tier 1 capital, like the Series B preferred stock, where the company&#8217;s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, the company&#8217;s prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the company&#8217;s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition or the company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. Recent supplements to this guidance reiterate the need for bank holding companies to inform their applicable reserve bank sufficiently in advance of the proposed payment of a dividend in certain circumstances. 

In addition, subject to certain exceptions, the terms of our subordinated debentures, including the subordinated debentures we assumed upon the consummation of the BNC merger, prohibit us from paying dividends on shares of our capital stock at times when we are deferring the payment of interest on such subordinated debentures. 

The Series B preferred stock constitutes an equity security and ranks junior to all of our and our subsidiaries&#8217; existing indebtedness and will rank junior to our and our subsidiaries&#8217; future indebtedness. 

Shares of the Series B preferred stock are equity interests in Pinnacle Financial and do not constitute indebtedness. Accordingly, shares of the Series B preferred stock and the related depositary shares are and will be junior in right of payment to any existing and all future indebtedness and other non-equity claims of Pinnacle Financial with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on us, including in a liquidation of Pinnacle Financial. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the Series B preferred stock and any parity stock only after all of our liabilities have been paid and any obligations we owe on any securities that rank senior to the Series B preferred stock then outstanding, if any, have been satisfied. In case of such bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the Series B preferred stock will rank equally with any parity stock in the distribution of our assets. Holders of the depositary shares may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation or similar proceeding. In addition, our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payment of dividends on the Series B preferred stock. 

The Series B preferred stock and the depositary shares representing the Series B preferred stock effectively rank junior to any existing and all future liabilities of our subsidiaries. 

We are a financial holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our right to participate in any distribution of the assets of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation, reorganization, receivership or conservatorship of any subsidiary (and thus the ability of the holder of the Series B preferred stock and the holders of the depositary shares to benefit indirectly from such distribution) will rank junior to the prior claims of that subsidiary&#8217;s creditors. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after paying our and our subsidiaries&#8217; liabilities, to pay amounts due on any or all of the Series B preferred stock and the depositary shares representing the Series B preferred stock then outstanding. 

We, together with Pinnacle Bank, own 49% of the outstanding equity interests of BHG. Our right to participate in any distribution of the assets of BHG upon its liquidation, reorganization, receivership or conservatorship (and thus the ability of the holders of the Series B preferred stock and the holders of the depositary shares to benefit indirectly from such distribution) will rank junior to the prior claims of BHG&#8217;s creditors. Moreover, our 49% ownership interest in BHG and minority board representation on BHG&#8217;s board means that we, and Pinnacle Bank, cannot on our own cause BHG to make distributions to us and Pinnacle Bank that could be used to pay dividends on the Series B preferred stock. In addition, BHG is a party to various loan agreements pursuant to which BHG&#8217;s ability to make distributions to us may be limited. 

The Series B preferred stock and the depositary shares representing the Series B preferred stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the limited voting rights of the shares of Series B preferred stock. The holders of the Series B preferred stock, and therefore the holders of the depositary shares representing the Series B preferred stock, have limited voting rights. 

Dividends on the Series B preferred stock are non-cumulative and discretionary. If we do not declare dividends on the Series B preferred stock, holders of the depositary shares will not be entitled to receive related distributions on their depositary shares. 

Dividends on the Series B preferred stock are non-cumulative and discretionary, not mandatory. Consequently, if our board of directors does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, the holder of the Series B preferred stock, and therefore the holders of the depositary shares, will not be entitled to receive a dividend for such period, and such undeclared dividend will not accrue and be payable. We will have no obligation to pay dividends for such dividend period, whether or not dividends are authorized and declared for any subsequent dividend period with respect to the Series B preferred stock. Our board of directors may determine that it would be in our best interests to pay less than the full amount of the stated dividends on the Series B preferred stock or no dividend for any dividend period even if funds are available. Factors that would be considered by our board of directors in making this determination include our financial condition, liquidity and capital needs, the impact of current and pending legislation and regulations, economic conditions, including worsening economic conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, our ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the Series B preferred stock, any credit agreements to which we are a party, tax considerations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. 

Unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series B preferred stock dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board and as a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds as described elsewhere in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The holders of the Series B preferred stock, and therefore the holders of the depositary shares representing the Series B preferred stock, have limited voting rights. 

Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series B preferred stock for six quarterly dividend periods, whether consecutive or not, the holders of the Series B preferred stock, and therefore the holders of the depositary shares, have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders, except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series B preferred stock, and except as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange or quotation system on which the Series B preferred stock is listed, traded or quoted or by Tennessee law. If dividends on the Series B preferred stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether consecutive or not, the holders of Series B preferred stock, voting together as a class with any other equally ranked series of preferred stock that have similar voting rights then outstanding, if any, will have the right, at the first annual meeting or special meeting held thereafter and at subsequent annual meetings, to elect two directors to our board. The terms of the additional directors so elected will end upon the payment or setting aside for payment by us of continuous noncumulative dividends for at least four dividend periods on the Series B preferred stock and any other equally ranked series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any. 

Holders of the depositary shares must act through the depositary to exercise any voting rights of the Series B preferred stock. Although each depositary share is entitled to 1/40th of a vote, the depositary can only vote whole shares of Series B preferred stock. While the depositary will vote the maximum number of whole shares of Preferred Stock in accordance with the instructions it receives, any remaining fractional votes of holders of the depositary shares will not be voted. 

The price of our capital stock may be volatile or may decline. 

The trading price of our capital stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock. Among the factors that could affect the trading prices of our capital stock are: 

&#8226;actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition; 

&#8226;changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; 

&#8226;failure to meet analysts&#8217; revenue or earnings estimates; 

&#8226;speculation in the press or investment community; 

&#8226;strategic actions by us or our competitors; 

&#8226;actions by institutional shareholders; 

&#8226;fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; 

&#8226;general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; 

&#8226;market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve; 

&#8226;proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; 

&#8226;changes in the political climate; 

&#8226;market reactions to social media messages or posts; 

&#8226;anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and 

&#8226;domestic and international economic and social factors unrelated to our performance. 

The trading price of the shares of our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our Series B preferred stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, our ability to pay dividends and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on trading prices of capital stock and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers&#8217; underlying financial strength. A significant decline in the trading price of our capital stock could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. 

An investment in our capital stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC. 

An investment in our capital stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in our capital stock is inherently risky for the reasons described herein and our shareholders will bear the risk of loss if the value or market price of our capital stock is adversely affected. 

