 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Investing in Pinnacle Financial involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. We believe all significant risks to investors in Pinnacle Financial have been outlined in Part II, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. However, other risks may prove to be important in the future, and new risks may emerge at any time. We cannot predict with certainty all potential developments which could materially affect our financial performance or condition. There has been no material change to our risk factors as previously disclosed in the above described Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q except as set forth below: 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting our business and the businesses of a significant percentage of our customers as well as certain of our third-party vendors and service providers, and the adverse impacts on our business, financial position, capital, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be significant. 

The spread of COVID-19 has created a global public health crisis that has resulted in uncertainty, volatility and deterioration in financial markets and in governmental, commercial and consumer activity including in the United States, where we conduct substantially all of our activity. 

To combat the spread of COVID-19, federal, state and local governments have taken a variety of actions that have materially and adversely affected the businesses and lives of our customers. These actions have included orders closing non-essential businesses and restricting movement of individuals through the issuance of safer-at-home orders and other guidance encouraging individuals to observe strict social distancing measures. At times, the actions being taken by governmental authorities are not always coordinated or consistent across states or even within states and the impact of those actions across our markets may be uneven. These actions, together with the independent actions of individuals and businesses aimed at slowing the spread of the virus, have resulted in extensive economic disruption and rapid declines in consumer and commercial activity. Many businesses are experiencing significant declines in revenue and there has been a rapid rise in unemployment rates throughout our markets with corresponding negative effects on consumer spending and behavior. Global supply chains have also been negatively impacted as have equity and debt markets. Whether the efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19 will be successful is unknown at this time, and continued spread of the disease or a recurrence later in 2020 or into 2021 will further negatively impact the businesses of our customers and our results of operations. 

In March 2020, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target Federal funds rate by 150 basis points and for a portion of March 2020 the 10-year treasury bond rate fell to below 1.00% for the first time in history. These actions, and other actions being taken by governmental and regulatory agencies affecting monetary policy in response to the unprecedented challenges resulting from the spread of COVID-19, have negatively impacted our net interest margin and our results and are likely to continue to negatively impact our net interest margin and our results throughout 2020. The fair values of certain of our investments are also likely to decline as a result of COVID-19. 

As a result of COVID-19, many of our borrowers, particularly those that operate in the restaurant, entertainment, hospitality, medical, dental, retail and construction sectors, but also other businesses as well, including owners of commercial real estate properties and hotels, are experiencing varying degrees of financial distress, which is expected to continue, and may likely increase, over the coming months. As a result, these borrowers will likely have difficulty paying, on a timely basis, interest and principal payments on their loans and the value of collateral securing these obligations is likely to be adversely impacted as well. Though we have offered these borrowers, and others, the ability to defer interest and principal payments for 90 days which we may extend for an additional 90 days, that deferral period may not be sufficient to allow the impacts of COVID-19 to have sufficiently subsided, and these borrowers may still be experiencing distress at the expiration of those deferral periods. As a result, these borrowers may have difficulty satisfying their obligations to us. Disruptions to our customers&#8217; businesses, together with volatility in the stock market, could also result in declines to our wealth management revenues. 

The economic pressures and uncertainties arising from the COVID-19 pandemic may result in specific changes in consumer and business spending and borrowing and saving habits, affecting the demand for loans and other products and services we offer. Consumers affected by COVID-19 may continue to demonstrate changed behavior even after the crisis is over. For example, consumers may decrease discretionary spending on a permanent or long-term basis, certain industries may take longer to recover (particularly those that rely on travel or large gatherings) as consumers may be hesitant to return to full social interaction, We lend to customers operating in such industries including restaurants, hotels/lodging, entertainment, retail and commercial real estate, among others, that have been significantly impacted by COVID-19 and we are continuing to monitor these customers closely. The potential changes in behaviors driven by COVID-19 also present heightened liquidity risks, for example, arising from increased demand for our products and services (such as unusually high draws on credit facilities) or decreased demand for our products and services (such as idiosyncratic, or broad-based, market or other developments that lead to deposit outflows). 

Like our borrowers, BHG&#8217;s borrowers have been similarly affected by COVID-19. Many of BHG&#8217;s borrowers are medical or dental practices that have been particularly impacted by safer-at-home orders that have effectively caused those practices&#8217; revenues to decline materially as a result of elective procedures being prohibited, cancelled or delayed or individuals&#8217; decisions to postpone non-emergency procedures. For those loans that BHG has sold through its auction platform, BHG may at its sole discretion, in response to a request from a purchaser of a loan, agree to substitute a performing loan for one that has become past due. If requests for substitutions increase, and BHG opts to provide the substitution. BHG&#8217;s credit losses may likewise increase and its results of operations would be adversely impacted. 

Under the CARES Act, Congress created the PPP and authorized the Treasury to implement rules regarding the program. Banks, like us, and non-bank lenders, including BHG, facilitated funding under the program on behalf of the SBA for borrowers that were eligible participants. Since the roll out of the PPP, Treasury has issued rules and other interpretive guidance seeking to address uncertainty surrounding the program and its eligibility and other criteria. This constantly changing guidance caused challenges for us and other lenders under the program, like BHG, in finalizing and submitting applications and, in some cases, borrowers&#8217; requests were not met before the initial funding under the program was exhausted. Though Congress has approved additional funding under the program it is possible that not all borrowers that desire loans under the program will have their requests met. As a result, we, and other lenders under the PPP, may face criticism from customers or others that sought to apply for the program and were unable to receive funding. This criticism could cause reputational damage to us and there is a possibility that customers or others may threaten and pursue legal action against banks and other lenders like us and BHG under the program. Moreover, as a result of updated guidance regarding the PPP and its eligibility standards, some borrowers that received loans through our processing efforts, have repaid their loans in full and others may choose to do the same. If that happens, we may not receive the fees that we were entitled to as a result of originating these loans. 

COVID-19&#8217;s economic disruption has also impacted many states and municipalities. As a result, many states and municipalities are facing a strain on resources and a reduction in tax collections and some of these have sought assistance from the Federal government to cover the cost of resource depletion and tax shortfalls. The ability of states and municipalities to fund shortfalls could have an adverse effect on their ability to sustain debt maintenance obligations which would negatively impact the value of our municipal bond portfolio. 

Banks and bank holding companies have been particularly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. This disruption has impacted our cost of capital and may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets if we need or desire to do so and, although the ultimate impact cannot be reliably estimated at this time in light of the uncertainties and ongoing developments noted herein, such impacts could be material. Furthermore, bank regulatory agencies have been (and are expected to continue to be) very proactive in responding to both market and supervisory concerns arising from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the potential impact on customers, especially borrowers. As shown during and following the financial crisis, periods of economic and financial disruption and stress have, in the past, resulted in increased scrutiny of banking organizations. We are closely monitoring the potential for new laws and regulations impacting lending and funding practices as well as capital and liquidity standards. Such changes could require us to maintain significantly more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the composition of our assets and liabilities to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements. Furthermore, provisions of the CARES Act allow, but do not require, the FDIC to guarantee deposit obligations of banks in non-interest-bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2020. Participation in any such guarantee program may result in fees and other assessments as the FDIC determines and may include special assessments. Other provisions of the CARES Act as well as actions taken by bank regulators, such as potential relief for working with borrowers who are distressed as a result of the effects of COVID-19, could similarly impact aggregate deposit insurance expense. 

As we sought to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers during the first quarter of 2020, we took numerous actions to modify our business operations, including restricting employee travel, directing a significant percentage of our employees that were able to do so to work from home, closing the lobbies of many of our branches, and in some cases the branch itself, and implementing our business continuity plans and protocols. We may take further actions in the future either of our own volition or as a result of government orders or directives. Though we believe we have been able to adequately service our clients under these restrictions, we cannot provide any assurances that our ability to do so wouldn&#8217;t be negatively impacted if additional restrictions are necessary or imposed on us in the future, including if key employees of ours or a significant number of our associates become ill as a result of contracting the virus. Given our preference for hiring experienced lenders the average age of an associate of ours may be higher than many of our peers and those of our associates who are of an age that puts them in a higher risk category may be more susceptible to contracting the virus. We rely on the services of various key vendors and business partners to service our clients and if those companies&#8217; businesses or workforces are impacted in ways similar to those that may impact our business, our ability to service our customers could be impacted. 

The economic uncertainty caused by COVID-19&#8217;s spread and the efforts of government and non-governmental authorities and the behavior of individuals seeking to slow its spread, have caused our provision expense for credit losses to increase materially in the 

first quarter of 2020 and may contribute to further increases through the duration of the pandemic and any recovery period following its end. Increased provision levels would negatively impact our capital levels which may impact our ability to pay dividends or cause us to need to access the capital markets to support our capital needs. We have also taken efforts to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and those efforts may cause our net interest margin to be adversely impacted. 

COVID-19 has not yet been contained, and given the ongoing and fluid nature of the country&#8217;s response to the pandemic, it is difficult for us to accurately estimate the length and severity of the economic disruption being caused by COVID-19. As a result, the extent to which our results of operations, provision expense, capital levels, liquidity ratios and published credit ratings will be impacted is difficult to predict. 

