Here is the cleaned text file with only content related to State Street Corporation, while preserving the original formatting and table of contents:

```
state_street_corporation_2022_Q4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: State Street Names Compliance Chief .......................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BusinessNews:StateStreetNamesComplianceChief                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business News: State Street Names Compliance Chief                      
          By Mengqi Sun                                                           
          219 words                                                               
          11 October 2022                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B5                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          State Street Corp. said it appointed Yvette Hollingsworth Clark as its new global chief compliance officer.
          Ms. Hollingsworth Clark comes to the financial services company from technology giant Alphabet Inc., where
          she most recently served as the head of compliance for Google's consumer trust business.
          Before Google, Ms. Hollingsworth Clark worked in compliance and financial crime roles in the financial
          services industry, including at Barclays PLC and Citigroup Inc.         
          She has also served as a bank regulator and supervisor with the Federal Reserve System.
                                                                                  
          At State Street, Ms. Hollingsworth Clark will report to Brad Hu, global head of risk, and will be accountable to
          the board's examining and audit committee. She will oversee compliance activities globally, State Street said
          Monday in a statement.                                                  
          Ms. Hollingsworth Clark succeeds Jacqueline Angell, who left her position earlier this year to pursue other
          opportunities, a State Street spokesman said.                           
          State Street said Ms. Hollingsworth Clark's background in risk compliance management and in setting up
          effective anti-money-laundering and compliance frameworks at global financial institutions will help it further
          strengthen its compliance functions.                                    
                                                                                  
          Boston-based State Street provides custody and investment services for institutional investors and had $38.2
          trillion in assets under custody or administration as of June 30.       
          Document J000000020221011eiab00018                                      
                                                                                  
``` 

I've maintained all the original spacing and formatting while removing any content that wasn't specifically about State Street Corporation. The table of contents entry was preserved as it relates to the main article about State Street.