 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Developments relating to individual aspects of the business of BOK Financial Corporation ("BOK Financial" or "the Company") are described below. Additional discussion of the Company&#8217;s activities during the current year appears within Item 7 "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Description of Business 

BOK Financial is a financial holding company incorporated in the state of Oklahoma in 1990 whose activities are governed by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("BHCA"), as amended by the Financial Services Modernization Act or Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). BOK Financial offers full service banking in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Northwest Arkansas, Colorado, Arizona, and Kansas/Missouri. At December 31, 2020, the Company reported total consolidated assets of $47 billion. 

BOKF, NA is a wholly owned subsidiary bank of BOK Financial. BOKF, NA operates TransFund, Cavanal Hill Investment Management and BOK Financial Asset Management, Inc. BOKF, NA operates banking divisions across eight states: Bank of Albuquerque, Bank of Oklahoma, Bank of Texas and BOK Financial in Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas and Missouri; as well as having limited purpose offices in Nebraska, Wisconsin and Connecticut. Other wholly owned subsidiaries of BOK Financial include BOK Financial Securities, Inc., a broker/dealer that primarily engages in retail and institutional securities sales and municipal bond underwriting; BOK Financial Private Wealth, Inc., an investment adviser to high net worth clients; and BOK Financial Insurance, Inc., a broker providing insurance services. Other non-bank subsidiary operations do not have a significant effect on the Company&#8217;s financial statements. 

Our overall strategic objective is to emphasize growth in long-term value by building on our leadership position in Oklahoma through expansion into other high-growth markets in contiguous states. We operate primarily in the metropolitan areas of Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Dallas, Fort Worth and Houston, Texas; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Denver, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona, and Kansas City, Kansas/Missouri. Our acquisition strategy targets fairly priced quality organizations with demonstrated solid growth that would supplement our principal lines of business. We provide additional growth opportunities by hiring talent to enhance competitiveness, adding locations and broadening product offerings. Our operating philosophy embraces local decision-making in each of our geographic markets while adhering to common Company standards. 

Our primary focus is to provide a comprehensive range of nationally competitive financial products and services in a personalized and responsive manner. Products and services include loans and deposits, cash management services, fiduciary and insurance services, mortgage banking and brokerage and trading services to middle-market businesses, financial institutions and consumers. Commercial banking represents a significant part of our business. Our credit culture emphasizes building relationships by making high quality loans and providing a full range of financial products and services to our customers. We offer derivative products that enable mortgage banking customers to manage their production risks and our energy financing expertise enables us to offer commodity derivatives for customers to use in their risk management. Our diversified base of revenue sources is designed to generate returns in a range of economic situations. Historically, fees and commissions provide 39% to 48% of our total revenue. Approximately 42% of our revenue came from fees and commissions in 2020. 

BOK Financial&#8217;s corporate headquarters is located at Bank of Oklahoma Tower, Boston Avenue at Second Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. 

The Company&#8217;s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on the Company&#8217;s website at www.bokf.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with or furnishes it to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Operating Segments 

BOK Financial operates three principal lines of business: Commercial Banking, Consumer Banking and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking includes lending, treasury and cash management services and customer commodity risk management products for small businesses, middle market and larger commercial customers. Commercial Banking also includes the TransFund electronic funds network. Consumer Banking includes retail lending and deposit services, lending and deposit services to small business customers served through the retail branch network and all mortgage loan origination and servicing activities. Wealth Management engages in brokerage and trading activities, mainly related to providing liquidity to the mortgage markets through trading of U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities and related derivative contracts. Wealth Management also provides fiduciary services, private bank services, investment advisory services and insurance services in all markets. Additionally, Wealth Management underwrites state and municipal securities. Discussion of these principal lines of business appears within the Lines of Business section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 

Competition 

BOK Financial and its operating segments face competition from other banks, thrifts, credit unions and other non-bank financial institutions, such as investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, financial technology firms, government agencies, mortgage brokers and insurance companies. The Company competes largely on the basis of customer services, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Some operating segments face competition from institutions that are not as closely regulated as banks, and therefore are not limited by the same capital requirements and other restrictions. All market share information presented below is based upon share of deposits in specified areas according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") as of June 30, 2020. 

We are the largest financial institution in the state of Oklahoma with 16% of the state&#8217;s total deposits. We have 38% and 10% of the market share in the Tulsa and Oklahoma City areas, respectively. &#160; We compete with two banks that have operations nationwide and have greater access to funds at lower costs, higher lending limits, and greater access to technology resources. We also compete with regional and locally-owned banks in both the Tulsa and Oklahoma City areas, as well as in every other community in which we do business throughout the state. 

We compete against numerous financial institutions in the state of Texas, including some of the largest in the United States, &#160; and have a market share of approximately 1% in the Dallas, Fort Worth area and less than 1% in the Houston area. We have an 11% market share in the Albuquerque area and compete with four large national banks, some regional banks and several locally-owned smaller community banks. Our market share is approximately 4% in the Denver area. We serve Benton and Washington counties in Arkansas with a market share of approximately 2%. Our market share is approximately 1% in the Kansas City, Missouri/Kansas area. We operate as a community bank with locations in Phoenix, Mesa and Scottsdale with approximately 1% market share. The Company&#8217;s ability to expand into additional states remains subject to various federal and state laws. 

Human Capital Management and Practices 

In order to continue leading the financial industry as a provider of sophisticated solutions to businesses, institutions and individuals across the country, it is crucial that we attract, develop and retain top talent. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to make BOK Financial an inclusive workplace with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers. We support our employees with strong compensation, benefits, and wellness programs. We also work to build connections between our employees and our communities. &#8220;Actively advancing the communities we serve&#8221; is one of our core values. Those familiar with BOK Financial will recognize the generosity of our employees in our communities as one of the hallmarks of our culture, and a source of pride as we live out our purpose statement of &#8220;Achieving More Together&#8221;. 

As of December 31, 2020, BOK Financial and its subsidiaries employed approximately 4,915 full-time and part-time employees, the majority of which are full-time employees. None of the Company&#8217;s employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its employee relations to be good. Our employees are distributed over our eight state footprint, to include: Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona. As of year-end 2020, our voluntary turnover rate was 10.5%, well below the financial services industry benchmark of 14%+ for voluntary turnover. 

Response to COVID-19 

Related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented protocols that we determined were in the best interest of our employees to ensure operational continuity and employee safety. We moved a majority of our employees to a work-from-home status and implemented additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site operations. In addition, we implemented enhanced compensation and benefits offerings for employees and their families throughout the year. 

Diversity and Inclusion Efforts 

We believe that our organization should reflect the diversity of the communities we serve. We also recognize that in order for a diverse workforce to thrive, we must prioritize inclusion efforts. The following categories represent areas of focus for Diversity &#38; Inclusion: community engagement, senior leader engagement, Communities of Practice, diverse recruiting practices and education. 

Community Engagement 

In 2020, the company and our BOKF Foundation gave a combined $6.2 million to organizations making a difference in our communities. Our employees donated more than 12,000 volunteer hours and more than 250 employees served on 320 nonprofit boards. Over the past ten years, we have committed nearly $565 million in loan funding to support affordable housing projects and nearly $305 million in affordable housing investments. 

Senior Leader Engagement 

Our Diversity &#38; Inclusion Council is led by our CEO and President, Steve Bradshaw, and includes other members of the executive leadership team, as well as senior leaders throughout our footprint. As an organization, we joined the &#8216;CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion&#8217; Pledge. The pledge outlines our commitment to cultivating a trusting environment where all ideas are welcomed, and employees feel comfortable and empowered to have discussions about diversity and inclusion. 

Mentorship Program 

Our mentorship program launched in the fourth quarter of 2020. We believe that mentorship programs are a valuable tool for helping employees successfully shape their long-term career trajectory. Mentor matches are prioritized for availability for females and people of color. 

Communities of Practice 

Earlier this year, we introduced a concept called &#8216;Communities of Practice&#8217; ("CoP") as a way for our organization to build inclusive groups to harness the collective power of diverse skills, styles, strengths and experiences &#8211; and leverage those strengths into advancing our business. Six groups connecting employees from different disciplines, markets and lines of business were launched in 2020. More CoPs are set to launch in 2021, to include: Advancing Minority Owned Businesses, Practicing Inclusion, and Diverse Recruiting Practices. Any person from across the organization can join any Community of Practice; these groups highlight our enterprise focus on inclusivity. 

Diverse Recruiting Practices 

All members of the recruiting team have completed the Alliance of Information &#38; Referral Systems ("AIRS") Certified Diversity Recruiter certification as well as a custom-developed training program for BOKF talent and attraction specialists. University recruiting has been a focal point for our diversity efforts. Our 2020 class of interns and early career associates saw significant increases both in number of females and people of color. 

Diversity Education 

Unconscious bias education was introduced for all managers in order to provide tools to adjust automatic patterns of thinking related to hiring practices. At the beginning of 2020, we also introduced a partnership with a well-known learning vendor to ensure all employees across the company had equal access to development opportunities in a virtual setting. The concept of &#8216;inclusion&#8217; is woven into many of the learning opportunities offered by our Talent and Organizational Development team; examples would include: &#8216;Communicating Across Generations&#8217; and &#8216;Crucial Conversations&#8217;. 

Benefits and Compensation Offerings 

BOKF is committed to the health and wellness of our employees. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of flexible and convenient health and wellness programs. We encourage engagement in healthy behaviors and offer options, where possible, to customize benefits to meet the needs of employees and their families. We provide robust compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. In addition to base salaries, these programs may include incentive compensation, discretionary bonuses, equity, 401(k), health and wellness benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, flexible work schedules, employee assistance programs, and tuition reimbursement. 

Talent Development 

Our talent development programs provide employees with the resources they need to achieve their career goals, build management skills and lead within BOKF. We provide &#8216;boot camps&#8217; that support professional development. We have programs that prepare high-potential talent for the leadership roles of tomorrow. 

Connecting with Our Communities 

Since our employees are passionate about many causes, our corporate giving and volunteering programs support and encourage employees by engaging with those causes. Our employee-led giving program allows employees to nominate and vote for nonprofit organizations across our footprint to receive financial benefit from our Foundation. This year, over 2,100 employees nominated and voted on 212 nonprofit organizations to receive funding. 

Supervision and Regulation 

BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations under federal and state laws. Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which our business is subject have increased in recent years. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. These regulations and others are designed to promote safety and soundness, protect consumers and ensure the stability of the banking system as a whole. The purpose of these regulations is not necessarily to protect shareholders and creditors. As detailed below, these regulations require the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain certain capital balances and require the Company to provide financial support to its subsidiaries. These regulations may restrict the Company&#8217;s ability to diversify, to acquire other institutions and to pay dividends on its capital stock. These regulations also include requirements on certain programs and services offered to our customers, including restrictions on fees charged for certain services. The Company expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. 

The following information summarizes certain existing laws and regulations that affect the Company&#8217;s operations. It does not summarize all provisions of these laws and regulations and does not include all laws and regulations that affect the Company presently or in the future. 

General 

As a financial holding company, BOK Financial is regulated under the BHCA and is subject to regular inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). Under the BHCA, BOK Financial files quarterly reports and other information with the Federal Reserve Board. 

BOKF, NA is organized as a national banking association under the National Banking Act, and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"), the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") and other federal and state regulatory agencies. The OCC &#160; has primary supervisory responsibility for national banks and must approve certain corporate or structural changes, including changes in capitalization, payment of dividends, change of place of business, and establishment of a branch or operating subsidiary. The OCC performs examinations concerning safety and soundness, the quality of management and directors, information technology and compliance with applicable regulations. The National Banking Act authorizes the OCC to examine every national bank as often as necessary. 

A financial holding company, and the companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered "financial in nature" as defined by the BHCA, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board interpretations. Activities that are "financial in nature" include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting, merchant banking, operating a mortgage company, performing certain data processing operations, servicing loans and other extensions of credit, providing investment and financial advice, owning and operating savings and loan associations, and leasing personal property on a full pay-out, non-operating basis. A financial holding company is required to notify the Federal Reserve Board within thirty days of engaging in new activities determined to be "financial in nature." BOK Financial is engaged in some of these activities and has notified the Federal Reserve Board. 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must be "well capitalized" and "well managed" and have received a rating of at least "satisfactory" in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act. A financial holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries are considered to be "well capitalized" if they meet the requirements discussed in the section captioned "Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action" which follows. A financial holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries are considered to be "well managed" if they receive a composite rating and management rating of at least "satisfactory" in their most recent examinations. If a financial holding company fails to meet these requirements, the Federal Reserve Board may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities and the company may not commence any new financial activities without prior approval. 

The BHCA requires the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s prior approval for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than five percent of any class of voting stock of any non-affiliated bank. Under the Federal Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant&#8217;s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act and fair housing laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. 

A financial holding company and its subsidiaries are prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with the provision of any credit, property or services. Thus, a subsidiary of a financial holding company may not extend credit, lease or sell property, furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these activities on the condition that (1) the customer obtain or provide additional credit, property or services from or to the financial holding company or any subsidiary thereof, or (2) the customer may not obtain some other credit, property or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to insure the soundness of credit extended. 

The Company and other non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations. For example, BOK Financial Securities, Inc. is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), the Federal Reserve Board, and state securities regulators. Such regulations generally include licensing of certain personnel, customer interactions, and trading operations. 

Volcker and Swap Rules 

Title VI of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, prohibits the Company from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for our own account, and (2) having certain ownership interests in or relationships with private equity or hedge funds. The fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including the Company and its bank subsidiary. Trading activity remains largely unaffected by the Volcker Rule as most of our trading activity is exempted or excluded from the proprietary trading prohibitions. 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Swap Rule, subjects nearly all derivative transactions to the regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") or SEC. This includes registration, recordkeeping, reporting, capital, margin and business conduct requirements on swap dealers and major swap participants. Under CFTC and SEC rules, entities transacting in less than $8 billion in notional value of swaps over any 12 month period are exempt from the definition of and registration as a "swap dealer." The Company currently estimates that the nature and volume of its swaps activity will not require it to register as a swap dealer. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Federal Reserve Board to monitor emerging risks to financial institutions and enacted enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank covered companies designated as systematically important to the Financial Stability Oversight Council (often referred to as systemically important financial institutions). The Dodd-Frank Act mandated that certain regulatory requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial institutions. 

In February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted rules to implement certain of these enhanced prudential standards. Beginning in 2015, the rules required publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets to establish risk committees and required bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced capital, liquidity and overall risk management standards. In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act ("Regulatory Relief Act") raised the threshold for systemically important financial institutions from $50 billion to $250 billion while providing the Federal Reserve with authority to establish incremental prudential standards for banks between $100 billion and $250 billion. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws that extensively govern our relationship with our customers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act and these laws&#8217; respective state-law counterparts, as well as state usury laws and laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices. These and other federal laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit and terms of deposit accounts, provide substantive consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive practices, restrict our ability to raise interest rates and subject us to substantial regulatory oversight. Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant potential liability from litigation brought by customers, including actual damages, restitution and attorneys&#8217; fees. Federal bank regulators, state attorneys general and state and local consumer protection agencies may also seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and obtain these and other remedies, including regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by the state and local attorneys general in each jurisdiction in which we operate and civil money penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also damage our reputation and result in our failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for merger or acquisition transactions we may wish to pursue or our prohibition from engaging in such transactions even if approval is not required. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks, including, among other things, the authority to prohibit &#8220;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#8221; acts and practices. Abusive acts or practices are defined as those that materially interfere with a consumer&#8217;s ability to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service or take unreasonable advantage of a consumer&#8217;s (i) lack of financial savvy, (ii) inability to protect himself in the selection or use of consumer financial products or services, or (iii) reasonable reliance on a covered entity to act in the consumer&#8217;s interests. The CFPB can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB may also institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial law in order to impose a civil penalty or injunction. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA") requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practice. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low- and moderate-income individuals and communities. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the CRA and are assigned ratings. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA, or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA. Furthermore, banking regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering a request for an approval of a proposed transaction. BOKF, NA received a rating of "outstanding" in its most recent CRA examination, which is above "satisfactory." 

Financial Privacy 

The federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and is conveyed to outside parties. 

Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to United States banking organizations to ensure capital adequacy based upon the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. In addition, these regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. Capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weighting and other factors. 

Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelines define four capital metrics based on three categories of regulatory capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital ("CET1") includes common shareholders' equity, less goodwill, most intangible assets and other adjustments. Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 capital plus certain additional capital instruments and related surplus. Supplementary capital ("Tier 2") consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, qualifying mandatory convertible debt securities, limited amounts of subordinated debt, other qualifying term debt and allowances for credit losses, subject to limitations. Assets and off-balance sheet exposures are assigned to categories of risk-weights, based primarily upon relative credit risk. Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing CET1, Tier 1 and total capital by risk-weighted assets. In addition to the risk-based capital ratios, the Company is also subject to the leverage ratio. The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average total assets. 

Additional capital rules were effective for banks and bank holding companies, including BOK Financial, on January 1, 2015 as part of a package of regulatory reforms developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("BCBS") to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector, commonly referred to as the Basel III framework. Several components, which had previously been deferred, were finalized in 2019. These have been implemented with no material capital impact. 

Failure to meet minimum capital requirements would be subject to regulatory restrictions on capital distributions (including but not limited to dividends and share repurchases) and executive bonus payments. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the "FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions from well capitalized to critically under-capitalized and requires the respective federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for prompt corrective action for institutions failing to meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive covenants on operations, management and capital distributions, depending upon the category in which an institution is classified. The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, using the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various degrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered under-capitalized. 

Stress Testing 

The Regulatory Relief Act eliminated the requirement for periodic company run capital stress tests known as the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test for banks with assets less than $250 billion. Although the mandate has been lifted, the Company still continues to perform capital stress testing on a regular basis. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

Guidelines adopted by federal banking agencies prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. The Federal Reserve Board has issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies do not undermine safety and soundness by encouraging excessive risk taking. This guidance covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, based on key principles that (i) incentives do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization's ability to identify and manage risk, (ii) compensation arrangements are compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) compensation arrangements are supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective board oversight. Deficiencies in compensation practices may affect supervisory ratings and enforcement actions may be taken if incentive compensation arrangements pose a risk to safety and soundness. 

Deposit Insurance 

&#160; 

Substantially all of the deposits held by the subsidiary banks are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. In 2011, the FDIC released a final rule to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR) from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits, removed the upper limit of the designated reserve ratio, required that the designated reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and required that the FDIC offset the effect of increasing the minimum designated reserve ratio on depository institutions with total assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act provided the FDIC flexibility in implementation of the increase in the designated reserve ratio, but it ultimately resulted in increased deposit insurance costs to the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act also required that the FDIC redefine the assessment base to average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. 

On September 30, 2018 the DRR rose above 1.35%. Accordingly, the surcharge for depository institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion ceased. On September 15, 2020, the FDIC Board of Directors waived the provision of the FDIC's assessment regulations requiring that the reserve ratio must be at least 1.35% for the FDIC to remit the full nominal value of an insured depository institution's remaining assessment credits. All remaining small bank credits were refunded on the September 30, 2020 assessment invoice, ending the application of small bank credits. 

Dividends 

A key source of liquidity for BOK Financial is dividends from BOKF, NA, which is limited by various banking regulations to net profits, as defined, for the year plus retained profits for the preceding two years. Dividends are further restricted by minimum capital requirements and the Company's internal capital policy. BOKF, NA's dividend limitations are discussed under the heading "Liquidity and Capital" within "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

According to Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

The Federal Reserve Board regulates transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries. Generally, the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, limit the Company&#8217;s banking subsidiary and its subsidiaries, to lending and other "covered transactions" with affiliates. The aggregate amount of covered transactions a banking subsidiary or its subsidiaries may enter into with an affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. 

Covered transactions with affiliates are also subject to collateral requirements and must be conducted on arm&#8217;s length terms. Covered transactions include (a) a loan or extension of credit by the banking subsidiary, including derivative contracts, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking subsidiary, (c) a purchase of assets by the banking subsidiary unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve, (d) acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. 

Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act 

The Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA") and The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 ("PATRIOT Act") impose many requirements on financial institutions in the interest of national security and law enforcement. BSA requires banks to maintain records and file suspicious activity reports that are of use to law enforcement and regulators in combating money laundering and other financial crimes. The PATRIOT Act is intended to deny terrorists and criminals the ability to access the U.S. financial services system and places significantly greater requirements on financial institutions. Financial institutions, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, must have a designated BSA Officer, internal controls, independent testing and training programs commensurate with their size and risk profile. As part of its internal control program, a financial institution is expected to have effective customer due diligence and enhanced due diligence requirements for high-risk customers, as well as processes to prohibit transactions with entities subject to Office of Foreign Asset Control sanctions. Documentation and recordkeeping requirements, as well as system requirements, aimed at identifying and reporting suspicious activity reporting, must increase with the institution's size and complexity. Failure to implement or maintain adequate programs and controls to combat terrorist financing and money laundering may have serious legal, financial, and reputational consequences. 

Governmental Policies and Economic Factors 

The operations of BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are affected by legislative changes and by the policies of various regulatory authorities and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has statutory objectives to maximize employment and maintain price stability. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are: open-market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate and federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits. The effect of future changes in such policies on the business and earnings of BOK Financial and its subsidiaries is uncertain. 

The spread of COVID-19 and related economic shutdowns that occurred during 2020 resulted in significant economic instability. In response, Congress and the Federal Reserve took aggressive actions. Congress passed an emergency $2.2 trillion relief package, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act"), designed to alleviate some of the worst effects of the swift economic downturn. The Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate by 150 basis points to near zero and has initiated additional programs to infuse liquidity and stimulate economic activity. The Federal Reserve increased its purchasing position, purchasing about $120 billion in securities a month in the final half of 2020. The Federal Open Market Committee is committed to keeping the federal funds rate at the current level until the labor market has recovered consistent with their assessment of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent, and is on track to exceed that for some time. In December, 2020, Congress passed an additional $900 billion in stimulus to the U.S. economy. The newest package included the extension of federal pandemic unemployment compensation, funds for healthcare and vaccination distributions, an extended stay on evictions, stimulus check for qualifying Americans, employee tax credits, additional Paycheck Protection Program relief, among other provisions. 

The drastic decline in economic conditions in March and April was partially offset by a steep incline in May and June and moderated in the subsequent months. Real GDP grew 33% in the third quarter and demand for durable goods increased to pre-pandemic levels. The housing market completely bounced back due to continued low mortgage interest rates. See "Summary of Credit Loss Experience" section on Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion around our economic forecast. 

Foreign Operations 

BOK Financial does not engage in operations in foreign countries, nor does it lend to foreign governments. 

