 

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

Business 

Overview 

We are a global financial services firm that, through our subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages and distributes capital for, governments, institutions and individuals. We were originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and our predecessor companies date back to 1924. We are an FHC regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHC Act&#8221;). We conduct our business from our headquarters in and around New York City, our regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and our principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms &#8220;Morgan Stanley,&#8221; the &#8220;Firm,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; mean Morgan Stanley (the &#8220;Parent Company&#8221;) together with its consolidated subsidiaries. See the &#8220;Glossary of Common Terms and Acronyms&#8221; for the definition of certain terms and acronyms used throughout the 2020 Form 10-K. 

Financial information concerning us, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 is included in &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

On October 2, 2020, we completed the acquisition of E*TRADE Financial Corporation (&#8220;E*TRADE&#8221;). For further information, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Business Segments&#8212;Wealth Management&#8221; and Note 3 to the financial statements. 

Business Segments 

We are a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of our business segments: Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we provide a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Additional information related to our business segments, respective clients, and products and services provided is included under &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Competition 

All aspects of our businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for us to remain competitive. Our competitive position depends on a number 

of factors, including our reputation, the quality and consistency of our long-term investment performance, innovation, execution, relative pricing or other factors including entering into new, or expanding current, businesses as a result of acquisitions and other strategic initiatives. Our ability to sustain or improve our competitive position also depends substantially on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, exchanges, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, energy companies, financial technology firms and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and digitally, including through the internet. In addition, restrictive laws and regulations applicable to certain financial services institutions, which may prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, can put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in certain businesses not subject to these same requirements. See also &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; herein and &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

We compete directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there is increased competition driven by established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models (including innovative uses of technology) competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services to retail and institutional customers. We also compete with companies that provide online trading and banking services, investment advisor services, robo-advice capabilities, and other financial products and services. 

Our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by our credit ratings), to commit and to deploy capital efficiently, particularly in our capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects our competitive position. We expect corporate clients to continue to request that we provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities. 

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as we continue to compete with financial or other institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain geographies or products. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services, and on different platforms, that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on our businesses. 

We continue to experience intense price competition in some of our businesses. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and fees. The trend toward direct access 

##TABLE_START 1 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. It is also possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing or eliminating bid-offer spreads, commissions, markups or fees. 

Our ability to compete successfully in the investment management industry is affected by several factors, including our reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. Our investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers with passive investment products or who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us. 

Supervision and Regulation 

As a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. These include legislative and regulatory responses to the 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath, both in the U.S. and worldwide, including: the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;); risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted or being developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (&#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;), including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; and recovery and resolution regimes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. In some areas, regulatory standards are still subject to further rulemaking or transition periods or may otherwise be revised in whole or in part. 

We continue to monitor the changing political, tax and regulatory environment; it is likely that there will be further changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which we operate, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. We expect to remain subject to extensive supervision and regulation. 

Financial Holding Company 

Consolidated Supervision. We have operated as a BHC and FHC under the BHC Act since September 2008. As a BHC, we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of our subsidiaries. In particular, we are subject to (among other 

things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses; limitations on activities; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221;; and comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us and our subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable. 

Scope of Permitted Activities. The BHC Act limits the activities of BHCs and FHCs and grants the Federal Reserve authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. We must obtain the Federal Reserve&#8217;s approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally. 

The BHC Act grandfathers &#8220;activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,&#8221; provided that we were engaged in &#8220;any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the U.S.&#8221; and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. We currently engage in our commodities activities pursuant to the BHC Act grandfather exemption as well as other authorities under the BHC Act. 

Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with covered funds, as defined in the Volcker Rule, with a number of exemptions and exclusions. The Volcker Rule also requires that deductions be made from a BHC&#8217;s Tier 1 capital for permissible investments in certain covered funds. In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule. We have brought all of our activities and investments into conformance, subject to a June 2017 approval by the Federal Reserve for a five-year extension of the transition period to conform investments in certain legacy covered funds that are also illiquid funds. The approval covers essentially all of our non-conforming investments in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds subject to the Volcker Rule. 

Since the initial adoption of the Volcker Rule&#8217;s implementing regulations, revisions to both the proprietary trading and covered fund provisions have been made, which have generally simplified the application of the Volcker Rule. The covered funds final rule became effective on October 1, 2020, and full compliance with the changes to the proprietary trading final rule was required by January 1, 2021. We do not 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 2 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

expect either the proprietary trading or covered funds revisions to have a material impact on the way we conduct business under the current rule. 

Capital Standards. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for large BHCs and evaluates our compliance with such requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements and standards for Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (&#8220;MSBNA&#8221;), Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (&#8220;MSPBNA&#8221;), E*TRADE Bank (&#8220;ETB&#8221;) and E*TRADE Savings Bank (&#8220;ETSB&#8221;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of ETB, (collectively, our &#8220;U.S. Bank Subsidiaries&#8221;). 

Regulatory Capital Framework: The regulatory capital requirements for us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee, as supplemented by certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We are subject to various risk-based capital requirements with various transition provisions, measured against our Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital bases, leverage-based capital requirements, including the SLR, and additional capital buffers above generally applicable minimum standards for BHCs. 

The Basel Committee has published a comprehensive set of revisions to its Basel III Framework. The revised requirements are expected to take effect starting January 2023, subject to U.S. banking agencies issuing implementation proposals. The impact on us of any revisions to the Basel Committee&#8217;s capital standards is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the U.S. banking agencies. 

Regulated Subsidiaries: In addition, many of our regulated subsidiaries are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to regulatory capital requirements, including regulated subsidiaries registered as swap dealers with the CFTC or security-based swap dealers with the SEC (collectively, &#8220;Swaps Entities&#8221;) or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants. Specific regulatory capital requirements vary by regulated subsidiary, and in many cases these standards are still in proposed form, not yet effective or are subject to ongoing rulemakings that could substantially modify requirements. 

For more information about the specific capital requirements applicable to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements.&#8221; 

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Capital Distributions: Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley. For more information about the capital planning and stress test requirements, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements.&#8221; 

In addition to capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator&#8217;s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. For information about the Federal Reserve&#8217;s restrictions on capital distributions for large BHCs, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Capital Action Supervisory Restrictions.&#8221; All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under circumstances which we would not otherwise decide to do so. 

Liquidity Standards. In addition to capital regulations, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have adopted liquidity and funding standards. We, MSBNA and MSPBNA are, and following a transition period ETB will be, subject to the U.S. banking agencies&#8217; LCR requirements, which generally follow Basel Committee standards. Similarly, when the final NSFR requirements issued by the U.S. banking agencies become effective July 1, 2021, we, MSBNA, MSPBNA and ETB will become subject to NSFR requirements, which generally follow Basel Committee standards. 

In addition to the LCR and NSFR, we and many of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to other liquidity standards, including liquidity stress testing and associated liquidity reserve requirements. 

For more information, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Liquidity Framework.&#8221; 

Systemic Risk Regime. The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;), establishes a systemic risk regime to which certain large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley, are subject. Under rules issued by the Federal Reserve to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards, such large BHCs must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. These large BHCs also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements. 

##TABLE_START 3 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

The Federal Reserve also imposes single-counterparty credit limits (&#8220;SCCL&#8221;) for large banking organizations. U.S. G-SIBs, including us, are subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any &#8220;major counterparty&#8221; (defined to include other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs, and nonbank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve). In addition, we are subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. 

The Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements.&#8221; 

If the Federal Reserve or the Financial Stability Oversight Council determines that a BHC with $250 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a &#8220;grave threat&#8221; to U.S. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and/or required to terminate activities and dispose of assets. 

See also &#8220;Capital Standards&#8221; and &#8220;Liquidity Standards&#8221; herein and &#8220;Resolution and Recovery Planning&#8221; below. 

Resolution and Recovery Planning. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of our material financial distress or failure. Our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2019 resolution plan, is an SPOE strategy, which generally contemplates the provision of adequate capital and liquidity by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy after the Parent Company has filed for bankruptcy. 

Under a final rule issued by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, we are now required to file resolution plans once every two years, with interim updates required in certain limited circumstances, including material mergers or acquisitions or fundamental changes to our resolution strategy. The rule also allows us to alternate between submitting a full, detailed resolution plan and a streamlined, targeted resolution plan. The rule also clarifies the information required to be included in our resolution plan. Our next resolution plan, due July 1, 2021, will be a targeted resolution plan and will reflect our acquisition of E*TRADE. 

Further, we submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take 

over time to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress. 

Certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example the FDIC requires certain insured depository institutions (&#8220;IDI&#8221;), including MSBNA and MSPBNA, to submit an annual resolution plan that describes the IDI&#8217;s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the IDI. 

In addition, certain financial companies, including BHCs such as the Firm and certain of its subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the U.S. President. Regulators have adopted certain orderly liquidation authority implementing regulations and may expand or clarify these regulations in the future. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove directors and officers responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign our assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among our creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing an SPOE strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority. 

Regulators have also taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. For example, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have established rules that impose contractual requirements on certain qualified financial contracts (&#8220;covered QFCs&#8221;) to which U.S. G-SIBs, including us, and their subsidiaries including our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, are parties (together, the &#8220;covered entities&#8221;). Under these rules, covered QFCs must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against covered entities are limited to the same extent as they would be under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations, and they may not, among other things, permit the exercise of any cross-default right against covered entities based on an affiliate&#8217;s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings, subject to certain creditor protections. 

For more information about our resolution plan-related submissions and associated regulatory actions, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk," 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 4 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

&#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements&#8221; and &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Resolution and Recovery Planning.&#8221; 

Cyber and Information Security Risk Management and Protection of Client Information 

The financial services industry faces increased global regulatory focus regarding cyber and information security risk management practices. Many aspects of our businesses are subject to cybersecurity legal and regulatory requirements enacted by U.S. federal and state governments and other non-U.S. jurisdictions in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. These laws are generally aimed at codifying basic cybersecurity protections and mandating data breach notification requirements. 

Our businesses are also subject to increasing privacy and data protection information security legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain personal information. These include the General Data Protection Regulation (&#8220;GDPR&#8221;), the California Consumer Privacy Act (&#8220;CCPA&#8221;) and a broad range of laws across rest of the Americas and in Asia (including the Japanese Personal Information Protection Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance, the Cybersecurity Law of the People&#8217;s Republic of China and the Australian Privacy Act). These laws impose mandatory privacy and data protection obligations, including providing for individual rights, enhanced governance and accountability requirements and significant fines and litigation risk for noncompliance. Many other jurisdictions have adopted or are proposing to adopt standards similar to the GDPR, including Australia, Singapore, Japan, Argentina, India, Brazil, Switzerland and the Cayman Islands. In addition, several jurisdictions have enacted or proposed personal data localization requirements and restrictions on cross-border transfer of personal data that may restrict our ability to conduct business in those jurisdictions or create additional financial and regulatory burdens to do so. 

Many aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information. These include those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., as well as the privacy and cybersecurity laws referenced above. We have adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions. 

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries 

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail 

securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products. 

MSPBNA offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of our affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (&#8220;MSSB&#8221;). MSPBNA also offers certain deposit products and prime brokerage custody services. 

ETB and ETSB are federal savings banks whose primary deposit-taking activities include affiliate arrangements whereby E*TRADE Securities LLC sweeps cash balances in customers&#8217; brokerage accounts to insured deposit accounts at ETB and ETSB. 

The U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are FDIC-insured depository institutions subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC and are subject to the OCC&#8217;s risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large IDI&#8217;s risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by the IDI&#8217;s board of directors. 

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take prompt corrective action with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. These regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and not to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, separately authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. Under the systemic risk regime, as described above, we also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. In addition, BHCs, such as Morgan Stanley, are required to serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress. 

Transactions with Affiliates. Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on covered transactions, as defined in the Federal Reserve Act, with any affiliates. Covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured depository institutions with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, and require collateral for those exposures. Section 23B requires affiliate transactions to be on market terms. Derivative, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates are subject to these restrictions. 

##TABLE_START 5 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) us or any of our affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by us or any of our affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions. See also &#8220;Financial Holding Company&#8212;Activities Restriction under the Volcker Rule&#8221; above. 

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same BHC. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of the U.S. Bank Subsidiaries could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of another U.S. Bank Subsidiary. In addition, the four institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. 

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management 

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation. Our primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley &#38; Co. LLC (&#8220;MS&#38;Co.&#8221;), MSSB and E*TRADE Securities LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers&#8217; funds and securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer&#8217;s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. 

MSSB is also a registered investment adviser with the SEC. MSSB&#8217;s relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non- 

compliance, including the power to restrict or limit MSSB from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. 

The Firm is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, the SEC's &#8220;Regulation Best Interest,&#8221; requires broker-dealers to act in the &#8220;best interest&#8221; of retail customers at the time a recommendation is made without placing the financial or other interests of the broker-dealer ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Certain states have enacted laws or rules, or are considering laws or rules, subjecting broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty when dealing with retail customers under a variety of circumstances. 

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve&#8217;s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, our broker-dealer subsidiaries&#8217; margin policies are more stringent than these rules. 

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the SEC&#8217;s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. These rules are generally designed to measure the broker-dealer subsidiary&#8217;s general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also &#8220;Financial Holding Company&#8212;Consolidated Supervision&#8221; and &#8220;Financial Holding Company&#8212;Liquidity Standards&#8221; above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations&#8217; assets. 

Research. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S., where FINRA has adopted rules that cover research relating to both equity and debt securities. Regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest and may impose additional regulations. See also &#8220;Business&#8212;Supervision and Regulation&#8212;Non-U.S. Regulation&#8221; herein. 

Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities. MS&#38;Co. and E*TRADE Futures LLC, as futures commission merchants, and MSSB, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their activities are regulated by, the CFTC, the NFA, the Joint Audit Committee (including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange &#38; Chicago Board of Trade (&#8220;CME Group&#8221;) in its capacity as MS&#38;Co.'s designated self-regulatory 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 6 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

organization), and various commodity futures exchanges. MS&#38;Co., E*TRADE Futures LLC and MSSB and certain of their affiliates are registered with the CFTC and are members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and regulations of the CFTC, NFA, the Joint Audit Committee (including the CME Group) and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, the margining of customer accounts and documentation entered into by futures commission merchants with their customers, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading. 

Our commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intense scrutiny of certain commodities markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. 

Derivatives Regulation. The commodity futures, commodity options and swaps industry in the U.S. is subject to regulation under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (&#8220;CEA&#8221;). The CFTC is the U.S. federal agency charged with the administration of the CEA. In addition, the SEC is the U.S. federal agency charged with the regulation of security-based swaps. The rules and regulations of various self-regulatory organizations also govern derivatives. 

Under the U.S. regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps (collectively, &#8220;Swaps&#8221;) implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are subject to comprehensive regulation of our derivatives businesses, including regulations that impose margin requirements, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of Swaps. 

CFTC rules require registration of swap dealers, mandatory clearing and execution of interest rate and certain credit default swaps and real-time public reporting and adherence to business conduct standards for all in-scope Swaps. We have registered a number of U.S. and non U.S. CFTC swap dealers. In 2020, the CFTC finalized rules establishing capital requirements for CFTC-registered swap dealers not subject to regulation by a prudential regulator. Compliance with these rules is required by October 6, 2021. 

SEC rules govern the registration and regulation of security- based swap dealers. The SEC's rules impose numerous obligations for entities that register as security-based swap dealers. Registration as a security-based swap dealer will be required starting in the fourth quarter of 2021, and compliance with a number of these rules will also be required on a similar 

timeline. We anticipate registering several entities as a security-based swap dealer. 

The specific parameters of some of these requirements for Swaps have been and continue to be developed through CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. For example, the rules for variation margin are presently effective, and those for initial margin will continue to phase in based on activity levels of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty with the final phase currently expected to begin in September 2022. Margin rules with the same or similar compliance dates have been adopted or are in the process of being finalized by regulators outside the U.S., and certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to such rules. 

Although a significant number of areas within the global derivatives regulatory framework have been finalized, additional changes are expected. As the derivatives regulatory framework continues to evolve, we expect to continue to face increased costs and regulatory oversight. Complying with registration and other regulatory requirements has required, and is expected to require in the future, systems and other changes to our derivatives businesses. Compliance with Swaps-related regulatory capital requirements may also require us to devote more capital to our businesses that engage in swaps. Our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments activities are also regulated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. See &#8220;Non-U.S. Regulation&#8221; herein. 

Investment Management 

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in our investment management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of our investment management activities are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from carrying on our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our engaging in various investment management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by our Investment Management business segment. 

Our investment management activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, covered funds, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. See 

##TABLE_START 7 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

also &#8220;Financial Holding Company&#8212;Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.&#8221; 

In addition, certain of our affiliates are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. See also &#8220;Institutional Securities and Wealth Management&#8212;Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation,&#8221; &#8220;Institutional Securities and Wealth Management&#8212;Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities,&#8221; and &#8220;Institutional Securities and Wealth Management&#8212;Derivatives Regulation&#8221; above and &#8220;Non-U.S. Regulation,&#8221; below for a discussion of other regulations that impact our Investment Management business activities. 

Non-U.S. Regulation 

All of our businesses are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. Certain regulators have prudential, business conduct and other authority over us or our subsidiaries, as well as powers to limit or restrict us from engaging in certain businesses or to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a regulated entity or its affiliates. 

Some of our subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers, investment advisers or other types of regulated entities under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities and advisory activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the PRA, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;) and several securities and futures exchanges in the U.K., including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures Europe, regulate our activities in the U.K.; the BaFin and the Deutsche B&#246;rse AG regulate certain of our activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the European Central Bank supervises certain subsidiaries in our post-Brexit structure; the Central Bank of Ireland regulates our activities in Ireland, the Financial Services Agency, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, the Bank of Japan, the Japan Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges and ministries regulate our activities in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate our business in Hong Kong; the Monetary 

Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate our business in Singapore; the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission regulate our activities in China and other similar bodies regulate our activities in Korea, Australia, India and other countries. 

Our largest non-U.S. entity, MSIP, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the PRA, which has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards applicable to MSIP that seek to ensure its safety and soundness and to minimize adverse effects on the stability of the U.K. financial system. MSIP is also regulated and supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters. 

Non-U.S. policymakers and regulators, including the PRA, the FCA, the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (among others, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks or subject us to new prudential requirements, and to formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to our European operations. 

The European Commission has enacted a package of reforms including various risk reduction measures that impact subsidiaries that operate in the E.U. These include amendments to the Capital Requirements Regulation, which will come into effect in June 2021. These reforms provide updates to risk-based capital, liquidity (including introducing a net stable funding ratio), leverage and other prudential standards on a consolidated basis that are consistent with final Basel standards. The PRA has confirmed that similar amendments will be made to U.K. regulations that, post-Brexit, now apply directly to U.K. subsidiaries, but these will not take effect until January 2022. Further details are due to be published in 2021. Details of further reforms to be implemented from 2023 onwards, covering the remaining revisions to the Basel III Framework that have not already been applied, are expected during 2021. 

Financial Crimes Program 

Our Financial Crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of our AML, economic sanctions (&#8220;Sanctions&#8221;) and anti-corruption programs. 

In the U.S., the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, BHCs and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML programs, verify the identity of customers 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 8 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. 

In addition, the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, which was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, includes substantial changes to U.S. AML laws. These include, among other changes, the proposed creation of a national registry of beneficial ownership information, the addition of new penalties and the enhancement of certain existing penalties for Bank Secrecy Act and AML violations, and requirements that the U.S. Treasury Secretary establish public priorities for AML and countering the financing of terrorism policy and review and update requirements for currency transaction reports and suspicious activity reports, including by making updates to reduce any unnecessarily burdensome regulatory requirements. 

We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Regarding Sanctions, we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and to comply, as applicable, with similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council. 

We are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. 

Human Capital 

Employees 

Our employees are our most important asset. Our ability to build value for our clients and shareholders depends on our approximately 68 thousand employees in 39 countries around the world as of December 31, 2020. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to make Morgan Stanley a diverse and inclusive workplace, with a strong culture and opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers and be supported by competitive compensation, benefits, and health and wellness programs. 

Culture 

Our core values are designed to guide decision making aligned to the expectations of our employees, clients, shareholders, regulators, directors and the communities in which we operate. These guiding values&#8212; Put Clients First, Do the Right Thing, Lead with Exceptional Ideas, Commit to Diversity and Inclusion, and Give Back &#8212;are at the heart of our workplace culture and underpin our success. Our Code of Conduct is central to our expectation that employees embody our values and, as such, every new hire and every employee annually is required to certify to their understanding of and adherence to the Code of Conduct. We also invite employee feedback on our culture and workplace through our biennial employee engagement survey. For a further discussion of the culture, values, and conduct of employees, see &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk&#8212;Risk Management.&#8221; 

Diversity and Inclusion 

We believe that a diverse workforce is important to Morgan Stanley&#8217;s continued success and our ability to serve our clients. To this end, we pursue a comprehensive diversity and inclusion strategy based on four pillars: accountability, representation, advancement and culture. To build a diverse talent pipeline, we use global, targeted recruitment and development programs to hire, retain and promote female and ethnically diverse talent. Further evidencing this commitment, in 2020, we launched the Morgan Stanley Institute for Inclusion, which will help lead an integrated and transparent diversity, equity and inclusion strategy to deliver our full potential to achieve meaningful change within our Firm and beyond, including our communities. 

Talent Development and Retention 

We are committed to identifying and developing the talents of our workforce, as well as succession planning. Our talent development programs provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build management skills and lead their organizations. We also focus on the retention of our talented and skilled employees as one key component of a successful business and culture. 

Compensation and Financial Wellness 

We pursue responsible and effective compensation programs that reinforce our values and culture through four key objectives: delivering pay for sustainable performance, attracting and retaining top talent, aligning with shareholder interests and mitigating excessive risk taking. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by location) include annual bonuses, retirement savings plans with matching contributions, student loan refinancing, free will preparation through our legal plan and supplemental life insurance program, discounted group insurance options, and a financial wellness program in the U.S. and the U.K. To promote equitable rewards for all employees, including female and ethnically diverse employees, we have enhanced our practices 

##TABLE_START 9 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

to support fair and consistent compensation and reward decisions based on merit, perform ongoing reviews of compensation decisions, including at the point of hire and promotion, and conduct regular assessments of our rewards structure. 

Health and Wellness 

The well-being of our employees is also key to the success of the Firm. To that end, we provide programs (which vary by location), including healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, adoption and surrogacy assistance, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and on-site services, such as health centers and fitness centers, among many others. Morgan Stanley sponsors free and confidential mental health counseling for all employees and their dependents (which vary by location). In 2020, the Firm introduced a new mental health benefit in the U.S. that provides access to therapists, mental health coaches and other resources. Further, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees. These changes include having the vast majority of our employees work from home and providing productivity resources when necessary, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work, committing to no reductions in force through 2020, COVID-19-specific medical benefits, extended childcare benefits and modified work schedules. 

For more detailed information regarding our Human Capital programs and initiatives, see &#8220;Our People&#8221; in our 2019 Sustainability Report and our 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Report (both located on our website). The Reports and information elsewhere on our website are not incorporated by reference into, and do not form any part of, this Annual Report. 

Human Capital Metrics 1 

##TABLE_START Category Metric At December 31, 2020 Employees Employees by geography 

(thousands) 

Americas 48 Asia Pacific 12 EMEA 8 Culture Employee engagement 2 

% Proud to work at Morgan Stanley 88 % Diversity and Inclusion Global gender representation % Female 39 % 

% Female officer 3 

26 % U.S. ethnic diversity representation % Ethnically diverse 4 

30 % % Ethnically diverse officer 3 

24 % Retention Voluntary attrition in 2020 

% Global 7 % Tenure Management Committee average length of service (years) 19 All employees average length of service (years) 7 &#160; Compensation Compensation and benefits Total compensation and benefits expense in 2020 (millions) $ 20,854 ##TABLE_END

1. Legacy E*TRADE employees are included in all metrics other than &#8220;employee engagement.&#8221; For &#8220;voluntary attrition in 2020,&#8221; E*TRADE attrition is relative to January 1, 2020 staffing levels. For &#8220;tenure,&#8221; E*TRADE tenure is based on length of service since joining E*TRADE. 

2. In 2019, 91% of employees responded to the biennial employee engagement survey. The percentage shown is based on 2019 survey results. 

3. Officer includes Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Vice Presidents, and the equivalent positions for legacy E*TRADE employees. 

4. U.S. ethnically diverse designations align with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission&#8217;s ethnicity and race categories and includes American Indian or Native Alaskan, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and two or more races. 

Information about our Executive Officers 

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their age and titles as of February 26, 2021 are set forth below. Business experience is provided in accordance with SEC rules. 

Mandell L. Crawley (45) . Chief Human Resources Officer (since February 2021). Head of Private Wealth Management (June 2017 to January 2021). Chief Marketing Officer (September 2014 to June 2017). Head of National Business Development and Talent Management for Wealth Management (June 2011 to September 2014). Divisional Business Development Officer (May 2010 to June 2011). Regional Business Development Officer (May 2009 to May 2010). Head of Field Sales and Marketing (February 2008 to May 2009). Head of Fixed Income Capital Markets Sales and Distribution for Wealth Management (April 2004 to February 2008). 

James P. Gorman (62) . Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 to December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief 

##TABLE_START December 2020 Form 10-K 10 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START 

##TABLE_END

Operating Officer of Wealth Management (February 2006 to April 2008). 

Eric F. Grossman (54) . Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Wealth Management (November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk &#38; Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005). 

Keishi Hotsuki (58) . Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007). 

Edward N. Pick (52) . Head of Institutional Securities (since July 2018). Global Head of Sales and Trading (October 2015 to July 2018). Head of Global Equities (March 2011 to October 2015). Co-Head of Global Equities (April 2009 to March 2011). Co-Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2008 to April 2009). Co-Head of Global Equity Capital Markets (December 2005 to July 2008). 

Jonathan M. Pruzan (52) . Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2015) and Head of Corporate Strategy (since December 2016). Co-Head of Global Financial Institutions Group (January 2010 to April 2015). Co-Head of North American Financial Institutions Group M&#38;A (September 2007 to December 2009). Head of the U.S. Bank Group (April 2005 to August 2007). 

Robert P. Rooney (53) . Head of Technology, Operations and Firm Resilience (since April 2019). Head of Technology (January 2017 to April 2019). Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International and Head of Europe, the Middle East and Africa (January 2016 to May 2018). Global Co-Head of Fixed Income Sales and Trading (May 2013 to January 2016). Head of Fixed Income for Europe, the Middle East and Africa and Global Head of Fixed Income Sales (September 2009 to May 2013). 

Andrew M. Saperstein (54) . Head of Wealth Management (since April 2019). Co-Head of Wealth Management (January 2016 to April 2019). Co-Chief Operating Officer of Institutional Securities (March 2015 to January 2016). Head of Wealth Management Investment Products and Services (June 2012 to March 2015). 

Daniel A. Simkowitz (55) . Head of Investment Management (since October 2015). Co-Head of Global Capital Markets (March 2013 to September 2015). Chairman of Global Capital Markets (November 2009 to March 2013). Managing Director in Global Capital Markets (December 2000 to November 2009). 

##TABLE_START 11 

December 2020 Form 10-K ##TABLE_END

