 Item 1. Business 

General 

First Citizens BancShares, Inc. (the &#8220;Parent Company&#8221; and when including all of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, &#8220;BancShares,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on August 7, 1986, to become the holding company of First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company (&#8220;FCB,&#8221; or the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), its banking subsidiary. FCB opened in 1898 as the Bank of Smithfield in Smithfield, North Carolina, and later changed its name to First-Citizens Bank &#38; Trust Company. 

BancShares has expanded through de novo branching and acquisitions and as of December 31, 2022, operates 550 branches in 22 states, predominantly located in the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and Western United States, providing a broad range of financial services to individuals, businesses and professionals. At December 31, 2022, BancShares had total consolidated assets of $109.3 billion. 

Throughout its history, the operations of BancShares have been significantly influenced by descendants of Robert P. Holding, who came to control FCB during the 1920s. Robert P. Holding&#8217;s children and grandchildren have served as members of the Board of Directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;), as chief executive officers and in other executive management positions and, since BancShares&#8217; formation in 1986, have remained stockholders owning a large percentage of its common stock. 

The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Frank B. Holding, Jr., is the grandson of Robert P. Holding. Hope Holding Bryant, Vice Chairwoman of BancShares, is Robert P. Holding&#8217;s granddaughter. Peter M. Bristow, President of BancShares, is the brother-in-law of Frank B. Holding, Jr. and Hope Holding Bryant. 

BancShares provides financial services for a wide range of consumer and commercial clients. This includes retail and mortgage banking, wealth management, commercial and middle market banking, factoring and leasing. In addition to our banking operations, we provide various investment products and services through FCB&#8217;s wholly owned subsidiaries, First Citizens Investor Services, Inc. (&#8220;FCIS&#8221;) and First Citizens Asset Management, Inc. (&#8220;FCAM&#8221;). As a registered broker-dealer, FCIS provides a full range of investment products, including annuities, discount brokerage services and third-party mutual funds. As registered investment advisors, FCIS and FCAM provide investment management services and advice. 

As a result of BancShares&#8217; merger (the &#8220;CIT Merger&#8221;) with CIT Group Inc. (&#8220;CIT&#8221;) and its subsidiary CIT Bank, N.A., a national banking association (&#8220;CIT Bank&#8221;), BancShares acquired a registered broker-dealer, registered investment adviser, a wide range of commercial lending, leasing, and deposit products, as well as ancillary services and products, that span various industries. BancShares now also provides commercial factoring, receivables management and secured financing services to businesses (generally manufacturers or importers of goods) that operate in various industries, including apparel, textile, furniture, home furnishings and consumer electronics. In addition, BancShares owns a fleet of railcars and locomotives that are leased to railroads and shippers. 

BancShares delivers products and services to its customers through an extensive branch network and additionally operates a nationwide digital bank. Services offered at most branches include accepting deposits, cashing checks and providing for consumer and commercial cash needs. Consumer and business customers may also conduct banking transactions through various digital channels. 

Statistical information regarding our business activities is found in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Business Combinations 

BancShares pursues growth through strategic mergers and acquisitions to enhance organizational value, strengthen its presence in existing markets, as well as expand its footprint in new markets. 

On January 3, 2022 (the &#8220;Merger Date&#8221;), BancShares completed its largest acquisition to date with the merger with CIT and CIT Bank. CIT had consolidated total assets of approximately $53.2 billion at December 31, 2021. The merger with CIT is described further in the &#8220;Business Combinations&#8221; discussion below and the &#8220;Business Combinations&#8221; section of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2 &#8212; Business Combinations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

As a result of the CIT Merger, FCB is now a top 20 U.S. bank based on asset size with more than $100 billion in total assets. BancShares believes that the CIT Merger allowed for the combination of organizations with complementary strengths, combining FCB&#8217;s robust retail franchise and full suite of banking products with CIT&#8217;s strong market position in nationwide commercial lending and direct digital banking. The combined banking organization leverages the capabilities of both legacy banks to serve a broader spectrum of businesses and individuals, while offering convenience, scale and value. 

Business Segments 

As of December 31, 2021, BancShares managed its business and reported its financial results as a single segment. BancShares began reporting multiple segments during the first quarter of 2022 and now reports General Banking, Commercial Banking, Rail, and Corporate segments. BancShares conformed the comparative prior periods presented to reflect the new segments. The substantial majority of BancShares&#8217; operations for historical periods prior to completion of the CIT Merger are included in the General Banking segment. The Commercial Banking and Rail segments primarily relate to operations acquired in the CIT Merger. Reportable segments are discussed further in the &#8220;Results by Business Segments&#8221; section of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 23 &#8212; Business Segment Information. 

##TABLE_START SEGMENT MARKETS AND SERVICES General Banking &#8226; Delivers services to individuals and businesses through an extensive branch network and various digital channels, including a full suite of deposit products, loans (primarily business/commercial loans and residential mortgages), and various fee-based services. 

&#8226; Provides a variety of wealth management products and services to individuals and institutional clients, including brokerage, investment advisory, and trust services. 

&#8226; Provides deposit, cash management and lending to homeowner associations and property management companies. 

Commercial Banking &#8226; Provides lending, leasing, capital markets and other financial and advisory services, primarily to small and middle-market companies across a variety of industries. 

&#8226; Provides asset-based lending, factoring, receivables management products and supply chain financing. 

Rail &#8226; Provides equipment leasing and secured financing to railroads and shippers. 

Corporate &#8226; Earning assets primarily include investment securities and interest-earning deposits at banks. 

&#8226; Certain items are not allocated to operating segments and are included in Corporate. Some of the more significant and recurring items that are not allocated to operating segments include interest income on investment securities, income on bank owned life insurance (&#8220;BOLI&#8221;), a portion of interest expense primarily related to brokered deposits and corporate funding costs, mark-to-market adjustments on equity securities and foreign currency hedges, merger-related expenses, intangible assets amortization expenses, as well as certain unallocated interest income and other costs. 

##TABLE_END

General Banking 

Our General Banking segment delivers products and services to consumers and businesses through our extensive network of branches and various digital channels. We offer a full suite of deposit products, loans, cash management, wealth, payments and various other fee-based services. We offer conforming and jumbo residential mortgage loans throughout the United States which are primarily originated through branches and retail referrals, employee referrals, internet leads, direct marketing and a correspondent lending channel. The General Banking segment also includes our nationwide digital banking, which is largely comprised of the internet banking platform we acquired in the CIT Merger (the &#8220;Direct Bank&#8221;), that delivers deposit products to consumers. We additionally have a dedicated business line that supports deposit, cash management and lending to homeowner associations and property management companies nationwide. Our General Banking segment is the primary deposit gathering business of FCB. 

Revenue is generated from interest earned on loans and from fees for banking and advisory services. We source our consumer and business/commercial lending business through our branch network and industry referrals, as well as direct digital marketing efforts. We periodically purchase loans on a whole-loan basis. We source our Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) loans through a network of SBA originators. We also make community development investments and loans that support the construction of affordable housing in our communities in line with our CRA initiatives. 

Commercial Banking 

Our Commercial Banking segment provides a range of lending, leasing, capital markets, asset management and other financial and advisory services primarily to small and middle market companies in a wide range of industries including aerospace and defense, communication, power and energy, entertainment, gaming, healthcare, industrials, maritime, real estate, restaurants, retail, services and technology. Loans offered are primarily senior secured loans collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, transportation equipment and/or intangibles, and are often used for working capital, plant expansion, acquisitions or recapitalizations. These loans include revolving lines of credit and term loans and, depending on the nature of the collateral, may be referred to as collateral-backed loans, asset-based loans or cash flow loans. We provide senior secured loans to developers and other commercial real estate professionals. Additionally, we provide small business loans and leases, including both capital and operating leases, through a highly automated credit approval, documentation and funding process. 

We provide factoring, receivable management, and secured financing to businesses that operate in several industries, including apparel, textile, furniture, home furnishings and consumer electronics. Factoring entails the assumption of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable arising from the sale of goods by our clients to their customers (generally retailers) that have been factored (i.e., sold or assigned to the factor). A client is the counterparty on any factoring, financing, or receivables purchasing agreement to sell trade receivables to us, and generally is a manufacturer or importer of goods. A customer is the account debtor and obligor on trade accounts receivable that have been factored with and assigned to the factor. 

Revenue is generated from interest earned on loans, rent on equipment leased, fees and other revenue from lending and leasing activities, banking services, and capital markets transactions, along with commissions earned on factoring and related activities. We source our commercial lending business primarily through direct marketing to borrowers, lessees, manufacturers, vendors and distributors, and through referral sources and other intermediaries. We may periodically buy participations or syndications of loans and lines of credit and purchase loans on a whole-loan basis. 

Rail 

Rail offers customized leasing and financing solutions on a fleet of railcars and locomotives to railroads and shippers throughout North America. Railcar types include covered hopper cars used to ship grain and agricultural products, plastic pellets, sand, and cement; tank cars for energy products and chemicals; gondolas for coal, steel coil and mill service products; open-top hopper cars for coal and aggregates; boxcars for paper and auto parts; and centerbeams and flat cars for lumber. Revenue is generated primarily from rent on equipment leased. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. BancShares competes with national, regional and local financial services providers. In recent years, the ability of non-bank financial entities to provide services has intensified competition. Non-bank financial service providers are not subject to the same significant regulatory restrictions as traditional commercial banks. More than ever, customers have the ability to select from a variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits and customer convenience. 

As of December 31, 2021, FCB&#8217;s primary deposit markets were North Carolina and South Carolina, which represented approximately 50.8% and 22.7%, respectively, of total FCB deposits. Deposits (based on branch location) as of December 31, 2022, in North Carolina and South Carolina represented approximately 39.7%, and 13.3%, respectively, of total deposits. FCB&#8217;s deposit market share as of June 30, 2022 in North Carolina and South Carolina was 7.3% and 9.3%, respectively, which makes FCB the fourth largest bank in both North Carolina and South Carolina based on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) Deposit Market Share Report. The three banks larger than FCB based on deposits in North Carolina and South Carolina were Bank of America, Truist Bank and Wells Fargo. These banks collectively controlled 72.5% and 44.2% of North Carolina and South Carolina deposits, respectively. Additionally, the CIT Merger added deposits that were primarily related to the Digital Bank of $16.47 billion or 18.4% of total FCB deposits as of December 31, 2022. 

As of December 31, 2022, FCB had 582 total domestic branches and offices, which included 219 in North Carolina, 126 in South Carolina and 68 in California. 

On July 9, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy (the &#8220;Executive Order&#8221;), which encouraged the federal banking agencies, to review the current framework for merger oversight practices under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;) and the Bank Merger Act. The Executive Order has received significant public support from members of Congress as well as from members of the board of the FDIC and Federal Reserve and the Acting Comptroller of the Currency. The review is ongoing by the agencies, and no formal changes have been announced. The adoption of more expansive or prescriptive standards could impact our future potential acquisitions. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors below for additional information. 

Geographic Locations 

As of December 31, 2022, BancShares operated branches in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, Nebraska, New Mexico, Nevada, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and West Virginia. 

Human Capital 

As of December 31, 2022, BancShares employed approximately 10,375 full-time staff and approximately 309 part-time staff for a total of 10,684 employees. Women and ethnically diverse associates make up approximately 61% and 33% of total employees, respectively, and our Executive Leadership Team includes three women. 

Our ability to attract, retain and develop associates who align with our purpose is key to our success. BancShares&#8217; human capital strategy is predicated on ensuring the organization has the right people with the right skills in the right places at the right time for the right cost to fulfill its mandate and strategic objectives. Our human resources team works to formalize the process of defining and deploying the mission-critical talent needed to align BancShares with the financial and strategic goals and objectives. Key human capital initiatives include scaling and developing talent, enhancing performance management and coaching, and accelerating inclusion, equity and diversity initiatives. The retention and integration of key CIT employees has been a significant initiative. The Board monitors these initiatives and associated risks primarily through its Risk Committee. 

To assist with these goals, we monitor and evaluate various metrics, specifically around attraction, retention and development of talent. Our annual voluntary turnover is relatively low compared to the industry. We believe this reflects our strong corporate culture, competitive compensation and benefit structures and commitment to career development. 

Compensation and Benefits 

We strive to provide robust compensation and benefits to our employees. In addition to salaries, compensation and benefit programs include a 401(k) plan with employer matching opportunities, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off and other employee assistance programs. 

Regulatory Considerations 

Various laws and regulations administered by regulatory agencies affect BancShares&#8217; corporate practices, including the payment of dividends, the incurrence of debt, and the acquisition of financial institutions and other companies. Laws and regulations also affect business practices, such as the payment of interest on deposits, the charging of interest on loans, the types of business conducted and the location of offices. Certain subsidiaries of the Parent Company and FCB are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), state regulatory agencies, and other regulatory authorities as &#8220;regulated entities.&#8221; FCB&#8217;s insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies. 

In general, numerous statutes and regulations also apply to and restrict the activities of BancShares, including limitations on the ability to pay dividends, capital requirements, reserve requirements, deposit insurance requirements and restrictions on transactions with related persons and entities controlled by related persons. The impact of these statutes and regulations is discussed below and in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

BancShares has over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, and is now subject to certain enhanced prudential standards and enhanced oversight under the applicable transition provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) by the Federal Reserve Board (&#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221; or &#8220;FRB&#8221;), and the FDIC with respect to FCB. As BancShares continues to grow, BancShares will become subject to additional regulatory requirements, based on the tailored regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets, and adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;EGRRCPA&#8221;). 

In connection with the CIT Merger, FCB established as a wholly-owned subsidiary, FC International, Inc. (&#8220;FC International&#8221;), which is a corporation chartered by the Federal Reserve pursuant to Section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (&#8220;Edge Act&#8221;) and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation K. Edge Act corporations are international banking organizations that are authorized to engage in international banking and foreign financial transactions, and the U.S. activities of such corporations are generally limited to those that are incidental to their foreign operations. FCB established FC International for the purpose of holding the equity interests in the foreign nonbank subsidiaries (&#8220;foreign companies&#8221;) that FCB acquired in the CIT Merger. Certain of the foreign companies have been, or are in the process of being, wound-down or dissolved. The other foreign companies acquired by FCB support the railcar leasing business acquired from CIT in Canada and Mexico. FC International is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve, including examination, reporting, capital, and Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (&#8220;BSA&#8221;) and anti-money laundering (&#8220;AML&#8221;) requirements, pursuant to the Edge Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation K. 

Dodd-Frank Act . The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, significantly restructured the financial services regulatory environment; imposed significant regulatory and compliance changes on the financial services industry; increased capital, leverage and liquidity requirements for banking organizations; and expanded the scope of oversight responsibility of certain federal agencies through the creation of new oversight bodies. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;) with broad powers to supervise and enforce federal consumer financial protection laws. 

EGRRCPA. Enacted in 2018, the EGRRCPA, while largely preserving the fundamental elements of the post-Dodd-Frank Act regulatory framework, modified certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act as they applied to regional and community banking organizations. Certain of the significant requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are listed below with information regarding how they apply to BancShares following the enactment of the EGRRCPA. 

&#8226; Asset Threshold for Applicability of Dodd-Frank Act Enhanced Prudential Standards and Enhanced Supervision. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated the applicability of enhanced prudential standards (including enhanced liquidity and capital requirements, enterprise-wide risk management requirements, concentration limits, resolution plans and credit exposure report requirements, etc.) and enhanced supervision of bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets. The EGRRCPA raised the asset threshold for mandatory applicability of enhanced prudential standards to $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, and gives the FRB the discretion to apply any enhanced prudential standards to banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total assets on a tailored basis based on asset size and other risk-related factors to prevent or mitigate risks to the financial stability of the United States or to promote the safety and soundness of a bank holding company. In November 2019, the FRB, along with the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;), adopted a framework for tailoring the applicability of enhanced prudential standards for banking organizations with $100 billion or more in assets (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). The Tailoring Rules are further discussed below. Total assets are calculated based on a trailing four-quarter average. BancShares first became subject to the enhanced prudential standards in connection with the CIT Merger, and now BancShares is treated as a Category IV banking organization under the Tailoring Rules, as further discussed below. 

&#8226; Capital Planning and Stress Testing. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated company-run stress tests be performed by banking organizations with $10 billion or more in total assets to ensure financial institutions have sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during multiple economic and bank scenarios. The EGRRCPA gave immediate relief from the Dodd-Frank Act and company-run stress testing for banking organizations with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets. Therefore, BancShares is not subject to Dodd-Frank Act company-run stress testing (&#8220;DFAST&#8221;) until such time that it has $250 billion or more in total assets, based on a trailing four-quarter average. Notwithstanding these amendments to the stress testing requirements, bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to supervisory stress testing by the FRB under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (&#8220;CCAR&#8221;). BancShares has over $100 billion in total consolidated assets, and we are subject to biennial supervisory stress testing by the Federal Reserve under the CCAR process as a Category IV banking organization in accordance with the applicable transition provisions. BancShares, as a Category IV banking organization, is also required to develop, maintain, and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. BancShares has made substantial progress in developing policies, programs, and systems designed to comply with capital planning and stress testing requirements. 

&#8226; Resolution Planning. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the EGRRCPA, bank holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to develop and maintain resolution plans (commonly referred to as &#8220;Living Wills&#8221;) to support the orderly resolution of large banking organizations. Under the regulations promulgated by the FRB and FDIC implementing the Living Wills requirement, currently only Category I, II, and III banking organizations are required to submit resolution plans. Therefore, BancShares as a Category IV banking organization is not required to submit a resolution plan under the Living Wills requirement. As further discussed below, FCB is required to submit a resolution plan under the FDIC&#8217;s resolution plan requirement for insured depository institutions (&#8220;IDIs&#8221;) with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets under its covered insured depository institution rule (&#8220;CIDI Rule&#8221;). 

&#8226; The Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule was promulgated to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. It generally prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exemptions. The EGRRCPA exempted many financial institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion from the Volcker Rule, but it continues to apply to BancShares. However, the Volcker Rule does not significantly impact our operations as we do not have any significant engagement in such prohibited businesses. 

&#8226; Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule . Creditors are required to comply with mortgage reform provisions prohibiting the origination of any residential mortgages that do not meet rigorous Qualified Mortgage (&#8220;QM&#8221;) standards or Ability-to-Repay (&#8220;ATR&#8221;) standards. All mortgage loans originated by FCB meet ATR standards and a substantial majority also meet QM standards. The EGRRCPA impact on the original ATR and QM standards is only applicable to banks with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. 

&#8226; Reciprocal Deposits are not treated as Brokered Deposits. Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDI Act&#8221;) and the FDIC&#8217;s implementing regulations limit the ability of an IDI to accept brokered deposits unless the institution is well-capitalized under the Prompt Corrective Action (the &#8220;PCA&#8221;) under the FDI Act, or the IDI is adequately capitalized and obtains a waiver from the FDIC. IDIs that are less than well-capitalized are not able to accept brokered deposits, and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates paid on deposits. In addition, deposits that are considered &#8220;brokered&#8221; are subject to higher deposit assessments. EGRRCPA amended the FDI Act to add a limited exception under which IDIs that are well-capitalized or adequately capitalized and meet certain other criteria are able to exempt from treatment as &#8220;brokered&#8221; deposits up to $5 billion or 20 percent of the institution&#8217;s total liabilities in reciprocal deposits (defined generally as deposits received by a depository institution through a deposit placement network with the same maturity and in the same aggregate amount as deposits placed by the depository institution in other network institutions). In addition, in December 2020, the FDIC amended its regulations governing &#8220;brokered deposits&#8221; to clarify and modernize this regulatory framework. Notable aspects of the final rule include (1) the establishment of bright-line standards for determining whether an entity meets the statutory definition of &#8220;deposit broker&#8221;; (2) the identification of a number of business relationships that qualify for the &#8220;primary purpose&#8221; exception for agents to avoid being deemed a &#8220;deposit broker&#8221; for the placement of funds with depository institutions; (3) the establishment of a more transparent application process for entities that seek to rely upon the &#8220;primary purpose&#8221; exception but do not qualify for one of the identified exceptions for business relationships deemed to satisfy the &#8220;primary purpose&#8221; exception; and (4) the clarification that third parties that have an exclusive deposit-placement arrangement with one IDI are not considered a &#8220;deposit broker.&#8221; The final rule became effective April 1, 2021, with full compliance required by January 1, 2022. 

First Citizens BancShares, Inc. 

General. As a bank holding company registered under the BHCA, the Parent Company is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a &#8220;financial holding company&#8221; (&#8220;FHC&#8221;), the Parent Company may engage in or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; as long as the Parent Company continues to meet the eligible requirements for FHC status, including that the Parent Company and FCB each remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed.&#8221; Activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, advising mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant banking, and any activities that the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be in &#8220;financial in nature,&#8221; &#8220;complementary&#8221; or &#8220;incidental&#8221; to such financial activity. The Parent Company is also registered under the bank holding company laws of North Carolina and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks (&#8220;NCCOB&#8221;). 

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Enhanced Supervision . A bank holding company with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more is subject to enhanced prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by EGRRCPA, with the requirements tailored based on risk-based factors identified by the federal banking agencies. Consistent with the authority of the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company with $100 billion or more in assets, but less than $250 billion in assets is subject to certain enhanced prudential standards as implemented by the Tailoring Rules. Under the Tailoring Rules, banking organizations are grouped into four categories, based on asset size, off-balance sheet exposure, nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, and cross-jurisdictional activities. Category I banking organizations (i.e., U.S. GSIBs) are subject to the most stringent enhanced prudential requirements, and Category IV banking organizations (i.e., between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets, and less than $75 billion in nonbank assets, off-balance sheet exposure, cross-jurisdictional activities, and weighted short-term wholesale funding) are subject to the least stringent requirements. 

BancShares has between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets and therefore, is required to comply with certain enhanced prudential standards applicable to Category IV banking organizations, subject to the applicable transition periods. BancShares has developed policies, programs, and systems designed to meet such enhanced prudential standards, including annual capital plan submissions and supervisory stress testing by the Federal Reserve under CCAR, enhanced enterprise-wide risk management requirements, and enhanced liquidity management requirements, including liquidity stress tests and liquidity buffer requirements. In the event BancShares&#8217; assets grow to meet or exceed the thresholds for the asset size or other risk-based factors, BancShares will be subject to other enhanced prudential standards on a tailored basis. For example, if BancShares has $50 billion or more in weighted short-term wholesale funding, it will be subject to modified liquidity coverage ratio (&#8220;LCR&#8221;) and net stable funding ratio (&#8220;NSFR&#8221;) requirements. In the event BancShares becomes a Category III banking organization, BancShares will be subject to full or reduced LCR and NSFR requirements, annual company-run capital stress testing, resolution planning requirements, annual supervisory capital stress testing under CCAR, additional risk-based capital requirements (countercyclical buffer), the supplementary leverage ratio, and additional liquidity reporting requirements. 

Permitted Activities . A bank holding company is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities the Federal Reserve determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies, such as the Parent Company, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve), without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Activities financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, serving as an insurance agent and underwriter and engaging in merchant banking. 

Acquisitions. The Parent Company is subject to various laws that may require regulatory approval for acquisitions. For example, under the BHCA, a bank holding company must obtain approval from the Federal Reserve prior to directly or indirectly acquiring ownership or control of 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of another bank holding company or bank or prior to merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. The BHCA and other federal laws enumerate the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the merger of bank holding companies, the acquisition of banks or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or bank holding company. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations' compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 of the IDI involved in the transaction. 

Status Requirements. To maintain FHC status, a FHC and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be well-capitalized and well-managed. A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be well-capitalized if it satisfies the requirements for this status under applicable Federal Reserve capital requirements. A depository institution subsidiary is considered well managed if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination. As a Category IV banking organization, BancShares will transition from the Federal Reserve&#8217;s RFI rating system to the rating system for large financial institutions (&#8220;LFI&#8221;), referred to as the LFI rating system. Under the LFI rating system, the FRB assigns ratings based on three supervisory components: (i) capital planning and positions, (ii) liquidity risk management and positions, and (iii) governance and controls. The LFI rating system scale differs from the RFI rating system scale. The LFI rating system has a four-category, non-numeric rating scale with no single composite rating or scoring. The four rating categories are &#8220;Broadly Meets Expectations,&#8221; &#8220;Conditionally Meets Expectations,&#8221; &#8220;Deficient-1&#8221; and &#8220;Deficient-2.&#8221; A banking organization must receive at least &#8220;Conditionally Meets Expectations&#8221; for each of the component ratings to be considered &#8220;well managed.&#8221; If a FHC ceases to meet these capital and management requirements, the Federal Reserve may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities. 

Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on bank holding companies under the BHCA, including a minimum leverage ratio and minimum ratios of &#8220;qualifying&#8221; capital to risk-weighted assets. The metrics utilized to measure regulatory capital include the Tier 1 leverage ratio and the total, Tier 1, and common equity Tier 1 risk based capital ratios (collectively, the &#8220;Regulatory Capital Ratios&#8221;). Federal banking agencies approved regulatory capital guidelines (&#8220;Basel III&#8221;) aimed at strengthening previous capital requirements for banking organizations. Basel III became effective for BancShares on January 1, 2015 and the associated capital conservation buffers of 2.5% were fully phased in by January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Additionally, federal banking agencies have developed PCA well-capitalized thresholds for Regulatory Capital Ratios. The following table includes the Basel III requirements and PCA well-capitalized thresholds for the Regulatory Capital Ratios. 

##TABLE_START Basel III Minimums Basel III Conservation Buffers Basel III Requirements PCA Well-Capitalized Thresholds Regulatory Capital Ratios Total risk-based capital 8.00 % 2.50 % 10.50 % 10.00 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 6.00 2.50 8.50 8.00 Common equity Tier 1 4.50 2.50 7.00 6.50 Tier 1 leverage 4.00 &#8212; 4.00 5.00 ##TABLE_END

Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements may result in certain actions by federal banking agencies that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of BancShares and constraints on capital distributions and discretionary executive compensation. As of December 31, 2022, the Regulatory Capital Ratios of BancShares exceeded the applicable Basel III requirements and the well-capitalized thresholds as further addressed under &#8220;Stockholders&#8217; Equity and Capital Adequacy&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

As a result of the CIT Merger, BancShares will be subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s stress capital buffer (&#8220;SCB&#8221;) requirement, which is set through CCAR stress testing. On January 19, 2021, the Federal Reserve finalized regulatory amendments related to the SCB requirements for Category IV banking organizations to be consistent with the Tailoring Rules. The SCB reflects losses under the severely adverse scenario of the CCAR supervisory stress tests. The Federal Reserve calculates a SCB as the greater of (i) the difference between the firm&#8217;s starting and minimum projected Common Equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;) Risk-Based Capital Ratio under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test, plus the sum of dollar amount of the firm&#8217;s planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon as a percentage of risk-weighted assets, or (ii) 2.5 percent. The SCB calculated by the Federal Reserve replaces the static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer required by Basel III. As noted above, the CCAR supervisory stress tests are distinct from DFAST, and BancShares will not be subject to DFAST requirements until it has $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, pursuant to the EGRRCPA. 

Source of Strength . Under the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies are required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Under this requirement, the Parent Company is expected to commit resources to support FCB, including times when the Parent Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans made by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness . The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. As noted above, BancShares became a Category IV banking organization and is subject to enhanced prudential standards and enhanced supervision under the Tailoring Rules subject to the applicable transition periods. 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments . The Parent Company is a legal entity, separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Revenues of the Parent Company primarily result from dividends received from FCB. There are various legal limitations applicable to the payment of dividends by FCB to the Parent Company and to the payment of dividends by the Parent Company to its stockholders. The payment of dividends by FCB or the Parent Company may be limited by certain factors, such as requirements to maintain capital above regulatory guidelines. Bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit FCB or the Parent Company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of FCB or the Parent Company, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. BancShares became a Category IV banking organization and is required to submit a capital plan annually to the Federal Reserve in accordance with the applicable transition provisions. The annual capital plan will include planned capital distributions over a specified forecasting horizon. BancShares is subject to biennial supervisory capital stress testing under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process. The SCB would replace the static 2.5% component of the capital conservation buffer with a capital buffer that is based on supervisory stress test results and the Parent Company&#8217;s planned capital distributions. As discussed above, BancShares&#8217; SCB would be calculated as the greater of (i) the difference between BancShares&#8217; starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the severely adverse scenario in the supervisory stress test plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and (ii) 2.5 percent. BancShares&#8217; supervisory stress testing results under CCAR could impact the ability of the Parent Company to declare dividends or make other capital distributions, including common share repurchases. 

Additionally, under the FDI Act, IDIs, such as FCB, are prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distributions, the institution would become &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; as such term is used in the statute. Additionally, under Basel III capital guidelines, banking institutions with a Regulatory Capital Ratio above the Basel III minimum, but below the Basel III requirement will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Based on FCB&#8217;s current financial condition, the Parent Company currently does not expect these provisions to have any material impact on its ability to receive dividends from FCB. The Parent Company&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries pay dividends to the Parent Company periodically on a non-regulated basis. 

Crypto-Asset Related Activities . On August 16, 2022, the FRB released supervisory guidance (&#8220;SR 22-6&#8221;) encouraging all banking organizations supervised by the agency to notify its lead supervisory point of contact at the Federal Reserve prior to engaging in any crypto-asset related activity. Prior to engaging in any such activities, the banking organization is expected to ensure that the activities are legally permissible under relevant state and federal laws, and ensure that the banking organization has adequate systems, risk management, and controls to ensure that the activities are conducted in a safe and sound manner consistent with applicable laws, including consumer protection laws. On April 7, 2022, the FDIC issued a financial institution letter also requiring its supervised institutions to provide notice and obtain supervisory feedback prior to engaging in any crypto-related activities. BancShares does not engage in any such activities. 

Subsidiary Bank - FCB 

General. FCB is a state-chartered bank, subject to supervision and examination by, and the regulations and reporting requirements of, the FDIC and the NCCOB. Deposit obligations are insured by the FDIC to the maximum legal limits. As an IDI with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, FCB is subject to certain additional requirements under the FDIC&#8217;s regulations (e.g., Resolution Plans under the CIDI Rule, additional reporting in the Call Report using FFIEC Form 031 rather than Form 041). FCB is also subject to enforcement, supervisory and examination authorities of the CFPB. 

FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessment Rates. As an IDI, FCB is required to pay the FDIC premiums for deposit insurance. On October 18, 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules by 2 points, beginning in the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. This price increase will be instituted to account for extraordinary growth in insured deposits during the first and second quarters of 2020 which caused the Depositors Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) reserve ratio to decline below the statutory minimum of 1.35%. The increased assessment rate schedules will remain in effect until the reserve ratio meets or exceeds 2 percent, absent further action by the FDIC. 

Capital Requirements. The Basel III and PCA well-capitalized thresholds for the Regulatory Capital Ratios are described above in the Parent Company &#8220;Capital Requirements&#8221; discussion. Failure to meet regulatory capital requirements may result in certain actions by federal banking agencies that could have a direct material effect on the consolidated financial statements of FCB. As of December 31, 2022, the Regulatory Capital Ratios of FCB exceeded the applicable Basel III requirements and the well-capitalized thresholds as further addressed under &#8220;Stockholders&#8217; Equity and Capital Adequacy&#8221; in Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Although FCB is unable to control the external factors influencing its business, by maintaining high levels of balance sheet liquidity, prudently managing interest rate exposures, ensuring capital positions remain strong and actively monitoring asset quality, FCB seeks to minimize the potentially adverse risks of unforeseen and unfavorable economic trends and to take advantage of favorable economic conditions and opportunities when appropriate. 

Covered Insured Depository Institution Contingency Planning Requirements . Under the FDIC&#8217;s CIDI Rule, an IDI with $50 billion or more in total assets is required to submit periodically to the FDIC a contingency plan for the resolution of the institution in the event of its failure (&#8220;Resolution Plan&#8221;). The FDIC requires the Resolution Plan to ensure that the FDIC, as receiver, would be able to resolve the institution pursuant to the receivership provisions of the FDI Act. In April 2019, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to amend the CIDI Rule, and suspended the requirement to submit Resolution Plans until further notice. In January 2021, the FDIC announced that it would resume Resolution Plan requirements for IDIs with $100 billion in assets. On June 25, 2021, the FDIC issued a policy statement, describing a new framework for the implementation of the CIDI Rule. The FDIC has stated that it will provide covered IDIs with 12 months advance notice prior to the submission deadline of its Resolution Plan. 

FCB has not previously submitted a Resolution Plan under the CIDI Rule. FCB has been informed by the FDIC that it will be required to submit its first Resolution Plan under the CIDI Rule once notified by the FDIC. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, Regulation W and Regulation O, the authority of FCB to engage in transactions with related parties or &#8220;affiliates&#8221; or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between FCB and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to FCB, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, FCB generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

FCB receives management fees from its subsidiaries and the Parent Company for expenses incurred for performing various functions on their behalf. These fees are charged to each company based upon the estimated cost for usage of services by that company. The fees are eliminated from the consolidated financial statements. 

Community Reinvestment Act . FCB is subject to the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;). The CRA imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of the local communities, including low- and moderate-income (&#8220;LMI&#8221;) neighborhoods. If FCB receives a rating from the Federal Reserve of less than &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; under the CRA, restrictions would be imposed on our operating activities. In addition, in order for a FHC, like the Parent Company, to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each IDI subsidiary of the FHC must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the CRA. FCB currently has a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating. 

On May 5, 2022, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking to revise the regulations implementing the CRA. Under the proposal, the agencies would evaluate bank performance across the varied activities they conduct and communities in which they operate, and tailor CRA evaluations and data collection to bank size and type. Further, the agencies would also emphasize smaller value loans and investments that can have high impact and be more responsive to the needs of LMI communities, and would update CRA assessment areas to include activities associated with online and mobile banking, branchless banking, and hybrid models. Additionally, the proposal would adopt a metrics-based approach to CRA evaluations of retail lending and community development financing, including public benchmarks, and clarify eligible CRA activities, such as affordable housing, that are focused on LMI, underserved, and rural communities. 

As part of the CIT Merger, BancShares adopted a community benefit plan, developed in collaboration with representatives of community reinvestment organizations, for the combined bank. Under the Community Benefit Plan, FCB will invest $16 billion in the communities served by FCB, including $2.5 billion in home purchase mortgage loans focusing on LMI and minority borrowers in majority-minority (&#8220;MM&#8221;) geographies and $5 million in discounts or subsidies on home purchase and home improvement loans to borrowers in MM census tracts in the combined bank&#8217;s footprint in California. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the United States Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Asset Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) Regulation . Governmental policy in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The BSA and subsequent laws and regulations require financial institutions to take steps to prevent the use of their systems to facilitate the flow of illegal or illicit money or terrorist funds and to report certain activity to the government. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (&#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;) significantly expanded AML and financial transparency laws and regulations by imposing new compliance and due diligence obligations, including standards for verifying customer identification at account opening and maintaining expanded records, as well as rules promoting cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying persons who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. These rules were expanded to require new customer due diligence and beneficial ownership requirements in 2018. 

An institution subject to the BSA, such as FCB (and FC International), in addition to maintaining a written BSA/AML compliance program, must also provide AML training to employees, designate an AML compliance officer and annually audit the AML program to assess its effectiveness. The United States has imposed economic sanctions on transactions with certain designated foreign countries, nationals and others. As these rules are administrated by OFAC, these are generally known as the OFAC rules. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate BSA, AML and OFAC programs, or to comply with all the relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences, including material fines and sanctions. FCB has implemented a program designed to facilitate compliance with the full extent of the applicable BSA and OFAC related laws, regulations and related sanctions. 

On January 1, 2021, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act, which enacted the most significant overhaul of the BSA and related anti-money laundering laws since the Patriot Act. Notable amendments include (1) significant changes to the collection of beneficial ownership information and the establishment of a beneficial ownership registry, which requires corporate entities (generally, any corporation, LLC, or other similar entity with 20 or fewer employees and annual gross income of $5 million or less) to report beneficial ownership information to FinCEN (which will be maintained by FinCEN and made available upon request to financial institutions); (2) enhanced whistleblower provisions, which provide that one or more whistleblowers who voluntarily provide original information leading to the successful enforcement of violations of the AML laws in any judicial or administrative action brought by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Attorney General resulting in monetary sanctions exceeding $1 million (including disgorgement and interest but excluding forfeiture, restitution, or compensation to victims) will receive not more than 30% of the monetary sanctions collected and will receive increased protections; (3) increased penalties for violations of the BSA; (4) improvements to existing information sharing provisions that permit financial institutions to share information relating to Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) with foreign branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates (except those located in China, Russia, or certain other jurisdictions) for the purpose of combating illicit finance risks; and (5) expanded duties and powers of FinCEN. Many of the amendments require the Treasury Department and FinCEN to promulgate rules. On September 29, 2022, FinCEN issued final regulations implementing the amendments with respect to beneficial ownership. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations . FCB is also subject to certain laws and regulations designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws include the Truth in Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;), the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The laws and related regulations mandate certain disclosures and regulate the manner in which financial institutions transact business with certain customers. FCB must comply with these consumer protection laws and regulations in its relevant lines of business. 

To promote fairness and transparency for mortgages, credit cards, and other consumer financial products and services, the CFPB is responsible for interpreting and enforcing federal consumer financial laws, as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act, that, among other things, govern the provision of deposit accounts along with mortgage origination and servicing. Some federal consumer financial laws enforced by the CFPB include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, TILA, the Truth in Savings Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (&#8220;RESPA&#8221;), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The CFPB is also authorized to prevent any institution under its authority from engaging in an unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice in connection with consumer financial products and services. 

Under TILA, as implemented by Regulation Z, mortgage lenders are required to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers&#8217; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (1) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (2) current employment status; (3) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (4) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (5) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (6) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (7) the monthly DTI ratio or residual income; and (8) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate QMs, which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ATR requirements. In general, a QM is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a QM the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. 

On December 10, 2020, the CFPB issued two final rules related to QM loans. The first rule replaces the strict 43% DTI threshold for QM loans and provides that, in addition to existing requirements, a loan receives a conclusive presumption that the consumer had the ability to repay if the APR does not exceed the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more as of the date the interest rate is set. Further, a loan receives a rebuttable presumption that the consumer had the ability to repay if the APR exceeds the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more but by less than 2.25 percentage points. The second rule creates a new category of &#8220;seasoned&#8221; QMs for loans that meet certain performance requirements. That rule allows a non-QM loan or a &#8220;rebuttable presumption&#8221; QM loan to receive a safe harbor from ATR liability at the end of a &#8220;seasoning&#8221; period of at least 36 months as a &#8220;seasoned QM&#8221; if it satisfies certain product restrictions, points-and-fees limits, and underwriting requirements, and the loan meets the designated performance and portfolio requirements during the &#8220;seasoning period.&#8221; The mandatory compliance date under the first final rule was July 1, 2021, but subsequently was delayed by the CFPB to October 1, 2022. The second final rule will apply to covered transactions for which institutions receive an application after the compliance date for the first final rule. 

Additionally, the CFPB has the authority to take supervisory and enforcement action against banks and other financial services companies under the agency&#8217;s jurisdiction that fail to comply with federal consumer financial laws. As an IDI with total assets of more than $10 billion, FCB is subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervisory and enforcement authorities. The Dodd-Frank Act also permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and state attorneys general to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the CFPB. As a result of these aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, FCB operates in a stringent consumer compliance environment. The CFPB has been active in bringing enforcement actions against banks and other financial institutions to enforce consumer financial laws. The federal financial regulatory agencies, including the FDIC and states attorneys general, also have become increasingly active in this area with respect to institutions over which they have jurisdiction. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has backup enforcement authority over a depository institution holding company, such as the Parent Company, if the conduct or threatened conduct of such holding company poses a risk to the DIF, although such authority may not be used if the holding company is generally in sound condition and does not pose a foreseeable and material risk to the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on BancShares&#8217; operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors below for a more extensive discussion of this topic. 

Other Regulations applicable to the Parent Company and FCB 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cybersecurity . We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to consumer privacy and data protection. Under privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) and its implementing regulations and guidance, we are limited in our ability to disclose certain non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. Financial institutions, such as us, are required by statute and regulation to notify consumers of their privacy policies and practices and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. In addition, such financial institutions must appropriately safeguard their customers&#8217; nonpublic, personal information. 

Consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach under applicable state laws. The changing privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, including the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, (the &#8220;CCPA&#8221;), which became effective on January 1, 2020, applies to for-profit businesses that conduct business in California and meet certain revenue or data collection thresholds. The CCPA gives consumers the right to request disclosure of information collected about them, and whether that information has been sold or shared with others, the right to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions), the right to opt out of the sale of the consumer&#8217;s personal information, and the right not to be discriminated against for exercising these rights. The CCPA contains several exemptions, including for information that is collected, processed, sold or disclosed pursuant to the GLBA. In November 2020, voters in the State of California approved the California Privacy Rights Act (&#8220;CPRA&#8221;), a ballot measure that amends and supplements the CCPA by creating the California Privacy Protection Agency, a watchdog privacy agency with the authority to issue regulations and guidance and to enforce the CCPA. The CPRA also modifies the CCPA by expanding both the scope of businesses covered by the law and certain rights relating to personal information and its use, collection, and disclosure by covered businesses. The California Privacy Protection Agency has issued proposed rules which would implement the CPRA but has not yet made them final or stated when final rules are likely to be enacted. Similar laws have and may be adopted by other states where BancShares does business. For instance, on October 25, 2022, the New York State Department of Financial Services issued a proposed rule that would, among other things, amend its cybersecurity regulation to create new tiers of regulated entities with tailored regulatory requirements, establish enhanced governance requirements, and require additional cybersecurity controls. 

In addition, multiple other states, Congress and regulators outside the United States are considering similar laws or regulations which could create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal data. For example, on November 23, 2021, the federal financial regulatory agencies published a final rule that will impose upon banking organizations and their service providers new notification requirements for significant cybersecurity incidents (the &#8220;Cybersecurity Rule&#8221;). Specifically, the Cybersecurity Rule requires banking organizations to notify their primary federal regulator as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the discovery of a &#8220;computer-security incident&#8221; that rises to the level of a &#8220;notification incident&#8221; within the meaning attributed to those terms by the Cybersecurity Rule. Banks&#8217; service providers are required under the Cybersecurity Rule to notify any affected bank to or on behalf of which the service provider provides services &#8220;as soon as possible&#8221; after determining that it has experienced an incident that materially disrupts or degrades, or is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, covered services provided to such bank for as much as four hours. The Cybersecurity Rule took effect on April 1, 2022 and banks and their service providers were required to be in compliance with the rule by May 1, 2022. 

Federal banking agencies, including the FDIC, have adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and cybersecurity programs for implementing safeguards under the supervision of the board of directors. These guidelines, along with related regulatory materials, increasingly focus on risk management and processes related to information technology and the use of third parties in the provision of financial services. 

Climate-Related Regulation and Risk Management. In recent years the federal banking agencies have increased their focus on climate-related risks impacting the operations of banks, the communities they serve and the broader financial system. Accordingly, the agencies have begun to enhance their supervisory expectations regarding the climate risk management practices of larger banking organizations, such as BancShares, including by encouraging such banks to: ensure that management of climate-related risk exposures has been incorporated into existing governance structures; evaluate the potential impact of climate-related risks on the bank&#8217;s financial condition, operations and business objectives as part of its strategic planning process; account for the effects of climate change in stress testing scenarios and systemic risk assessments; revise expectations for credit portfolio concentrations based on climate-related factors; consider investments in climate-related initiatives and lending to communities disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change; evaluate the impact of climate change on the bank&#8217;s borrowers and consider possible changes to underwriting criteria to account for climate-related risks to mortgaged properties; incorporate climate-related financial risk into the bank&#8217;s internal reporting, monitoring and escalation processes; and prepare for the transition risks to the bank associated with the adjustment to a low-carbon economy and related changes in laws, regulations, governmental policies, technology, and consumer behavior and expectations. 

On October 21, 2021, the Financial Stability Oversight Council published a report identifying climate-related financial risk as an &#8220;emerging threat&#8221; to financial stability. On December 16, 2021, the OCC issued proposed principles for climate-related financial risk management for national banks with more than $100 billion in total assets. On March 30, 2022 and December 2, 2022, the FDIC and FRB issued their own proposed principles, respectively, for climate risk management by larger banking organizations. The regulators have also indicated that all banks, regardless of their size, may have material exposures to climate-related financial and other risks that require prudent management. The FRB, as the last agency to issue proposed guidance, indicated that it will work with the other two agencies in issuing any final guidance. The proposed principles in the guidance would cover the following areas: strategic planning; governance; policies, procedures, and limits; data, risk measurement and reporting; risk management; and scenario analysis. The proposed guidance would also suggest how climate-related financial risks can be addressed in specific prudential risk areas including liquidity, credit, other financial risks, operational, legal and compliance, and other non-financial risks. If adopted as final guidance, BancShares as a banking organization with $100 billion or more in total assets will be expected to implement the principles under the guidance to demonstrate to the FRB (and the FDIC) that BancShares and FCB are operating in a safe and sound manner. In addition, states in which we conduct business have taken, or are considering taking, similar actions on climate-related financial risks. 

Compensation . Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries, by other financial regulatory agencies. The federal banking regulators have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations take into account risk factors and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. The guidance also provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or other corporate decisions. The guidance further provides that the regulators may pursue enforcement actions against a banking organization if its incentive compensation and related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safe and sound practices. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking regulators and the SEC to issue regulations requiring covered financial institutions to prohibit incentive compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. In October 2022, the SEC adopted final rules implementing the incentive-based compensation recovery (&#8220;clawback&#8221;) provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rules direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. It is anticipated that most registrants will have until late 2023 or early 2024 to adopt and implement or adjust their policies as applicable. 

Other Regulated Subsidiaries 

As noted above, certain subsidiaries of the Parent Company and FCB are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the SEC, FINRA, state regulatory agencies, and other regulatory authorities as &#8220;regulated entities.&#8221; 

FCB&#8217;s insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies. Each of CIT's insurance subsidiaries acquired by FCB in the CIT Merger is also licensed and regulated in the states in which the subsidiaries conduct insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and the solvency standards that must be met and maintained; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. CIT&#8217;s Vermont insurance captive subsidiary (acquired in the CIT Merger) is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with the insurance regulatory authority, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. 

Specialty business operations that were under CIT&#8217;s Commercial Finance Division prior to the CIT Merger, and specifically the Rail, Maritime, and other equipment financing operations, are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where business is conducted. In the United States, equipment financing and leasing operations, including for railcars, ships, and other equipment, are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, operations, maintenance, and mechanical standards promulgated by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Association of American Railroads, the Maritime Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, state agencies regulate some aspects of rail and maritime operations with respect to health and safety matters. 

Available Information ##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

The Parent Company does not have its own separate Internet website. However, on FCB&#8217;s investor relations website ( www.ir.firstcitizens.com ), we make available BancShares&#8217; Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Interested parties may also directly access the SEC&#8217;s website ( www.sec.gov ), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information electronically filed by BancShares. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those websites is not part of this report. 

