 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Except for the new and updated risk factors related to the SVBB Acquisition set forth below, there have been no material changes in the risk factors during 2023 from those reported in our 2022 Form 10-K. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that management believes are material to an investment in us in addition to those listed below, refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors , of our 2022 Form 10-K, and Forward-Looking Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to management or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, the results of our operations or our business. If such risks and uncertainties were to materialize or the likelihoods of the risks were to increase, we could be adversely affected, and the market price of our securities could significantly decline. 

Strategic Risks 

Our recently announced FDIC-assisted acquisition of Silicon Valley Bridge Bank could present additional risks to our business. 

We have historically acquired, and may in the future continue to acquire, the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. The SVBB Acquisition, like other FDIC-assisted transactions, presents general risks inherent in all acquisitions, as well as risks specific to FDIC-assisted transactions. For example, because these acquisitions provide for limited due diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may pose risks not present in more traditional transactions. In addition, the SVBB Acquisition is subject to a customary final settlement with the FDIC, and as of the date of this Form 10-Q, we are still awaiting conclusion of this process with the FDIC. To mitigate certain of those risks, including credit risks of acquired loans, FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC-assistance, including potential loss-sharing. Although loss sharing agreements reduce the credit risks of, and capital required for, FDIC-assisted transactions, these transactions often require additional resources and time to service acquired problem loans, costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the establishment of processes and internal controls to service acquired assets in accordance with applicable FDIC standards. A failure to manage these risks could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

Loans acquired in the SVBB Acquisition may not be covered by the commercial shared loss agreement if the FDIC determines that we have not adequately managed these loans. 

In connection with the SVBB Acquisition, FCB entered into a commercial shared loss agreement with the FDIC pursuant to which the FDIC is obligated to reimburse FCB for (i) 0% of losses on the first $5 billion of covered loans and (ii) 50% of losses in excess of $5 billion on covered loans. In addition, FCB agreed to reimburse the FDIC for 50% of recoveries related to covered loans. The commercial shared loss agreement will remain in effect for five years, and the loss recovery provisions to the FDIC will remain in effect for eight years, each from March 27, 2023 (the &#8220;SVBB Acquisition Date&#8221;). Although the FDIC has agreed to reimburse FCB for a substantial portion of losses on covered loans, the FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan losses if we do not manage covered loans in accordance with the commercial shared loss agreement. In addition, reimbursable losses are based on the book value of the relevant loans as determined by the FDIC as of the effective date of the transaction. The amount that we realize on these loans could differ materially from the carrying value that will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements, based upon the timing and amount of collections on the covered loans in future periods. Any losses we experience on the assets acquired in the SVBB Acquisition that are not covered under the commercial shared loss agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

In addition, in accordance with the commercial shared loss agreement, we may be required to make a &#8220;true-up&#8221; payment to the FDIC, approximately eight years following the SVBB Acquisition Date. The &#8220;true-up&#8221; payment is calculated using a defined formula set forth in the commercial shared loss agreement. 

We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits and may incur unanticipated losses related to the SVBB Acquisition. 

Achieving the anticipated benefits of the SVBB Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate our collective operations in an efficient and effective manner. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, there may be business disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to remove their accounts and move their business to competing financial institution. It is possible that the integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 

Further, we did not acquire any assets from SVB Financial Group nor did we acquire all of its subsidiaries. As a result, we do not have access to all of the employees, contractual relationships, and third party vendors providing administrative and operational support for the legacy Silicon Valley Bank business. Our access to these resources is further limited by SVB Financial Group filing a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on March 17, 2023. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently replace these functions previously provided or facilitated by SVB Financial Group and certain of its subsidiaries, we could face additional disruptions in our operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment and third party vendor costs. 

Any inability to realize the full extent, or any, of the anticipated benefits of the SVBB Acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations and strengthen our reputation among legacy SVB clients following the SVBB Acquisition . 

Following the consummation of the SVBB Acquisition, the size and geographic and operational scope of our business has increased significantly. The SVBB Acquisition substantially increased our asset size from total consolidated assets of approximately $109.30 billion at December 31, 2022 to approximately $214.66 billion at March 31, 2023, increased the breadth and complexity of our business with the addition of new business lines in which we have not previously engaged and expanded our geographic scope to new geographic areas. Further, legacy SVB&#8217;s client were concentrated within the certain industries, including technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. Our future success depends, in part, upon the ability to manage this expanded business while strengthening our reputation among the venture capital and private equity communities, and other participants in the industries that legacy SVB served, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new and expanded operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We may be unsuccessful in this regard or fail to realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the SVBB Acquisition. 

Credit Risks 

Our concentration of loans and leases in certain industries increases the risk for losses and could impair our earnings if these industries experience economic difficulties. 

Prior to the SVBB Acquisition, we had a substantial concentration of loans and leases in the medical and dental industries, as well as the rail business. A significant portion of the loans acquired in the SVBB Acquisition were concentrated in the technology, life science and healthcare sectors, as well as loans to former global private equity and venture capital clients of legacy SVB. Prior to the SVBB Acquisition, we did not have significant exposure to these industries. Although we believe our current loan portfolio is well-diversified, borrowers in certain industries may have a heightened vulnerability to negative economic conditions. For example, statutory or regulatory changes relevant to the medical and dental industries, or economic conditions in the market generally, could negatively impact these borrowers&#8217; businesses and their ability to repay their loans with us. Additionally, smaller practices such as those in the dental industry generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, and generally have a heightened vulnerability to negative economic conditions. Repayment of loans in the portfolios for early-stage and mid-stage privately held companies, including those acquired in the SVBB Acquisition, may depend upon receipt by those borrowers of additional financing from venture capitalists or others, or, in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. In addition, decreases in the amount of equity capital available to early-stage and mid-stage companies, including through a decrease in merger and acquisition activity, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay our loans in these industries. If such events occur, our levels of non-performing assets and charge offs may increase, and we may be required to increase our ACL through additional provisions on our income statement, which would reduce reported net income and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

Due to our substantial concentration in our rail business, if there is a significant downturn in shipping by railcar, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, volatility in the price of, and demand for oil and gas may have negative effects on not only our loan exposures in the exploration and production section, but may also lead to a decreased demand for our railcars. 

Market Risks 

Recent bank failures have created significant market volatility, regulatory uncertainty, and decreased confidence in the U.S. banking system. 

The recent failures of several high-profile banking institutions have caused significant market volatility, regulatory uncertainty, and decreased confidence in the U.S. banking system. These recent bank failures occurred during a period of rapidly rising interest rates which, among other things, has resulted in unrealized losses in longer duration securities and more competition for bank deposits, and may increase the risk of a potential economic recession in the United States. Given the current environment, we may experience more deposit volatility as customers react to adverse events or market speculation involving financial institutions. 

In response to the bank failures, the United States government may adopt a variety of measures and new regulations designed to strengthen capital levels, liquidity standards, and risk management practices and otherwise restore confidence in financial institutions. Any reforms, if adopted, could have a significant impact on banks and BHCs, including us. We may also be subject to any special assessment that the FDIC adopts to recover the loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and such assessment, if significant, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 

Liquidity Risks 

If our current level of balance sheet liquidity were to experience pressure, it could affect our ability to pay deposits and fund our operations. 

Our deposit base represents our primary source of core funding and balance sheet liquidity. We typically have the ability to stimulate core deposit growth through reasonable and effective pricing strategies. However, in circumstances where our ability to generate needed liquidity is impaired, we need access to non-core funding such as borrowings from the FHLB and the Federal Reserve, Federal Funds purchased lines and brokered deposits. In connection with the SVBB Acquisition, we also entered into binding terms and conditions pursuant to which the FDIC is providing a five-year, up to $70 billion line of credit. During the two-year period following the SVBB Acquisition Date, we may draw on the FDIC Credit Facility to support liquidity, including for deposit withdrawal or runoff and to fund the unfunded commercial lending commitments acquired in connection with the SVBB Acquisition. While we maintain access to these non-core funding sources, including the FDIC Credit Facility, some sources are dependent on the availability of collateral as well as the counterparty&#8217;s willingness and ability to lend. Failure to access sources of liquidity may affect our ability to pay deposits and fund our operations. 

Capital Adequacy Risks 

Increases to our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and to meet our obligations. 

In connection with the SVBB Acquisition, as initial payment under the Purchase Agreement, FCB issued a five-year Purchase Money Note of approximately $35.0 billion payable to the FDIC. Our existing debt, together with any future incurrence of additional indebtedness and preferred stock, including under the FDIC Credit Facility, could have consequences that are materially adverse to our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, it could: (i) limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; (ii) restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; (iii) restrict us from paying dividends to our stockholders; (iv) increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; or (v) require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and dividends on the preferred stock, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. Refer to the &#8220;Borrowings&#8221; sections of Item 2. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding our borrowings. 

Financial Reporting Risks 

The SVBB Acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and is based upon a preliminary valuation that involves significant estimates that are subject to change. 

As required by U.S. GAAP, the SVBB Acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and is based upon a preliminary valuation that involves significant estimates that are subject to change. The opening balances of acquired assets and assumed liabilities in connection with the SVBB Acquisition have not been audited and have been recorded at estimated fair value based on information currently available to the Company. In developing these fair value estimates, management was required to make significant estimates involving, among other things, the assigned risk ratings to loans based on credit quality, appraisals and estimated collateral values, estimated expected cash flows and appropriate liquidity and coupon discounts. The loans purchased in connection with the SVBB Acquisition have credit profiles that differ from most banking companies. For example, many of the legacy SVB loans acquired were made to early-stage, privately held companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations. In addition, a significant portion of the loans were comprised of larger loans equal to or greater than $20 million, and collateral for many of the legacy SVB loans in the technology, life science and healthcare industries include intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and not readily salable in the case of default. Furthermore, the receivables from the FDIC for the commercial shared loss agreement involve significant estimates that involve uncertainty. In addition, the core deposit intangibles was valued using the after-tax cost savings method under the income approach. This method estimates the fair value by discounting to present value the favorable funding spread attributable to the core deposit balances over their estimated average remaining life. The valuation considered a dynamic approach to interest rates and alternative cost of funds. The favorable funding spread is calculated as the difference in the alternative cost of funds and the net deposit cost. The estimates used in creating the preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed may change as additional information becomes available, which could lead to changes in the Company&#8217;s fair value estimates. As such, we may experience more adverse outcomes than originally estimated, and the ACL may need to be revised. 

