 Item 1. Business 

General Corporate Overview 

The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) is a savings and loan holding company. Incorporated in 1986, CSC engages, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Schwab or the Company), in wealth management, securities brokerage, banking, asset management, custody, and financial advisory services. At December 31, 2020, Schwab had $6.69 trillion in client assets, 29.6 million active brokerage accounts, 2.1 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 1.5 million banking accounts. 

Principal business subsidiaries of CSC include the following: 

&#8226; Charles Schwab &#38; Co., Inc. (CS&#38;Co), incorporated in 1971, a securities broker-dealer; 

&#8226; TD Ameritrade, Inc., an introducing securities broker-dealer; 

&#8226; TD Ameritrade Clearing, Inc. (TDAC), a securities broker-dealer that provides trade execution and clearing services to TD Ameritrade, Inc.; 

&#8226; Charles Schwab Bank, SSB (CSB), our principal banking entity; and 

&#8226; Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab&#8217;s proprietary mutual funds (Schwab Funds &#174; ) and for Schwab&#8217;s exchange-traded funds (Schwab ETFs &#8482; ). 

Unless otherwise indicated, the terms &#8220;Schwab,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; mean CSC together with its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Schwab provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors, and retirement plan services, as well as other corporate brokerage services, to businesses and their employees. The Advisor Services segment provides custodial, trading, banking, and support services, as well as retirement business services, to independent registered investment advisors (RIAs), independent retirement advisors, and recordkeepers. These services are further described in the segment discussion below. 

Effective October 6, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation (TDA Holding) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively referred to as &#8220;TD Ameritrade&#8221; or &#8220;TDA&#8221;). TD Ameritrade provides securities brokerage services, including trade execution, clearing services, and margin lending, through its broker-dealer subsidiaries; and futures and foreign exchange trade execution services through its futures commission merchant (FCM) and forex dealer member (FDM) subsidiary. The TD Ameritrade acquisition is further described in the business and asset acquisition discussion below. 

Effective January 1, 2021, CSC changed the designation of its corporate headquarters from San Francisco, California to Westlake, Texas. The Company maintains a nationwide presence across a network of branches and operations centers, and our Westlake location provides a centrally located hub for the Company. 

Business Strategy and Competitive Environment 

Schwab was founded on the belief that all Americans deserve access to a better investing experience. Although much has changed in the intervening years, our purpose remains clear &#8211; to champion every client&#8217;s goals with passion and integrity. Guided by this purpose and our vision of creating the most trusted leader in investment services, management has adopted a strategy described as &#8220;Through Clients&#8217; Eyes.&#8221; 

This strategy emphasizes placing clients&#8217; perspectives, needs, and desires at the forefront. Because investing plays a fundamental role in building financial security, we strive to deliver a better investing experience for our clients &#8211; individual investors and the people and institutions who serve them &#8211; by disrupting longstanding industry practices on their behalf and providing superior service. We also aim to offer a broad range of products and solutions to meet client needs with a focus on transparency, value, and trust. In addition, management works to couple Schwab&#8217;s scale and resources with ongoing expense discipline to keep costs low and ensure that products and solutions are affordable as well as responsive to client needs. In 

- 1 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

combination, these are the key elements of our &#8220;no trade-offs&#8221; approach to serving investors. We believe that following this strategy is the best way to maximize our market valuation and stockholder returns over time. 

Management estimates that investable wealth in the United States (U.S.) (consisting of assets in defined contribution, retail wealth management and brokerage, and registered investment advisor channels, along with bank deposits) currently exceeds $50 trillion, which means the Company&#8217;s $6.69 trillion in client assets leaves substantial opportunity for growth. Our strategy is based on the principle that developing trusted relationships will translate into more assets from both new and existing clients, ultimately driving more revenue, and along with expense discipline and thoughtful capital management, will generate earnings growth and build long-term stockholder value. 

Within Investor Services, our competition in serving individual investors spans brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In the Advisor Services arena, we compete with institutional custodians, traditional and discount brokers, banks, and trust companies. 

Across both segments, our key competitive advantages are: 

&#8226; Scale and Size of the Business &#8211; As one of the largest investment services firms in the U.S., we are able to spread operating costs and amortize new investments over a large base of clients, and harness the resources to evolve capabilities to meet client needs. 

&#8226; Operating Efficiency &#8211; Coupled with scale, our operating efficiency and sharing of infrastructure across different businesses creates a cost advantage that enables us to competitively price products and services while profitably serving clients of various sizes across multiple channels. 

&#8226; Operating Structure &#8211; Providing bank and asset management services to broker-dealer clients helps serve a wider array of needs, thereby deepening relationships, enhancing the stability of client assets, and enabling diversified revenue streams. 

&#8226; Brand and Corporate Reputation &#8211; In an industry dependent on trust, Schwab&#8217;s reputation and brand across multiple constituents enable us to attract clients and employees while credibly introducing new products to the market. 

&#8226; Service Culture &#8211; Delivering a great client experience earns the trust and loyalty of clients and increases the likelihood that those clients will refer others. 

&#8226; Willingness to Disrupt &#8211; Management&#8217;s willingness to challenge the status quo, including our own business practices, to benefit clients fosters innovation and continuous improvement, which helps to attract more clients and assets. 

Business and Asset Acquisitions 

Acquisition of TD Ameritrade 

Effective October 6, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of TD Ameritrade. In exchange for each share of TD Ameritrade common stock, TD Ameritrade stockholders received 1.0837 shares of CSC common stock, except for The Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD Bank) and its affiliates which received a portion in nonvoting common stock. In connection with the transaction, Schwab issued approximately 586 million common shares to TD Ameritrade stockholders consisting of approximately 509 million shares of common stock and 77 million shares of nonvoting common stock. Upon completion of the acquisition, TDA Holding became a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC. 

TDA provides services to individual retail investors and to RIAs predominantly through the Internet, a national branch network, and relationships with RIAs. At the time of acquisition, TD Ameritrade had approximately 10,000 employees. TD Ameritrade&#8217;s sources of net revenues primarily consist of trading revenue, bank deposit account fees, net interest revenue, and asset management and administration fees. 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s trading revenue includes commissions earned on trades of certain securities and derivatives, as well as order flow revenue. 

&#8226; Bank deposit account fees are earned through an insured deposit account agreement with TD Bank USA, National Association and TD Bank, National Association (together, the TD Depository Institutions), as well as bank deposit account sweep agreements with other third-party depository institutions, whereby uninvested cash held by certain brokerage clients is swept into Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-insured (up to specified limits) money market deposit accounts at the TD Depository Institutions and other third-party depository institutions. See discussion below of the IDA agreement that became effective at the acquisition date. 

- 2 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s net interest revenue is generated primarily through margin lending, securities lending activity, as well as segregated and operating cash and investments. Interest-bearing liabilities primarily consist of interest-bearing payables to brokerage clients and long-term debt. 

&#8226; TDA&#8217;s asset management and administration fee revenue includes revenues earned on client assets invested in money market funds, other mutual funds, and certain investment programs. TDA&#8217;s asset management and administration fees also include referral and asset-based program fees on its client assets managed by independent RIAs utilizing TDA&#8217;s trading and investing platforms. 

Concurrently with the execution of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 24, 2019, as amended (the Merger Agreement), CSC entered into a stockholder agreement with TD Bank (the Stockholder Agreement), a registration rights agreement with TD Bank and Charles R. Schwab, and an amended and restated insured deposit account agreement with the TD Depository Institutions (the IDA agreement). 

Effective upon the merger, Todd M. Ricketts, Brian M. Levitt, and Bharat B. Masrani were elected to CSC&#8217;s Board of Directors. Mr. Ricketts was designated by TD Ameritrade pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and Messrs. Levitt and Masrani were designated by TD Bank pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and the Stockholder Agreement between Schwab and TD Bank. 

Integration Overview 

We anticipate the acquisition of TD Ameritrade will significantly increase our scale to help support the Company&#8217;s ongoing efforts to enhance the client experience, provide deeper resources for individual investors as well as RIAs, and continue to improve our operating efficiency. At the time of closing, TDA had approximately $1.6 trillion in client assets and approximately 14.5 million brokerage accounts. We anticipate combining the respective strengths of Schwab and TD Ameritrade will enable the Company to invest in enhanced client experience capabilities and further our financial success to the benefit of clients, employees, and stockholders. 

Throughout the integration, the Company plans to generally adopt Schwab platforms and systems, though we&#8217;re committed to leveraging material advantages in TD Ameritrade&#8217;s platforms when appropriate, as exemplified by our intention to retain TD Ameritrade&#8217;s thinkorswim &#174; and thinkpipes &#174; trading platforms, education, and tools into our offerings for retail and RIA clients. We also plan to retain TD Ameritrade Institutional&#8217;s customizable portfolio rebalancing solution iRebal &#174; as part of our offering for independent advisor clients. Additional technology solutions continue to be evaluated for consideration as part of the combined platform. 

Our integration of TD Ameritrade&#8217;s operations is expected to occur over 18 to 36 months from the date of acquisition, though planning for integration has been underway since the acquisition was announced on November 25, 2019. In October 2020, the Company began efforts to reduce overlapping or redundant roles across the two firms and to rationalize branch locations of CS&#38;Co and TD Ameritrade, Inc. These and other integration activities are expected to continue throughout the integration process. CS&#38;Co, as well as TD Ameritrade, Inc. and TDAC, will continue to operate as separate broker-dealers to serve their respective clients while integration work continues. 

IDA Agreement 

In accordance with the IDA agreement, which became effective October 6, 2020, cash held in eligible brokerage client accounts is swept off-balance sheet to money market deposit accounts at the TD Depository Institutions. Schwab provides marketing, recordkeeping and support services to the TD Depository Institutions with respect to the money market deposit accounts for which Schwab receives an aggregate monthly fee, determined by reference to certain yields, less a service fee on client cash deposits held at the TD Depository Institutions, FDIC deposit assessments, and interest on deposits paid to clients. Under the IDA agreement, the service fee on client cash deposits held at the TD Depository Institutions was reduced, relative to TD Ameritrade&#8217;s agreement prior to acquisition, by 40%, from 25 basis points to 15 basis points for the life of the agreement. Under TDA&#8217;s prior insured deposit account agreement with the TD Depository Institutions, TDA had floors in place which enabled it to carve-out up to $20 billion of floating-rate investments from the applicable service fee during specified low-rate environments. Pursuant to the IDA agreement, the 15 basis point service fee now applies across all designated fixed and floating IDA balances. 

Pursuant to the IDA agreement, Schwab will be required to move all uninsured IDA balances out of the IDA sweep program on June 30, 2021. The IDA agreement also provides that starting July 1, 2021, Schwab will have the option to migrate up to $10 billion of IDA balances every 12 months to Schwab&#8217;s balance sheet, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. The 

- 3 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Company&#8217;s ability to migrate these balances out of the IDA sweep program is dependent on certain binding limitations specified in the IDA agreement, including the requirement that Schwab can only move IDA balances designated as floating-rate obligations. The amount of Schwab&#8217;s initial potential transfer will also be affected by the net growth or decline in the IDA balance from immediately prior to the October 6, 2020 effective date of the IDA agreement through June 30, 2021. In addition, Schwab also must maintain a minimum $50 billion IDA balance through June 2031, and at least 80% of the IDA balances must be designated as fixed-rate obligations through June 2026. 

See &#8220;Part II &#8211; Item 8 &#8211; Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8211; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; (Item 8) &#8211; Note 3 for more information on the TD Ameritrade acquisition. See also &#8220;Part II &#8211; Item 7 &#8211; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7) &#8211; Capital Management&#8221; and Item 8 &#8211; Note 15 for additional information on the IDA agreement. 

Acquisition of Assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company 

On May 26, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of the assets of USAA&#8217;s Investment Management Company (USAA-IMCO) for $1.6 billion in cash. Along with the asset purchase agreement, the companies entered into a long-term referral agreement that makes Schwab the exclusive provider of wealth management and investment brokerage services for USAA members. The USAA-IMCO acquisition has added scale to the Company&#8217;s operations through the addition of 1.1 million brokerage and managed portfolio accounts with approximately $80 billion in client assets at the acquisition date. The transaction also provides Schwab the opportunity to further expand our client base by serving USAA&#8217;s members through the long-term referral agreement. See Item 8 &#8211; Note 3 for more information on the USAA-IMCO acquisition. 

Other Acquisitions 

During 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of technology and intellectual property of Motif, a financial technology company. The Motif assets help us build on our existing capabilities and help accelerate our development of thematic and direct index investing for Schwab&#8217;s retail investors and RIA clients. Also during 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of Wasmer, Schroeder &#38; Company, LLC (Wasmer Schroeder), which adds established strategies and new separately managed account offerings to our fixed income lineup. 

Sources of Net Revenues 

Our largest sources of net revenues are net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, trading revenue, and bank deposit account fees. These revenue streams are supported by the combination of bank, broker-dealer, and asset management operating subsidiaries, including those of TD Ameritrade, each of which brings specific capabilities that enable us to provide clients with the products and services they are seeking. 

Net interest revenue is the difference between interest generated on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources. The majority of net interest revenue is derived from a portion of client cash balances awaiting investment and held on Schwab&#8217;s balance sheet as part of clients&#8217; overall relationship with the Company. Interest-earning assets are primarily comprised of high-quality fixed income securities, margin loans, and bank loans. 

The majority of asset management and administration fees are earned from proprietary money market mutual funds, proprietary and third-party mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and fee-based advisory solutions. 

Trading revenue includes commissions earned for executing trades for clients in certain individual equities, options, futures, fixed income securities, and certain third-party mutual funds and ETFs; order flow revenue; and principal transaction revenue earned primarily from actions to support client trading in fixed income securities. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019, Schwab eliminated online trading commissions for U.S. and Canadian-listed stocks and ETFs, as well as the base charge on options. 

Bank deposit account fees are primarily recognized pursuant to the Company&#8217;s IDA agreement, as well as sweep agreements with other third-party depository institutions. Under the IDA agreement, eligible brokerage client accounts are swept off-balance sheet to money market deposit accounts at the TD Depository Institutions. Schwab provides marketing, recordkeeping, and support services to the TD Depository Institutions with respect to the money market deposit accounts for which Schwab receives an aggregate monthly fee, determined by reference to certain yields, less a service fee on client cash deposits held at the TD Depository Institutions, FDIC deposit assessments, and interest on deposits paid to clients. 

- 4 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Products and Services 

We offer a broad range of products through intuitive end-to-end solutions, including robust digital capabilities, to address our clients&#8217; varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include the following: 

&#8226; Brokerage &#8211; an array of full-feature brokerage accounts with equity and fixed income trading, margin lending, options trading, futures and forex trading, and cash management capabilities including third-party certificates of deposit; 

&#8226; Mutual funds &#8211; third-party mutual funds through the Mutual Fund Marketplace &#174; , including non-transaction fee mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource &#174; service, which also includes proprietary mutual funds, plus mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers; 

&#8226; Exchange-traded funds &#8211; an extensive offering of ETFs, including both proprietary and third-party ETFs; 

&#8226; Advice solutions &#8211; managed portfolios of both proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs, separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, specialized planning, and full-time portfolio management; 

&#8226; Banking &#8211; checking and savings accounts, first lien residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and pledged asset lines (PALs); and 

&#8226; Trust &#8211; trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services. 

These investing services are made available through two business segments &#8211; Investor Services and Advisor Services. Schwab&#8217;s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the reportable segments, based on their respective levels of client assets and activity. Revenue is attributable to a reportable segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Item 8 &#8211; Note 2. 

Investor Services 

Charles Schwab initially founded the Company over 40 years ago to provide individual investors with access to the financial markets at a reasonable cost. The Company has been expanding offerings over time in response to client needs, aiming to provide a compelling and often disruptive solution in the marketplace. As products and services have evolved over the years, the Investor Services segment has expanded and now includes the Retail Investor, Retirement Plan Services, Mutual Fund Clearing Services, and Off-Platform Sales business units. 

Through the Retail Investor business unit, we offer individual investors a multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephone, and branch capabilities. We provide personalized solutions at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business with us. Financial Consultants (FCs) in Schwab&#8217;s branches and regional telephone service centers focus on building and sustaining client relationships. We have the ability to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. We believe that this ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an individually tailored approach &#8211; ranging from occasional consultations, to an ongoing relationship with an FC or participation in one of our advisory solutions, which include referral to an independent RIA in the Schwab Advisor Network &#174; , or for clients of TDA, an RIA in the AdvisorDirect &#174; program &#8211; is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented or limited offerings of other firms. 

Our service delivery model provides quick and efficient access to a broad lineup of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, clients that trade more actively can use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities &#8211; including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists, and integrated product offerings. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with a range of investment and banking products. 

Schwab seeks to educate and assist clients in reaching their financial goals. Educational tools include workshops, webcasts, podcasts, interactive courses, and online information about investing, from which Schwab does not earn revenue. We also introduced virtual events in 2020 to engage with retail and institutional clients amidst an unprecedented climate. Additionally, we provide various online research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings &#174; is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings International &#174; , an international ranking methodology, covers stocks of approximately 4,000 foreign companies. In 2020, we launched Schwab Plan &#8482; , a free digital financial plan designed to help investors establish and stay on track toward their personalized retirement goals. Schwab Plan is available to all Schwab clients with no 

- 5 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

minimum asset requirement, expanding access to retirement planning to the millions of retail investors that Schwab serves . Also in 2020, we launched Schwab Stock Slices &#8482; , a service which enables investors to own any of America&#8217;s leading companies from the S&#38;P 500 &#174; for as little as $5 each, even if their shares cost more. Clients can purchase a single stock slice or up to 10 different stock slices at once, commission-free through our online channels. 

Clients may seek specific investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. Schwab provides clients seeking advice with personalized solutions. Our approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab&#8217;s delivery channels. 

Schwab Private Client &#8482; features a personal advice relationship with a designated Private Client Advisor, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution. 

For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, Schwab offers several alternatives. We provide investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed Portfolios &#8482; and the Windhaven Investment Management &#174; Strategies, or equity securities and ETFs through the ThomasPartners Investment Management &#174; Strategies. During 2020, we completed our acquisition of Wasmer Schroeder, which adds established strategies and new separately managed account offerings to our existing fixed income lineup. We also refer investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account &#8482; program. Schwab Intelligent Portfolios &#174; , available since 2015, are for clients who are looking to have their assets professionally managed via a fully automated online investment advisory service. In late 2016, we introduced a hybrid advisory service, now called Schwab Intelligent Portfolios Premium &#174; , to offer our clients an advisory service which combines unlimited guidance provided by a C ERTIFIED F INANCIAL P LANNER &#8482; and our robo-advice technology to make financial and investment planning more accessible to investors. In early 2020, we launched Schwab Intelligent Income &#174; , a low-cost solution designed to offer a simple, modern way to generate income from existing investment portfolios. Finally, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to RIAs in the Schwab Advisor Network. These RIAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions. 

Clients of TD Ameritrade also have access to a suite of programs designed to meet their specific investment advisory needs. Through TDA&#8217;s Essential Portfolios, clients are offered a low-cost automated online investment advisory service with access to goal-oriented ETF portfolios. TDA&#8217;s Selective Portfolios offers a broader range of goal-oriented portfolios made up of mutual funds and ETFs, through a combination of automated technology and professional insights. TDA&#8217;s Personalized Portfolios offers clients tailored portfolios, supported by a team of investment professionals. Finally, TDA&#8217;s AdvisorDirect &#174; referral program provides clients with an introduction to an independent RIA that can assist in developing customized investment strategies around their unique goals. 

To meet the specific needs of clients who actively trade, Schwab offers integrated web- and software-based trading platforms, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock and futures research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management and decision support tools, and dedicated personal support. TD Ameritrade offers clients its award-winning thinkorswim &#174; trading platform, education, and tools, which the Company intends to integrate into the Company&#8217;s ongoing offerings. 

For U.S. clients wishing to invest in foreign equities, we offer a suite of global investing capabilities, including online access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, Schwab serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. Schwab provides multi-lingual services to non-English-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices, web-based and telephonic services. 

We also offer equity compensation plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans, stock options, restricted stock, performance shares, and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking, and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. 

Our Retirement Plan Services business unit offers a bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides retirement plan sponsors with extensive investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Retirement plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic 

- 6 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. In addition to an open architecture investment platform, we offer access to low cost index mutual funds and ETFs. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of bundled offerings of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts, profit sharing, and defined benefit plans. 

Lastly, the Mutual Fund Clearing Services business unit provides open-end mutual fund trading, settlement, and related transactional services to banks, brokerage firms, and trust companies, and the Off-Platform Sales business unit offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and collective trust funds (CTFs) outside the Company and not on the Schwab platform. They are included within the Investor Services segment given their leveraging of the products and services offered to individual investors. 

Advisor Services 

More than thirty years ago, Schwab supported a small group of entrepreneurial advisors who challenged the industry by creating independent firms. Through the Advisor Services segment, Schwab has become one of the largest providers of custodial, trading, banking, and support services to RIAs and their clients. We also provide retirement business services to independent retirement advisors and recordkeepers. Management believes that we can maintain our market position primarily through the efforts of our sales, support, technology, and business consulting service teams, which are dedicated to helping RIAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, we utilize technology to provide RIAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients&#8217; assets easily and efficiently. Advisor Services sponsors and hosts a variety of national, regional, local, and virtual events designed to help RIAs of all sizes and complexities identify and implement better ways to expand and efficiently manage their practices. 

RIAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for RIAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including viewing and managing client account information and accessing news and market information. The website provides account servicing capabilities for RIAs, including account opening, money movement, transfer of assets, trading, checking status, and communicating with our service team. The site provides multi-year archiving of statements, trade confirms, and tax reports, along with document search capabilities. We also provide access to integrations with third-party platforms, which support a variety of advisor needs including client relationship management, portfolio management systems, trade order management, and financial planning. In early 2019, we released Schwab Advisor Portfolio Connect &#174; , a simplified portfolio management solution that is available free of charge to advisors to manage Schwab accounts. It delivers core capabilities and features through an intuitive modern experience, without the need to download and reconcile data. 

The Advisor Services website also provides interactive tools, educational content, and thought leadership for advisors turning independent. We offer a variety of services to help RIAs grow and manage their practices, including business, technology, and operations consulting on a range of topics critical to an RIA&#8217;s success, as well as an annual RIA benchmarking study to help firms understand key business metrics relative to peers. We also offer an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through a robust prospect consulting offer. To support them throughout their transition, we offer access to business start-up and transition consultants, technology engineers, and dedicated service teams. 

Schwab provides extensive educational materials, programs, and events to RIAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. We conduct industry research on an ongoing basis, and hold a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to RIAs, including business strategies and best practices. Schwab sponsors and hosts the annual IMPACT &#174; conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, RIAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights, as well as a multitude of smaller events across the country each year. 

RIAs and their clients have access to our broad range of products and services, including individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, fixed income products, managed accounts, cash products, bank lending, and trust services. By functioning as the custodian, Schwab earns revenue associated with the underlying client assets, predominantly through net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. In this capacity, we do not charge the RIA or end client a custody fee. 

- 7 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

For RIAs on the TD Ameritrade Institutional platform, TD Ameritrade&#8217;s thinkpipes &#174; trading platform offers a multitude of features, including real-time charting and efficient trading and allocation. The Company intends to integrate thinkpipes into its ongoing offerings. The Company also plans to retain TD Ameritrade Institutional&#8217;s customizable portfolio rebalancing solution iRebal &#174; as part of its offering for RIA clients. 

The Advisor Services segment also includes the Retirement Business Services and Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services business units. Retirement Business Services provides trust, custody, and retirement business services to independent retirement plan advisors and independent recordkeepers. Retirement plan assets are held at Charles Schwab Trust Bank (Trust Bank). The Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with our investment, technology, trust, and custodial services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans. 

Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services serves plan sponsors, advisors, and independent recordkeepers seeking a brokerage-based account to hold retirement plan assets. Retirement plans held at Schwab are either self-trusteed or trusteed by a separate, independent trustee. Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account &#174; , and the Company Retirement Account, both of which are self-directed brokerage-based solutions designed to hold the assets of company-sponsored retirement plans. 

Regulation 

As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, Schwab is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). We are also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which we operate. These regulations affect our business operations and impose capital, client protection, and market conduct requirements. 

Holding Company and Bank Regulation 

CSC is a savings and loan holding company and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve. CSC&#8217;s three depository institution subsidiaries are CSB, CSC&#8217;s principal depository institution subsidiary, Charles Schwab Premier Bank, SSB (CSPB), and Trust Bank. On March 20, 2020, CSB and CSPB converted from federal savings associations headquartered in Henderson, Nevada to Texas-chartered savings banks headquartered in Westlake, Texas. Trust Bank is a Nevada-chartered savings bank headquartered in Henderson, Nevada. CSB and CSPB are currently regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve, the Texas Department of Savings and Mortgage Lending, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the FDIC. Trust Bank is currently regulated, supervised and examined by the Nevada Financial Institutions Division, CFPB, and the FDIC. CSC, CSB, CSPB, and Trust Bank are also subject to regulation and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws. 

This regulatory framework is designed to protect depositors and consumers, the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, and the stability of the banking system as a whole. This framework affects the activities and investments of CSC and its subsidiaries and gives the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies. Below is a discussion of significant regulations. 

Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Framework 

Banking organizations are subject to the regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the FDIC. In addition to minimum risk-based capital requirements, banking organizations must hold additional capital, referred to as buffers, to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC jointly adopted a final rule which became effective on December 31, 2019 (interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules) that revised the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking organizations with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The rules established four risk-based categories for determining the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to these institutions based on their total assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. CSC is subject to the requirements under Category III based on its total consolidated assets of between $250 billion and less than $700 billion and having less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity. As of December 31, 2020, CSC had total consolidated assets of $549 billion. 

- 8 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Capital requirements for Category III banking organizations include the generally applicable risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratio requirements (the &#8220;standardized approach&#8221; framework), the minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio, the countercyclical capital buffer, which is currently 0%, and for large bank holding companies, the stress capital buffer. As discussed below, starting in 2022, CSC, as a large savings and loan holding company will also become subject to the stress capital buffer requirement. Under the revised capital requirements, Category III organizations are not subject to the &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; regulatory capital framework and are permitted to opt out of including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in their regulatory capital calculations. CSC made this opt out election, and commencing with the first quarter of 2020, now excludes AOCI from its regulatory capital. 

As revised by the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules, Category III banking organizations with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding, which includes CSC, and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to a reduced liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) rule requiring them to hold high quality liquid assets (HQLA) in an amount equal to at least 85% of their projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated on each business day. If an institution&#8217;s average weighted short-term wholesale funding over the four most recent quarters is $75 billion or more, it will be required to comply with the full LCR rule and hold HQLA in an amount equal to 100% of its projected 30-day net cash outflows and will also be subject to daily (instead of monthly) liquidity reporting. We anticipate that we will exceed the $75 billion threshold as of the quarter ended March 31, 2021, and will become subject to daily liquidity reporting on July 1, 2021, and the full LCR rule on October 1, 2021. 

In October 2020, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC jointly adopted a final net stable funding ratio (NSFR) rule to strengthen the resilience of large bank and savings and loan holding companies by requiring them to maintain a minimum level of stable funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the holding company&#8217;s assets, commitments, and derivative exposures over a one-year time horizon. The requirement is expressed as a ratio of a banking entity&#8217;s available stable funding (ASF) to its required stable funding (RSF). Category III banking organizations with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding, which includes CSC, and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets will be required to maintain ASF in an amount at least equal to 85% of its RSF on an ongoing, daily basis. The final NSFR rule becomes effective on July 1, 2021, and banking entities subject to the rule will be required to publicly disclose their quarterly NSFRs on a semi-annual basis beginning with the first and second quarters of 2023. While we will be subject to the reduced NSFR when the rule goes into effect on July 1, 2021, we anticipate that we will become subject to the full NSFR requirement on October 1, 2021. 

Capital Stress Testing 

In the final enhanced prudential standards rules adopted concurrently in October 2019 with the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules, the Federal Reserve revised the capital stress testing regime applicable to savings and loan holding companies and state-chartered member banks. Under the new Federal Reserve capital stress testing rules, savings and loan holding companies that are Category III banking organizations are required to conduct biennial company-run stress tests in even-numbered years beginning in 2020. In 2020, CSC conducted company-run stress tests, reported the results of its stress testing to the Federal Reserve, and voluntarily published a summary of its stress test results. 

In its enhanced prudential standards rules, the Federal Reserve also made Category III savings and loan holding companies subject to an annual supervisory stress testing requirement in which the Federal Reserve conducts its own stress testing analysis to evaluate the ability of a holding company to absorb losses in specified economic and financial conditions over a nine-quarter planning horizon using such analytical techniques as the agency determines are appropriate. This supervisory stress testing requirement will go into effect for CSC beginning with the 2022 stress testing cycle. To implement this requirement, the Federal Reserve also expanded the reporting requirements applicable to savings and loan holding companies commencing in the second quarter of 2020. 

In January 2021, the Federal Reserve adopted a new rule making savings and loan holding companies with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, including CSC, subject to an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, which requires submission of an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. The rule also imposes a stress capital buffer requirement, floored at 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets, that will replace CSC&#8217;s current 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. The capital plan requirement will become effective for CSC with the 2022 CCAR cycle, and CSC&#8217;s initial stress capital buffer requirement will be based on its 2022 CCAR stress testing results. 

- 9 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Additional Enhanced Prudential Standards 

In addition to the revisions to the capital stress testing regime discussed above, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards rules will also extend the applicability of certain additional enhanced prudential standards to large savings and loan holding companies, with the specific requirements tailored based on the same four-category framework utilized in the interagency regulatory capital and liquidity rules. These additional enhanced prudential standards, which have been applicable to large U.S. bank holding companies under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), include: risk management and risk committee requirements; liquidity risk management, stress testing, and buffer requirements; and single counterparty credit limits. CSC will be required to comply with the new risk management and risk committee requirements, as well as the new liquidity risk-management, stress testing, and buffer requirements commencing on January 1, 2021. The new single counterparty credit limits will go into effect for CSC on January 1, 2022. 

Insured Depository Institution Resolution Plans 

The FDIC requires insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure (resolution plans or so-called &#8220;living wills&#8221;) under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Under this requirement, CSB has been required to file with the FDIC a periodic resolution plan demonstrating how the bank could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able to: ensure that the bank&#8217;s depositors receive access to their deposits within one business day; maximize the net present value of the bank&#8217;s assets when disposed of; and minimize losses incurred by the bank&#8217;s creditors. In April 2019, the FDIC imposed a moratorium on resolution plan submissions. More recently, in January 2021, the FDIC announced that it will resume requiring resolution plan submissions for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more. The FDIC also indicated that it would provide at least 12 months&#8217; notice before firms must submit new resolution plans. 

As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to any separate holding company resolution plan requirement. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority for a wide range of federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority over depository institutions with $10 billion or more in consolidated total assets. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

The FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC uses a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that, for large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets, uses a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution&#8217;s regulatory ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. 

Brokered Deposits 

In December 2020, the FDIC adopted amendments to its brokered deposits rule to establish a new framework for determining whether deposits made through arrangements between third parties and depository institutions constitute brokered deposits and more specifically to clarify the circumstances under which broker-dealers that place deposits with depository institutions through brokerage sweep arrangements such as CS&#38;Co and TDAC will qualify for the &#8220;primary purpose exception&#8221; from the definition of a deposit broker. Under the new framework, the FDIC establishes a new &#8220;25 percent&#8221; business relationship designated exception where a broker-dealer or other third party may qualify for the primary purpose exception by filing a notice with the FDIC indicating that less than 25 percent of its customer assets under administration for a particular business line are placed at depository institutions. The FDIC&#8217;s brokered deposit rule amendments becomes effective on April 1, 2021. CSC anticipates that under the new framework funds swept by CS&#38;Co to CSB and Schwab&#8217;s other depository institution subsidiaries will continue to qualify for the primary purpose exception, and that funds swept by TDAC under its bank sweep program will become eligible for the primary purpose exception. 

- 10 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) requires the primary federal bank regulatory agency for each of Schwab&#8217;s depository institution subsidiaries to assess the subsidiary&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings (&#8220;outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;needs to improve,&#8221; or &#8220;substantial noncompliance&#8221;). The failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions or opening branch offices. 

Source of Strength 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve&#8217;s long-held position that a depository institution holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary depository institutions, the so-called &#8220;source of strength doctrine.&#8221; In effect, the holding company may be compelled to commit resources to support the subsidiary in the event the subsidiary is in financial distress. 

Broker-Dealer, FCM, FDM, and Investment Advisor Regulation 

Our principal broker-dealer subsidiaries, CS&#38;Co, TD Ameritrade, Inc., and TDAC, are each registered as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. CS&#38;Co, TD Ameritrade, Inc., CSIM, and certain of our other subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. CS&#38;Co is also registered as an FCM with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and TD Ameritrade Futures &#38; Forex LLC (TDAFF) is registered as an FCM and FDM with the CFTC. 

Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs. Our principal broker-dealers are each a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). In addition, CS&#38;Co is a member of Nasdaq Stock Market, Cboe EDGX and MEMX and TDAC is a member of NYSE Arca, Nasdaq Stock Market, Cboe EDGX and MEMX. In addition to the SEC, the primary regulators of our principal broker-dealers are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is the primary regulator for CS&#38;Co&#8217;s and TDAFF&#8217;s futures and commodities trading activities and TDAFF&#8217;s forex trading activities. 

The principal purpose of regulating these entities is the protection of clients and securities markets. The regulations cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients&#8217; funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. 

Our principal broker-dealer entities are subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer and it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. If CS&#38;Co fails to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure could constitute a default by CSC of certain debt covenants under its credit agreement. 

The Uniform Net Capital Rule prohibits broker-dealers from paying cash dividends, making unsecured advances or loans or repaying subordinated loans if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement. 

In addition to net capital requirements, as a self-clearing broker-dealer, CS&#38;Co, and as a clearing broker-dealer, TDAC, are subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearing houses, such as the Depository Trust &#38; Clearing Corporation and Options Clearing Corporation, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients&#8217; trading activity and market volatility. 

As a result of our operations in countries outside the U.S., we are also subject to rules and regulations issued by certain foreign authorities, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom, the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong, and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) in Singapore. 

- 11 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

Financial Services Regulation 

Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 

CSC and its subsidiaries that conduct financial services activities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires financial institutions to develop and implement programs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with these regulations. The BSA and USA PATRIOT Act include a variety of monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as currency transaction reporting and suspicious activity reporting), as well as identity verification and client due diligence requirements which are intended to detect, report and/or prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition, CSC and various subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 

Human Capital 

We believe that hiring people who share our corporate purpose of helping clients achieve their financial goals is an essential element of executing our &#8216;Through Clients&#8217; Eyes&#8217; strategy, and we seek to attract, retain, and motivate the talent Schwab needs to successfully serve our clients and grow our business. As of December 31, 2020, Schwab had full-time, part-time, and temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis, that represented the equivalent of approximately 32,000 full-time employees. 

Schwab offers a compensation package that rewards both employee and company performance. The package encompasses an array of compensation components in addition to base pay including performance-based incentive pay, equity awards, recognition awards, and a range of health and wellness benefits. We also offer benefits and resources designed to help our employees achieve their financial goals, including a 401(k) plan, an employee stock purchase plan, financial planning consultations, and disability and life insurance options. In addition, Schwab offers programs to help with employee career growth including development and leadership programs as well as reimbursement for qualified business-related education and training. We also encourage and empower employees to volunteer in the communities where we live and work, offering paid time off for every employee to volunteer in his or her community. 

We know that through workplace diversity, we gain a wider range of perspectives and experiences, which supports our strategy and helps us better serve our clients. We focus on attracting a diversity of talent by maintaining a strong employer brand and expanding where and how we meet prospective employees. We recruit from underrepresented communities through targeted campus recruiting, scholarship programs, and partnerships with professional organizations. We also offer coaching programs for college students from underrepresented communities to help develop career skills and learn about internship and career opportunities at Schwab. For Schwab employees, we support a number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) which are employee-driven and provide support, leadership development opportunities, and connection to our diverse marketplace. Our ERGs are made up of employees who share characteristics or life experiences and are committed to enhancing diversity and inclusion at Schwab. Additionally, our leaders are explicitly responsible for creating an environment where all people can do their best work, and for fostering the development of high-performance teams that recognize the value of diverse perspectives, skills and backgrounds. We regularly request feedback from our employees through surveys. 

Available Information 

Schwab files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC filings are available to the public over the internet on the SEC&#8217;s website at https://www.sec.gov . 

On our website, https://www.aboutschwab.com , we post the following filings after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the website also includes the Dodd-Frank Act stress test results, our regulatory capital disclosures based on Basel III, and our quarterly average LCR. 

All such filings are available free of charge either on our website or by request via email ( investor.relations@schwab.com ), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105). 

- 12 - 

THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION 

