 Item 1: Legal Proceedings 

In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the Company establishes an accrued liability for litigation and threatened litigation actions and proceedings when those actions present loss contingencies, which are both probable and estimable. In actions for which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, the Company determines whether it can estimate a loss or range of possible loss. To determine whether a possible loss is estimable, the Company reviews and evaluates its material litigation on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. This review may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on substantive or dispositive motions, and settlement discussions. 

Wintrust Mortgage Matter 

On October 17, 2018, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California against Wintrust Mortgage alleging violation of California wage payment statutes on behalf of herself and all other hourly, non-exempt employees of Wintrust Mortgage in California. Wintrust Mortgage received service of the complaint on November 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the complaint on February 25, 2019. On November 1, 2019, the plaintiff's counsel filed a letter with the California Department of Labor advising that it was initiating an action under California's Private Attorney General Act statute based on the same alleged violations. In November 2019, the parties reached a settlement agreement. The parties executed a settlement agreement and on February 26, 2020, plaintiff moved the court for approval. A hearing on the motion to approve settlement was originally set for June 16, 2020, but the court continued the motion to September 8, 2020. On September 8, 2020, the court requested the parties make certain changes to the settlement agreement that were immaterial to the parties&#8217; settlement terms. The parties revised the settlement agreement consistent with the court's recommendations and submitted the revised settlement agreement to the court for its approval. On January 27, 2021, the court entered its preliminary approval of the settlement. After no class members opted out or objected to the settlement, the court issued its final approval of the settlement on June 17, 2021 and on June 18, 2021, Wintrust Mortgage tendered the settlement amount to the class claims administrator. The Company had reserved an amount for this settlement that is immaterial to its results of operations or financial condition. 

Northbrook Bank Matter 

On October 17, 2018, two individual plaintiffs filed suit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against Northbrook Bank and Tamer Moumen on behalf of themselves and a class of approximately 42 investors in a hedge fund run by defendant Moumen. Plaintiffs allege that defendant Moumen ran a fraudulent Ponzi scheme and ran those funds through deposit accounts at Northbrook Bank. They allege the bank was negligent in failing to close the deposit accounts and that it intentionally aided and abetted defendant Moumen in the alleged fraud. They contend that Northbrook Bank is liable for losses in excess of $6 million. Northbrook Bank filed its motion to dismiss the complaint on January 15, 2019, which the court granted on March 5, 2019. On April 3, 2019, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint based on similar allegations. Northbrook Bank again moved to dismiss. The court heard this motion on July 17, 2019 and once again dismissed the complaint without prejudice. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on August 12, 2019. Northbrook moved to dismiss the second amended complaint. On November 6, 2019, the court dismissed the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs filed an appeal on December 2, 2019. After this appeal was fully briefed, on September 4, 2020, the Appellate Court for the First District of Illinois remanded the case back to the trial court for lack of appellate jurisdiction. The Appellate Court determined it did not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the trial court did not dismiss the suit against defendant Moumen and plaintiffs did not obtain the trial court's consent for immediate appeal of the dismissal order against Northbrook Bank. On October 29, 2020, the plaintiffs cured the jurisdictional issue identified by the Appellate Court by dismissing defendant Moumen. Plaintiffs filed their renewed appeal on November 4, 2020. This matter was fully briefed and on July 30, 2021, the Appellate Court issued an opinion affirming the trial court&#8217;s dismissal of the compliant with prejudice. 

Other Matters 

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Based on information currently available and upon consultation with counsel, management believes that the eventual outcome of any pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings described above, including our ordinary course litigation, will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations or financial condition for a particular period. 

Table of Contents 

