 Item 1: Legal Proceedings 

In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the Company establishes an accrued liability for litigation and threatened litigation actions and proceedings when those actions present loss contingencies, which are both probable and estimable. In actions for which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, the Company determines whether it can estimate a loss or range of possible loss. To determine whether a possible loss is estimable, the Company reviews and evaluates its material litigation on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. This review may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on substantive or dispositive motions, and settlement discussions. 

Lehman Holdings Matter 

On January 15, 2015, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. ("Lehman Holdings") sent a demand letter asserting that Wintrust Mortgage must indemnify it for losses arising from loans sold by Wintrust Mortgage to Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB under a Loan Purchase Agreement between Wintrust Mortgage, as successor to SGB Corporation, and Lehman Brothers Bank. The demand was the precursor for triggering the alternative dispute resolution process mandated by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Lehman Holdings triggered the mandatory alternative dispute resolution process on October 16, 2015. On February 3, 2016, Lehman Holdings filed a complaint against Wintrust Mortgage and 150 other entities from which it had purchased loans in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Lehman Holdings filed an amended complaint against Wintrust Mortgage on December 29, 2016. On October 2, 2018, Lehman Holdings asked the court for permission to amend its complaints against Wintrust Mortgage and the other defendants to add loans allegedly purchased from the defendants and sold to various RMBS trusts. The court granted this request and allowed Lehman Holdings to assert the additional claims against existing defendants as a supplemental complaint. Lehman Holdings filed its supplemental complaint against Wintrust Mortgage on December 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the supplemental complaint on May 13, 2019. On October 5, 2020, Wintrust Mortgage and Lehman Holdings executed a settlement agreement to resolve the dispute for an amount that is immaterial to the Company's results of operations or financial condition. On October 15, 2020, the court entered an order dismissing the entire suit against Wintrust Mortgage with prejudice. 

Wintrust Mortgage Matter 

On October 17, 2018, a former Wintrust Mortgage employee filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California against Wintrust Mortgage alleging violation of California wage payment statutes on behalf of herself and all other hourly, non-exempt employees of Wintrust Mortgage in California. Wintrust Mortgage received service of the complaint on November 4, 2018. Wintrust Mortgage filed its response to the complaint on February 25, 2019. On November 1, 2019, the plaintiff's counsel filed a letter with the California Department of Labor advising that it was initiating an action under California's Private Attorney General Act statute based on the same alleged violations. In November 2019, the parties reached a settlement agreement. The parties executed a settlement agreement and on February 26, 2020, plaintiff moved the court for approval. A hearing on the motion to approve settlement was originally set for June 16, 2020, but the court continued the motion to September 8, 2020. On September 8, 2020, the court requested the parties make certain changes to the settlement agreement that were immaterial to the parties' settlement terms. The parties revised the settlement agreement consistent with the court's recommendations and submitted the revised settlement agreement to the court for its approval. On January 27, 2021, the court entered its preliminary approval of the settlement. Notices of settlement were timely sent to class members who will have until May 2, 2021 to opt out of the settlement. The Company has reserved an amount for this proposed settlement that is immaterial to its results of operations or financial condition. 

Table of Contents 

Northbrook Bank Matter 

On October 17, 2018, two individual plaintiffs filed suit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against Northbrook Bank and Tamer Moumen on behalf of themselves and a class of approximately 42 investors in a hedge fund run by defendant Moumen. Plaintiffs allege that defendant Moumen ran a fraudulent Ponzi scheme and ran those funds through deposit accounts at Northbrook Bank. They allege the bank was negligent in failing to close the deposit accounts and that it intentionally aided and abetted defendant Moumen in the alleged fraud. They contend that Northbrook Bank is liable for losses in excess of $6 million. Northbrook Bank filed its motion to dismiss the complaint on January 15, 2019, which the court granted on March 5, 2019. On April 3, 2019, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint based on similar allegations. Northbrook Bank again moved to dismiss. The court heard this motion on July 17, 2019 and once again dismissed the complaint without prejudice. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on August 12, 2019. Northbrook moved to dismiss the second amended complaint. On November 6, 2019, the court dismissed the complaint with prejudice. Plaintiffs filed an appeal on December 2, 2019. After this appeal was fully briefed, on September 4, 2020, the Appellate Court for the First District of Illinois remanded the case back to the trial court for lack of appellate jurisdiction. The Appellate Court determined it did not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the trial court did not dismiss the suit against defendant Moumen and plaintiffs did not obtain the trial court's consent for immediate appeal of the dismissal order against Northbrook Bank. On October 29, 2020, the plaintiffs cured the jurisdictional issue identified by the Appellate Court by dismissing defendant Moumen. Plaintiffs filed their renewed appeal on November 4, 2020. This matter has been fully briefed and is awaiting decision by the Appellate Court. Northbrook Bank believes the plaintiffs' allegations are legally and factually meritless and otherwise lacks sufficient information to estimate the amount of any potential liability. 

Wintrust Bank Matter 

On April 30, 2020, A.D. Sims LLC on behalf of itself and other similarly situated plaintiffs filed suit in the federal district court for the Northern District of Illinois against Wintrust Financial Corporation, Wintrust Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., Cross River Bank, and an additional 4,971 named and unnamed defendants. Plaintiffs allege the defendant financial institutions failed to pay agent fees on loans issued by them under the federal CARES Act's Paycheck Protection Program ("PPP") in violation of applicable law. Plaintiffs allege the collective damages could exceed $3.8 billion and have asked the court to require the defendants to establish, on a pro rata basis, a fund that could be used to pay agent fees due. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed Wintrust Financial Corporation as a defendant in this suit on June 29, 2020. On September 28, 2020, the class defendants filed an omnibus motion to dismiss the lawsuit. This motion was fully briefed on November 23, 2020. On December 27, 2020, legislation amending the CARES Act was enacted. The new legislation expressly stated that lenders do not owe fees to agents for assisting borrowers to obtain PPP loans absent a fee agreement between the lender and the agent. In light of this legislation, plaintiff asked the court to dismiss the case. On January 22, 2021, the district court entered plaintiff's voluntary dismissal order. 

Other Matters 

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries, from time to time, are subject to pending and threatened legal action and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Based on information currently available and upon consultation with counsel, management believes that the eventual outcome of any pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings described above, including our ordinary course litigation, will not have a material adverse effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations or financial condition for a particular period. 

Table of Contents 

