 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Financial Instrument Risk Information 

The Company is naturally exposed to various interest rate and foreign currency risks. As a result, the Company enters into derivative transactions to manage certain of these exposures that arise in the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative positions or trading. The Company manages the relationships of the types and amounts of its funding sources to its Receivable and Lease portfolios in an effort to diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate exposure. The Company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations related to financing in currencies other than the functional currencies. The Company has entered into agreements related to the management of these foreign currency transaction risks.

Interest Rate Risk 

Quarterly, the Company uses a combination of cash flow models to assess the sensitivity of its financial instruments with interest rate exposure to changes in market interest rates. The models calculate the effect of adjusting interest rates as follows. Cash flows for Receivables are discounted at the current prevailing rate for each Receivable portfolio. Cash flows for unsecured borrowings are discounted at the applicable benchmark yield curve plus market credit spreads for similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for securitized borrowings are discounted at the swap yield curve plus a market credit spread for similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for interest rate swaps are projected and discounted using forward rates from the swap yield curve at the repricing dates. The net loss in these financial instruments&#8217; fair values, which would be caused by increasing the interest rates by 10 percent from the market rates at November 1, 2020 and November 3, 2019, would have been approximately $126.7 million and $87.9 million, respectively.

Foreign Currency Risk 

The Company&#8217;s policy is to hedge the foreign currency risk if the currency of the borrowings does not match the currency of the Receivable portfolio. As a result, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all other foreign currencies would not have a material effect on the Company&#8217;s cash flows.

