Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Organization The Company’s equipment operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to John Deere dealers and distributors. The equipment operations manufacture and distribute a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; and a broad range of equipment for construction, roadbuilding, and forestry. The Company’s financial services primarily provide credit services, which mainly finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and trade receivables purchased from the equipment operations. In addition, financial services offers extended equipment warranties. The information in the following discussion is presented in a format that includes information grouped as consolidated, equipment operations, and financial services. The Company also views its operations as consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada. The Company’s operating segments consist of agriculture and turf, construction and forestry, and financial services. Trends and Economic Conditions Industry sales of agricultural machinery in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to be down about 5 percent for fiscal year 2020. Industry sales in Europe are forecast to be about the same in 2020. In South America, industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to be approximately the same as 2019 levels. Asian sales are forecast to be about the same in 2020. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be about the same in 2020. The Company’s agriculture and turf segment sales decreased 4 percent in the first quarter and are forecast to decrease about 5 to 10 percent for fiscal year 2020. Construction industry sales in North America for 2020 are expected to decline 5 to 10 percent. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be about 5 to 10 percent lower. The Company’s construction and forestry segment sales decreased 10 percent in the first quarter, and are forecast to decrease about 10 to 15 percent in 2020 reflecting slowing construction activity as well as efforts to bring down field inventory levels. Net income attributable to Deere & Company for the Company’s financial services operations is forecast to be approximately $600 million in 2020. Items of concern include trade agreements, the uncertainty of the effectiveness of governmental actions in respect to monetary and fiscal policies, the impact of sovereign debt, Eurozone and Argentine issues, capital market disruptions, changes in demand and pricing for used equipment, potential effects of epidemics, and geopolitical events. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and volatility in the price of many commodities could also impact the Company’s results. The Company’s results reflect early signs of stabilization in the U.S. farm sector. The Company is encouraged by the broad use of precision technologies and believes it is well positioned to strengthen its leadership position in this area. For the quarter, construction sector activity slowed leading to lower sales and profit for the construction and forestry division. Actions to reduce factory production and lower inventories in response to construction equipment market conditions also negatively affected results. Additionally, the quarter included costs of a voluntary employeeseparation program, which is intended to improve the Company’s flexibility. The Company is also proceeding with a series of measures to create a more focused organizational structure. These steps are leading to improved efficiencies and helping the Company focus its resources and investments on areas that have the most impact on performance. Operating profit decreased due to higher losses on lease residual values, an increased provision for credit losses, and higher selling, administrative and general expenses, partially offset by income earned on a higher average portfolio. The average balance of receivables and leases financed was 7 percent higher in the first three months of 2020, compared with the same period last year. Interest expense decreased 4 percent in the first quarter of 2020 primarily as a result of lower average borrowing rates, partially offset by higher average borrowings. The cost of sales ratio improved due to price realization and lower production costs, partially offset by costs of the voluntary employee-separation program. Research and development expenses and selling, administrative and general expenses increased primarily as a result of voluntary employee-separation costs. Other operating expenses increased primarily as a result of higher depreciation of equipment on operating leases and a curtailment in certain OPEB plans (see Note 8). Market Conditions and Outlook Net income attributable to Deere & Company is forecast to be in a range of $2,700 million to $3,100 million. • Agriculture and Turf. The Company’s worldwide sales of agriculture and turf equipment are forecast to decline 5 to 10 percent for fiscal year 2020, including a negative currency translation effect of about 1 percent. Industry sales of agricultural equipment in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to be down about 5 percent, driven by lower demand for large equipment in Canada. Full year industry sales in Europe are forecast to be about the same as are South American industry sales of tractors and combines. Asian sales are forecast to be about the same as the prior year. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be about the same as 2019. • Construction and Forestry. The Company’s worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are anticipated to be down 10 to 15 percent for 2020, with foreign currency rates having an unfavorable translation effect of about 1 percent. The outlook reflects slowing construction activity as well as efforts to bring down field inventory levels. Industry construction equipment sales in North America are expected to decline by 5 to 10 percent for the year. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be down 5 to 10 percent due to weaker demand in North America and Russia. • Financial Services. Fiscal year 2020 results are expected to benefit from lower losses on lease residual values and income earned from a higher average portfolio, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses and prior year favorable discrete adjustments to the provision for income taxes. Net income attributable to Deere & Company for the financial services operations is expected to be approximately $600 million. Safe Harbor Statement Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements under “Overview,” “Market Conditions and Outlook,” and other forward-looking statements herein that relate to future events, expectations, and trends involve factors that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. The Company’s agricultural equipment business is subject to a number of uncertainties including the factors that affect farmers’ confidence and financial condition. These factors include demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions, soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, trade restrictions and tariffs (e.g., China), global trade agreements (e.g., the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement), the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms), the growth and sustainability of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of governments, changes in government farm programs and policies, international reaction to s uch programs, changes in and effects of crop insurance programs, changes in environmental regulations and their impact on farming practices, animal diseases (e.g., African swine fever) and their effects on poultry, beef and pork consumption and prices and on livestock feed demand, and crop pests and diseases. 43 Factors affecting the outlook for the Company’s turf and utility equipment include consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, labor supply, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts and supply, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs. Consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts, interest rates and the levels of public and non-residential construction are important to sales and results of the Company’s construction and forestry equipment. Prices for pulp, paper, lumber and structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment. All of the Company’s businesses and its results are affected by general economic conditions in the global markets and industries in which the Company operates; customer confidence in general economic conditions; government spending and taxing; foreign currency exchange rates and their volatility, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; interest rates (including the availability of IBOR reference rates); inflation and deflation rates; changes in weather patterns; the political and social stability of the global markets in which the Company operates; the effects of, or response to, terrorism and security threats; wars and other conflicts; natural disasters; and the spread of major epidemics (including Coronavirus) and responses to epidemics such as government-imposed travel restrictions and extended shut down of businesses. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions, changes in the Company’s credit ratings and any failure to comply with financial covenants in credit agreements could impact access to funding and funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Financial market conditions could also negatively impact customer access to capital for purchases of the Company’s products and customer confidence and purchase decisions, borrowing and repayment practices, and the number and size of customer loan delinquencies and defaults. A debt crisis,in Europe or elsewhere, could negatively impact currencies, global financial markets, social and political stability, funding sources and costs, asset and obligation values, customers, suppliers, demand for equipment, and Company operations and results. The Company’s investment management activities could be impaired by changes in the equity, bond and other financial markets, which would negatively affect earnings. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and elsewhere. The economic conditions and outlook could be further adversely affected by (i) uncertainty regarding any new or modified trade arrangements between the United Kingdom and the European Union and/or other countries, (ii) the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or (iii) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the Eurozone could cease to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the United Kingdom or the European Union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. Any of these developments could affect our businesses, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Additional factors that could materially affect the Company’s operations, access to capital, expenses and results include changes in, uncertainty surrounding and the impact of governmental trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies, including financial regulatory reform and its effects on the consumer finance industry, derivatives, funding costs and other areas, and governmental programs, policies, tariffs and sanctions in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of certain industries or sectors; retaliatory actions to such changes in trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies; actions by central banks; actions by financial and securities regulators; actions by environmental, health and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions, carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions, noise and the effects of climate change; changes to GPS radio frequency bands or their permitted uses; changes in labor and immigration regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates, estimates, laws and regulations and Company actions related thereto; changes to and compliance with privacy regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign laws when expanding to new markets and otherwise; and actions by other regulatory bodies. Other factors that could materially affect results include production, design and technological innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; the loss of or challenges to intellectual property rights whether through theft, infringement, counterfeiting or otherwise; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components and whole goods; delays or disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or the loss of liquidity by suppliers; disruptions of infrastructures that support communications, operations or distribution; the failure ofsuppliers or the Company to comply with laws, regulations and Company policy pertaining to 44 employment, human rights, health, safety, the environment, anti-corruption, privacy and data protection and other ethical business practices; events that damage theCompany’s reputation or brand; significant investigations, claims, lawsuits or other legal proceedings; start-up of new plants and products; the success of new product initiatives; changes in customer product preferences and sales mix; gaps or limitations in rural broadband coverage, capacity and speed needed to support technology solutions; oil and energy prices, supplies and volatility; the availability and cost of freight; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the Company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; changes in demand and pricing for used equipment and resulting impacts on lease residual values; labor relations and contracts; changes in the ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; greater than anticipated transaction costs; the integration of new businesses; the failure or delay in closing or realizing anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; the implementation of organizational changes; the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits of cost reduction, productivity, or efficiency efforts; difficulties related to the conversion and implementation of enterprise resource planning systems; security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, technology failures and other disruptions to the Company’s and suppliers’ information technology infrastructure; changes in Company declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases; changes in the level and funding of employee retirement benefits; changes in market values of investment assets, compensation, retirement, discount and mortality rates which impact retirement benefit costs; and significant changes in health care costs. The liquidity and ongoing profitability of John Deere Capital Corporation and other credit subsidiaries depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations, costs, and purchases ofthe Company’s products. If general economic conditions deteriorate or capital markets become more volatile, funding could be unavailable or insufficient. Additionally, customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact writeoffs and provisions for credit losses. The Company’s outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its outlook, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information concerning the Company and its businesses, including factors that could materially affect the Company’s financial results, is included in the Company’s other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q). Critical Accounting Policies See the Company’s critical accounting policies discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to these policies. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate, the Company’s consolidated totals, equipment operations, and financial services operations. Consolidated Negative cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first three months of 2020 were $508 million. This resulted primarily from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, a seasonal increase in inventories, and a change in accrued income taxes payable / receivable, which were partially offset by net income adjusted for noncash provisions and a decrease in receivables related to sales. Cash inflows frominvesting activities were $1,026 million in the first three months of this year, primarily due to collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired by $1,270 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $271 million. Negative cash flows from financing activities were $763 million in the first three months of 2020 primarily due to a decrease in borrowings of $422 million, dividends paid of $242 million, and repurchases of common stock of $114 million, partially offset by proceeds from issuance of common stock of $53 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options). Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $246 million during the first three months of this year. Negative cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first three months of 2019 were $1,651 million. This resulted primarily from a seasonal increase in inventories, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and an increase in receivables related to sales, which were partially offs et by net income adjusted for non- 45 cash provisions and a change in accrued income taxes payable / receivable. Cash inflows from investing activities were $969 million in the first three months of 2019, primarily due to collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired by $1,293 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $297 million. Positive cash flows from financing activities were $403 million in the first three months of 2019 primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $746 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $51 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options), partially offset by dividends paid of $220 million and repurchases of common stock of $144 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $292 million during the first three months of 2019. The Company has access to most global markets at a reasonable cost and expects to have sufficient sources of global funding and liquidity to meet its funding needs. Sources of liquidity for the Company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization of retail notes (both public and private markets), and committed and uncommitted bank lines of credit. The Company’s commercial paper outstanding at February 2, 2020, November 3, 2019, and January 27, 2019 was $2,149 million, $2,698 million, and $3,760 million, respectively, while the total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities position was $4,211 million, $4,438 million, and $4,149 million, respectively. The total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries, was $2,572 million, $2,731 million, and $2,076 million at February 2, 2020, November 3, 2019, and January 27, 2019, respectively. Lines of Credit. The Company also has access to bank lines of credit with various banks throughout the world. Worldwide lines of credit totaled $8,484 million at February 2, 2020, $5,692 million of which were unused. For the purpose of computing unused credit lines, commercial paper and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were primarily considered to constitute utilization. Included in the total credit lines at February 2, 2020 was a 364-day credit facility agreement of $2,800 million, expiring in fiscal April 2020. In addition, total credit lines included long-term credit facility agreements of $2,500 million, expiring in April 2023, and $2,500 million, expiring in April 2024. These credit agreements require John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation) to maintain its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding securitization indebtedness, to capital base (total subordinated debt and stockholder’s equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at not more than 11 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit agreements also require the equipment operations to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of 65 percent or less at the end of each fiscal quarter. Under this provision, the Company’s excess equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at February 2, 2020 was $13,729 million. Alternatively under this provision, the equipment operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $25,497 million at February 2, 2020. All of these requirements of the credit agreement have been met during the periods included in the financial statements. Debt Ratings. To access public debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign shortterm and long-term credit ratings to the Company’s securities as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors. A security rating is not a recommendation by the rating agency to buy, sell, or hold Company securities. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw Company ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs, including costs of derivative transactions, and reduced access to debt capital markets. The senior long-term and short-term debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to unsecured Company debt securities by the rating agencies engaged by the Company are as follows:Trade accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to independent dealers. Trade receivables increased $130 million during the first three months of 2020, primarily due to a seasonal increase. These receivables decreased $137 million, compared to a year ago, primarily due to lower shipment volumes and foreign currency translation. The ratios of worldwide trade accounts and notes receivable to the last 12 months’ net sales were 16 percent at February 2, 2020, compared to 15 percent at November 3, 2019 and 16 percent at January 27, 2019. Agriculture and turf trade receivables decreased $69 million and construction and forestry trade receivables decreased $68 million, compared to a year ago. The percentage of total worldwide trade receivables outst anding for 46 periods exceeding 12 months was 3 percent at February 2, 2020, 3 percent at November 3, 2019, and 1 percent at January 27, 2019. Deere & Company stockholders’ equity was $11,926 million at February 2, 2020, compared with $11,413 million at November 3, 2019 and $11,328 million at January 27, 2019. The increase of $513 million during the first three months of 2020 resulted primarily from net income attributable to Deere & Company of $517 million, a change in the retirement benefits adjustment of $230 million, a change in the cumulative translation adjustment of $43 million, and an increase in common stock of $33 million, partially offset by dividends declared of $239 million and an increase in treasury stock of $75 million. Equipment Operations The Company’s equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external financing sources. Cash used for operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first three months of 2020 was $380 million. This resulted primarily from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, a seasonal increase in inventories, and a change in accrued income taxes payable / receivable. Partially offsetting these operating cash outflows were cash inflows from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and a decrease in trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $313 million in the first three months of 2020. Cash used for operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first three months of 2019 was $1,434 million. This resulted primarily from a seasonal increase in inventories, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in accrued income taxes payable / receivable. Partially offsetting these operating cash outflows were cash inflows from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and a decrease in trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $521 million in the first three months of 2019. Trade receivables held by the equipment operations decreased $367 million during the first three months of 2020 and decreased $62 million from a year ago. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. See the previous consolidated discussion of trade receivables. Inventories increased by $507 million during the first three months, primarily due to a seasonal increase. Inventories decreased $920 million, compared to a year ago, primarily due to lower production volumes and the effect of foreign currency translation. A majority of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.The ratios of inventories on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis (see Note 13), which approximates current cost, to the last 12 months’ cost of sales were 31 percent at February 2, 2020, compared to 29 percent at November 3, 2019 and 35 percent at January 27, 2019. Total interest-bearing debt of the equipment operations was $6,556 million at February 2, 2020, compared with $6,446 million at November 3, 2019 and $6,273 million at January 27, 2019. The ratios of debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and stockholders’ equity) were 35 percent, 36 percent, and 36 percent at February 2, 2020, November 3, 2019, and January 27, 2019, respectively. The Company may from time to time seek to retire portions of its outstanding debt securities through cash repurchases or exchanges for other securities, in open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will be subject to and depend on prevailing market conditions, the company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. Property and equipment cash expenditures for the equipment operations in the first three months of 2020 were $271 million, compared with $297 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2020 are estimated to be approximately $1,100 million. In October 2019, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Unimil, a privately held Brazilian company in the aftermarket service parts business for sugarcane harvesters. The expected cash purchase price is R$375 million (or approximately US$90 million based on the exchange rate at the end of the fiscal quarter). The Company expects to fund the acquisition and the transaction expenses with current cash. The transaction requires customary regulatory approval and is expected to close within six months. 47 Financial Services The financial services operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of commercial paper, term debt, securitization of retail notes, equity capital, and borrowings from Deere & Company. During the first three months of 2020, the cash provided by operating and investing activities was used for financing activities. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $446 million in the first three months of 2020. Cash provided by investing activities totaled $857 million in the first three months of 2020 primarily due to the collection of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired by $1,244 million, partially offset by an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $382 million. Cash used for financing activities totaled $1,232 million, resulting primarily from a decrease in borrowings from Deere & Company of $572 million, a decrease in external borrowings of $526 million, and dividends paid to Deere & Company of $125 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $67 million in the first three months of 2020. During the first three months of 2019, the cash provided by operating and investing activities was used for financing activities. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $972 million in the first three months of 2019. Cash provided by investing activities totaled $283 million in the first three months of 2019 primarily due to the collection of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired by $1,303 million, partially offset by an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $1,021 million. Cash used for financing activities totaled $1,025 million, resulting primarily from a decrease in borrowings from Deere & Company of $1,526 million and dividends paid to Deere & Company of $200 million, partially offset by an increase in external borrowings of $709 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $229 million in the first three months of 2019. Receivables and leases held by the financial services operations consist of retail notes originated in connection with retail sales of new and used equipment by dealers of John Deere products, retail notes from non-Deere equipment customers, trade receivables, wholesale notes, revolving charge accounts, credit enhanced international export financing generally involving John Deere products, sales-type and direct financing leases, and operating leases. Total receivables and leases decreased $1,378 million during the first quarter of 2020 and increased $2,617 million in the past 12 months. Acquisition volumes of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and leases were 6 percent higher in the first three months of 2020, compared with the same period last year, as volumes of retail notes and operating leases were higher, while volumes of sales-type and direct financing leases and revolving charge accounts were lower. The amount of total trade receivables and wholesale notes increased compared to November 3, 2019 and decreased compared to January 27, 2019. Total external interest-bearing debt of the financial services operations was $38,343 million at February 2, 2020, compared with $38,888 million at November 3, 2019 and $36,784 million at January 27, 2019. Total external borrowings have generally changed corresponding with the level of receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in payables owed to Deere & Company, and the change in investment from Deere & Company. The financial services operations’ ratio of interest-bearing debt to stockholder’s equity was 7.8 to 1 at February 2, 2020, compared with 8.0 to 1 at November 3, 2019 and 7.4 to 1 at January 27, 2019. Capital Corporation has a revolving credit agreement to utilize bank conduit facilities to securitize retail notes (see Note 12). During November 2019, the agreement was renewed with a total capacity, or “financing limit,” of $3,500 million of secured financings at any time. After a two-year revolving period, unless the banks andCapital Corporation agree to renew, Capital Corporation would liquidate the secured borrowings over time as payments on the retail notes are collected. At February 2, 2020, $1,935 million of secured short-term borrowings were outstanding under the agreement. In the first three months of 2020, the financial services operations issued $760 million and retired $664 million of retail note securitization borrowings. In addition, during the first three months of 2020, the financial services operations issued $1,535 million and retired $1,568 million of long-term borrowings, which were primarily mediumterm notes. Dividends The Company’s Board of Directors at its meeting on February 26, 2020 declared a quarterly dividend of $.76per share payable May 8, 2020, to stockholders of record on March 31, 2020