 Item 1. Business 

Regions Financial Corporation is a FHC headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama operating in the South, Midwest and Texas. The terms "Regions," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries, when appropriate. Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, trust services, merger and acquisition advisory services, and other specialty financing. At December 31, 2019 , Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $126.2 billion , total consolidated deposits of approximately $97.5 billion and total consolidated stockholders&#8217; equity of approximately $16.3 billion . 

Regions is a Delaware corporation and on July 1, 2004, became the successor by merger to Union Planters Corporation and the former Regions Financial Corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667. 

Banking Operations 

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2019 , Regions operated 2,028 ATMs and 1,428 total branch outlets across the South, Midwest and Texas. 

The following chart depicts the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations. 

##TABLE_START &#160; 

Branches 

Florida 

Tennessee 

Alabama 

Mississippi 

Georgia 

Louisiana 

Arkansas 

Texas 

Missouri 

Indiana 

Illinois 

South Carolina 

Kentucky 

Iowa 

North Carolina 

Total 

1,428 

##TABLE_END

Other Financial Services Operations 

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries: 

Regions Equipment Finance Corporation and Regions Commercial Equipment Finance, LLC, each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, provide equipment financing products focusing on commercial clients. 

Regions Investment Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, offers investments and insurance products to Regions Bank customers, provided by licensed insurance agents. In addition, Regions Bank and Regions Investment Services, Inc. also maintain an agreement with Cetera Investment Services, LLC to offer securities, insurance and advisory services to Regions Bank customers through dually-employed financial advisors. 

Regions Securities LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, serves as a broker-dealer to commercial clients and acts in an advisory capacity to merger and acquisition transactions. Additionally, BlackArch Partners LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions and is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. BlackArch Partners LLC and its subsidiaries offer merger and acquisition services to its institutional clients and commercial entities. 

Regions Investment Management, Inc. serves as the investment adviser to Regions Wealth Management division and trades in stocks and bonds for trust clients. Highland Associates, Inc. is an institutional investment firm providing investment counsel and consulting services to not-for-profit healthcare entities and mission-based organizations. Both Regions Investment Management, Inc. and Highland Associates, Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Regions Bank. 

Regions Affordable Housing LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank headquartered in Great Neck, New York, and engages in low income housing tax credit corporate fund syndication and asset management. 

Supervision and Regulation 

We are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC&#8217;s DIF and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. These descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Overview 

We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a BHC and have elected to be treated as an FHC under the BHC Act. As such, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. Generally, the BHC Act provides for &#8220;umbrella&#8221; regulation of FHCs by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act also requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a BHC, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary. 

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Its operations are generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department and the bank regulators are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. State and federal laws and regulations govern the activities in which Regions Bank engages, including the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Regions Bank is also affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it implements monetary policy. As a Federal Reserve System member bank, Regions Bank is required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in an amount equal to 6 percent of its capital stock and surplus. Member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Regions Bank, receive a floating dividend rate tied to 10-year U.S. Treasuries, with the maximum dividend rate capped at 6 percent. 

Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Some of Regions&#8217; non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, such as the SEC and FINRA in the case of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Regions Securities LLC and BlackArch Securities LLC. 

We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Our common stock and depository shares representing our outstanding preferred stock are each listed on the NYSE. Consequently, we are also subject to the NYSE&#8217;s rules for listed companies. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve and the other Federal bank regulators finalized rules that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards to BHCs and depository institutions per the EGRRCPA amendments (the &#8220;Tailoring Rules&#8221;). The Tailoring Rules assign each U.S. BHC with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as well as its bank subsidiaries, to one of four categories based on its size and five other risk-based indicators: (1) cross-jurisdictional activity, (2) wSTWF, (3) non-bank assets, (4) off-balance sheet exposure, and (5) status as a U.S. G-SIB. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, Regions (and, pursuant to the Tailoring Rules, its depository institution subsidiary, Regions Bank) is subject to Category IV standards, which apply to banking organizations with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets that do not meet any of the thresholds specified for Categories I through III. 

Firms subject to Category IV standards will generally be subject to the same capital and liquidity requirements as firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, but are, among other things, subject to certain enhanced prudential standards and also required to monitor and report certain risk-based indicators. Accordingly, under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms are, among other things, (1) not subject to LCR requirements (or, in certain cases, subject to reduced requirements), (2) no longer subject to company-run capital stress testing requirements, (3) subject to supervisory capital stress testing on a biennial instead of annual basis, (4) subject to requirements to develop and maintain a capital plan on an annual basis and (5) subject to certain liquidity risk management and risk committee requirements. A chart summarizing key elements of the capital, liquidity and enhanced prudential standards requirements applicable to Regions under the Tailoring Rules is included immediately below, and elements of the Tailoring Rules are discussed in further detail throughout this section. 

In addition, Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the final rule adopted by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC in July 2019 relating to simplifications of the capital rules applicable to non-advanced approaches banking organizations. These rules will be effective for the Company on April 1, 2020, and provide for simplified capital requirements relating to the threshold deductions for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that a banking organization could not realize through net operating loss carry backs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as the inclusion of minority interests in regulatory capital. 

##TABLE_START Application under Tailoring Rules of Certain Enhanced Prudential Standards, Capital and Liquidity Requirements to Regions 1 

&#160; 

Tailoring Rules (including Assignment to Category IV) 

Previously Applicable Rules 

CAPITAL 

Stress Testing: Company-Run (DFAST) 

&#251; 

&#252; 

(Annual) 

Stress Testing: Supervisory 

&#252; 

(Two-Year Cycle) 

&#252; 

(Annual) 

CCAR 

&#252; 

(Two-Year Cycle) 

&#252; 

(Annual) 

Annual Capital Plan Submission 

&#252; 

&#252; 

Advanced Approaches 

&#251; 

&#251; 

Opt-Out of AOCI Capital Impact 

&#252; 

&#252; 

Capital Rules Simplification 

&#252; 

(As a non-advanced approaches banking organization) 

&#252; 

(As a non-advanced approaches banking organization) 

Generally Applicable Leverage Ratio 

&#252; 

&#252; 

LIQUIDITY 

LCR 

&#251; 

&#252; 

(Modified) 

NSFR (Proposed) 2 

&#251; 

(Expected) 

&#252; 

(Modified) 

Liquidity Stress Tests 

&#252; 

(Quarterly) 

&#252; 

(Monthly) 

Liquidity Risk Management 

&#252; 

(Tailored) 

&#252; 

Liquidity Buffer 

&#252; 

&#252; 

FR 2052a Reporting 

&#252; 

(Monthly) 

&#252; 

(Monthly) 

CERTAIN OTHER ENHANCED PRUDENTIAL STANDARDS 

Risk Committee 

&#252; 

&#252; 

Risk Management Framework and Related Requirements 

&#252; 

&#252; 

##TABLE_END

1 The Tailoring Rules do not amend the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, but the Federal Reserve indicated that it expects to release a future proposal to do so, to incorporate the risk-based categories in the final rules as well as to further tailor the capital planning requirements applicable to Category IV firms. 

2 The NSFR has not been adopted, but the applicability of any finalized NSFR is expected to follow the framework for applying the LCR. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by EGRRCPA, certain BHCs are required to submit resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and FDIC providing for the company&#8217;s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial 

distress or failure. Regions submitted its most recent resolution plan to these agencies in December 2017. However, in connection with the release of the Tailoring Rules, the Federal Reserve and FDIC finalized rules in October 2019 which, among other things, adjust the review cycles and applicability of the agencies&#8217; resolution planning requirements. Under these new rules, Category IV firms such as Regions are no longer required to submit resolution plans. In April 2019, the FDIC released an advance notice of proposed rulemaking about potential changes to its resolution planning requirements for insured depository institutions, such as Regions Bank, and the next round of insured depository institution resolution plan submissions will not be required until the rulemaking process is complete. Regions Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan in June 2018. 

On February 5, 2019, the Federal Reserve provided relief to certain BHCs with assets between $100 billion and $250 billion, including Regions, in the form of a one-year extension to the requirement to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve. Thus, Regions was not required to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve in 2019 but must submit a plan by April 6, 2020. In addition, Regions was not subject to the supervisory capital stress testing or the company-run capital stress testing requirements for 2019, but will be subject to supervisory capital stress testing for 2020. However, Regions is still required to develop a capital plan that is reviewed and approved by Regions&#8217; Board of Directors on an annual basis. Furthermore, while Regions was not required to submit a full capital plan to the Federal Reserve in 2019, the Company was required to submit its planned capital actions for the period between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020. The Federal Reserve has announced that for the period from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, Regions, like other firms granted an extension, is approved to make capital distributions up to the amount that would have allowed the firm to remain above all minimum capital requirements in CCAR 2018, adjusted for any changes in Regions&#8217; regulatory capital ratios since the Federal Reserve acted on Regions&#8217; 2018 capital plan. 

Regions cannot predict future changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, yet such changes may have a material impact on Regions&#8217; business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act 

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for BHCs to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incidental thereto. A BHC electing to be treated as a FHC, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments. 

For a BHC to be eligible to elect FHC status, all of its subsidiary insured depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed as described below under &#8220;-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA&#8221; and must have received at least a satisfactory rating on such institution&#8217;s most recent examination under the CRA. The BHC itself must also be well-capitalized and well-managed in order to be eligible to elect FHC status. If an FHC fails to continue to be well-capitalized or well-managed after engaging in activities not permissible for BHCs that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may be required to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a BHC electing to be treated as an FHC. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that an FHC has not maintained a CRA rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; the FHC would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the FHC would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on permissible non-banking activities of BHCs. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any BHC or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the BHC. 

Capital Requirements 

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, which are based on the Basel III framework. 

The Basel III-based U.S. capital rules, among other things, impose a capital measure called Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, or CET1 capital, to which most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures must be made. In addition, the Basel III-based U.S. capital rules specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting certain specified requirements. 

Under the U.S. Basel III-based capital rules, the minimum capital ratios are: 

&#8226; 4.5% CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 6.0% tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 8.0% total capital (that is, tier 1 capital plus tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and 

&#8226; 4.0% tier 1 capital to total average consolidated assets as defined under U.S. Basel III Standardized approach (known as the &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221;). 

The U.S. capital rules also impose a CCB of 2.5% on top of the three minimum risk-weighted asset ratios listed above. Banking institutions that fail to meet the effective minimum ratios once the CCB is taken into account (that is, 7.0% for CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, 8.5% for tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and 10.5% for total capital to risk-weighted assets) will be subject to constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, and certain discretionary executive compensation. The severity of the constraints depends on the amount of the shortfall and the institution&#8217;s &#8220;eligible retained income&#8221; (that is, four quarter trailing net income, net of distributions and tax effects not reflected in net income). On April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal designed to create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of firms&#8217; capital plans with the CCB requirement. Details of this proposal are discussed under &#8220;- Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing&#8221; below. Although the proposal, if adopted, would change the way in which the minimum ratios are calculated, firms would continue to be subject to progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions as they approach the minimum ratios. 

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as &#8220;Basel IV&#8221;). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee&#8217;s standardized approach for credit risk (including recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain &#8220;unconditionally cancellable commitments,&#8221; such as unused credit card and home equity lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027. Under the current U.S. Basel III rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to Regions or Regions Bank. The impact of Basel IV will depend on the manner in which it is implemented in the U.S. with respect to firms such as Regions and Regions Bank. 

For more information, see the &#8220;Regulatory Requirements&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Leverage Requirements 

BHCs and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage capital requirements. These requirements provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total consolidated average tangible assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), called the &#8220;leverage ratio,&#8221; of 4.0% for all BHCs. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Under the aforementioned Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms with less than $50 billion in wSTWF, including Regions, are no longer subject to a LCR requirement. However, Category IV firms remain subject to minimum liquidity buffers and liquidity stress testing requirements, though the minimum frequency of such testing has been revised to quarterly, rather than monthly. The Tailoring Rules also adjusted liquidity risk management requirements such that Category IV firms are required to: (i) calculate collateral positions monthly (as opposed to weekly); (ii) establish a more limited set of liquidity risk limits than was previously required; and (iii) monitor fewer elements of intraday liquidity risk exposures. Category IV firms are required to continue reporting liquidity data on the FR 2052a on a monthly basis. 

The NSFR was designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May 2016, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposed rule to implement the NSFR for large U.S. banking organizations. Under the 2016 proposal, BHCs with less than $250 billion, but more than $50 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure, such as Regions, would have been subject to a less stringent modified NSFR requirement. Although the NSFR has not been finalized, it is expected that the framework for applying any finalized NSFR will be consistent with the approach for the LCR requirement under the Tailoring Rules. 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing 

The Federal Reserve currently conducts analyses of BHCs with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets to determine whether the firms have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in baseline and severely adverse economic conditions. Under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms, including Regions, are now subject to supervisory stress testing every other year, rather than annually, and are no longer subject to company-run stress testing requirements, but remain subject to the quantitative review of their capital plans under CCAR, to required capital plan submissions, and to the FR Y-14 reporting requirements. 

U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, such as Regions, must annually develop and maintain a capital plan, and must submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process. The CCAR 

process is intended to help ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company&#8217;s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. As noted above, in connection with the finalization of the Tailoring Rules, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects to revise its guidance relating to capital planning to align with the categories of standards set forth in the Tailoring Rules, and the impact of the future proposal on Regions and its capital planning process will depend on the final form of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s revised guidance. 

As previously noted above, on April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal designed to create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of CCAR with the CCB requirement. If adopted, the proposal would replace the current static 2.5% CCB with a SCB requirement. The SCB, subject to a minimum of 2.5%, would reflect stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s supervisory stress tests and would also include four quarters of planned common stock dividends. The proposal would also introduce a SLB requirement, similar to the SCB, which would apply to the Tier 1 leverage ratio. In addition, the proposal would eliminate the quantitative objection provisions of CCAR but would require a BHC to reduce its planned capital distributions if those distributions would not be consistent with the applicable capital buffer constraints based on the BHC&#8217;s own baseline scenario projections. The Federal Reserve has stated that it intends to propose revisions to the stress buffer requirements that would be applicable to Category IV BHCs to align with the two-year supervisory stress testing cycle for Category IV BHCs. 

In addition to other limitations, our ability to make capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve&#8217;s non-objection to our capital plan. Should the Federal Reserve object to a capital plan, a BHC may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection in writing. Our annual capital planning submission is currently due by April 6, 2020 and the Federal Reserve will publish the results of its supervisory CCAR review of our capital plan by June 30, 2020. As noted above, the Tailoring Rules, which changed the supervisory stress testing cycle from annual to biennial, did not similarly amend the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan rule, but the Federal Reserve indicated that it expects to release a future proposal to do so. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (&#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2019, both Regions and Regions Bank were well-capitalized. 

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be treated as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. 

The FDIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality, and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. Regulators also must take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution&#8217;s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance sheet position); and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital. Regulators make this evaluation as a part of their regular examination of the institution&#8217;s safety and soundness. Additionally, regulators may choose to examine other factors in order to evaluate the safety and soundness of financial institutions. 

Payment of Dividends 

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to us, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on any of our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. 

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution&#8217;s capital base 

to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See &#8220;-Safety and Soundness Standards&#8221; above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that BHCs and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank . Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. 

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings unless its surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions . Our payment of dividends to our stockholders is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large BHC, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the BHC. See &#8220;-Capital Requirements&#8221; and &#8220;-Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing&#8221; above. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy, which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a BHC&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates, including a parent BHC. Regions Bank is subject to these restrictions, which include quantitative and qualitative limits on the amounts and types of transactions that may take place, including extensions of credit to affiliates, investments in the stock or securities of affiliates, purchases of assets from affiliates and certain other transactions with affiliates. These restrictions also require that credit transactions with affiliates be collateralized and that transactions with affiliates be on market terms or better for the bank. Generally, a bank&#8217;s covered transactions with any affiliate are limited to 10% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus and covered transactions with all affiliates are limited to 20% of the bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus. 

Deposit Insurance 

Regions Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank&#8217;s federal regulatory agency. 

Regions Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, are calculated based on a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large institution will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the deposit insurance fund if such a failure occurs, based primarily on the difference between the institution&#8217;s average of total assets and average tangible equity. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that may not be adequately captured in the scorecard. For large institutions, including Regions Bank, after accounting for potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 1.5 to 40 basis points on an annualized basis. 

For more information, see the &#8220;FDIC Insurance Assessments&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Acquisitions 

The BHC Act requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (i) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC 

will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (ii) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (iii) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. FHCs must obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion. FHCs seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed. 

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the U.S., or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the BHCs and banks impacted and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and the consideration of convenience and needs of the community to be served includes the parties&#8217; performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions&#8217; effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, claims of depositors and certain claims for both administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of such an institution by any receiver. 

Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be considered an investment company for purposes of the Volcker Rule. The final rules implementing the Volcker Rule also require that large BHCs, such as Regions, design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s prohibitions. Development and monitoring of the required compliance program may require the expenditure of resources and management attention. In October 2019, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC, CFTC and SEC finalized rules to tailor the application of the Volcker Rule based on the size and scope of a banking entity&#8217;s trading activities and to clarify and amend certain definitions, requirements and exemptions. These regulators have also stated their intention to engage in further rulemaking with respect to the implementing regulations relating to covered funds, including potential changes to the definition of &#8220;covered fund&#8221; and the prohibitions on certain covered transactions. 

Consumer Protection Laws 

We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. 

Financial Privacy and Cybersecurity 

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is used in diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and application information. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. 

The federal banking regulators regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management standards among financial institutions. A financial institution is expected to establish multiple lines of defense and to ensure their risk management processes address the risk posed by potential threats to the institution. A financial institution&#8217;s management is expected to maintain sufficient processes to effectively respond and recover the institution&#8217;s operations after a cyber-attack. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations if a critical 

service provider of the institution falls victim to this type of cyber-attack. The Regions Information Security Program reflects the requirements of this guidance. 

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective on January 1, 2020. We expect this trend of state-level activity in those areas to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which our customers are located. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution&#8217;s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency&#8217;s assessment is part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s consideration of applications by a bank or BHC to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a BHC applicant, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant BHC, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. In April 2018, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued a memorandum to the federal banking regulators with recommended changes to the CRA&#8217;s implementing regulations to reduce their complexity and associated burden on banks. Subsequently, in December 2019, the OCC and FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking intended update and modernize the CRA's implementing regulations. However, the Federal Reserve has not issued any proposed changes. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes to the regulations implementing the CRA. Regions Bank's most recent CRA rating from the Federal Reserve is "Satisfactory". 

Compensation Practices 

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. The federal banking regulators have provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

A continued focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act&#8217;s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions&#8217; banking subsidiary has augmented its systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. 

FinCEN, which drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act legislation, has adopted rules that require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to legal entities with which such institutions conduct business, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and we continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance programs. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Regulation of Broker Dealers and Investment Advisers 

Our subsidiaries, Regions Securities LLC and BlackArch Securities LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC, and Regions Investment Management, Inc. and Highland Associates, Inc. are registered investment advisers with the SEC. These subsidiaries are, as a result, subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

C ompetition 

All aspects of our business are highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, Internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. We expect competition to remain intense among financial services companies given the relatively low interest rate and slower economic environment relative to past economic cycles. Also, future changes in monetary policy , coupled with post-crisis regulatory requirements, may increase competition for certain deposit products. Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by our subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although our position varies in different markets, we believe that our affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. 

E mployees 

As of December 31, 2019, Regions and its subsidiaries had 19,564 full-time equivalent employees 

A vailable Information 

We maintain a website at www.regions.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Also available on our website are our (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Fair Disclosure Policy Summary, and (v) the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Committee. 

