 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, some of which, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, compliance, reputational and strategic risks, could be substantial and is inherent in our business. This risk also includes the possibility that the value of the investment could decrease considerably, and dividends or other distributions concerning the investment could be reduced or eliminated. Discussed below is a risk factor that could adversely affect Regions' financial results and condition, as well as the value of, and return on investment in the Company, that was not included in Part II, Item 1A of the 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K as it arose after the filing. 

Our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. We cannot predict at this time the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. The extent of any continued or future adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and outside our control, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our employees, clients, customers, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to (i) increased unemployment and decreased consumer confidence and business generally, leading to an increased risk of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures; (ii) sudden and significant declines, and significant increases in volatility, in financial markets; (iii) ratings downgrades, credit deterioration and defaults in many industries, including transportation, natural resources (in particular oil and gas), hospitality and commercial real estate; (iv) significant draws on credit lines as customers seek to increase liquidity; (v) significant reductions in the targeted federal funds rate (which was reduced to a target rate of between zero and 0.25% in the first quarter and may be reduced to below zero if the Federal Reserve determines economic conditions warrant); (vi) increased spending on our business continuity efforts, which may in turn require that we further cut costs and investments in other areas; and (vii) heightened cybersecurity, information security and operational risks as a result of work-from-home arrangements. In addition, we also face an increased risk of client disputes, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. 

We are prioritizing the safety of our customers and employees, and have temporarily closed a small number of branches and have limited branch activity to drive-through services or in-office appointments. Additionally, almost 50% of associates are working remotely. If these measures are not effective in serving our customers or affect the productivity of our associates, they may lead to significant disruptions in our business operations. 

Many of our counterparties and third-party service providers have also been, and may further be, affected by &#8220;stay-at-home&#8221; orders, market volatility and other factors that increase their risks of business disruption or that may otherwise affect their ability to perform under the terms of any agreements with us or provide essential services. As a result, our operational and other risks are generally expected to increase until the pandemic subsides. 

We have experienced an increase in cyber events, such as phishing attacks and malicious traffic from outside the United States. Our layered control environment has effectively detected and prevented any material impact related to these events to date. Our information security risks are generally expected to increase until the pandemic subsides. 

We are offering special financial assistance to support customers who are experiencing financial hardships related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including waivers of certain withdrawal fees from time deposits and savings and money market accounts, loan payment deferrals and extensions, credit card payment extensions, consumer mortgage payment forbearance and payment deferment, suspending initiation of new repossessions of automobiles and other vehicles and suspending new residential property foreclosures on consumer real estate loans. Additionally, we are a certified and qualified SBA lender and are assisting our customers with their applications for the PPP. These assistance efforts may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. These government programs are complex and our participation may lead to governmental and regulatory scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. In addition, if such measures are not effective in mitigating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on borrowers, we may experience higher rates of default and increased credit losses in future periods. 

Certain industries where Regions has credit exposure, including restaurants (in particular, casual dining restaurants), hotels, agriculture, commercial retail, and transportation, have experienced significant operational challenges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These negative effects have resulted in a number of corporate lending clients making higher than usual draws on 

outstanding lines of credit, which may negatively affect our liquidity if current economic conditions persist. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may also cause our commercial customers to be unable to pay their loans as they come due or decrease the value of collateral, which we expect would cause significant increases in our credit losses. 

Our earnings and cash flows are dependent to a large degree on net interest income (the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings). Net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest. The significant reductions to the federal funds rate has led to a decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury securities. If interest rates are reduced further in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect that our net interest income will decline, perhaps significantly. The overall effect of lower interest rates cannot be predicted at this time and depends on future actions the Federal Reserve may take to increase or reduce the targeted federal funds rate in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and resulting economic conditions. 

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic and market conditions have increased demands on our liquidity as we meet our customers&#8217; and clients&#8217; needs. We have suspended stock repurchases through the second quarter of 2020 to preserve capital and liquidity in order to support our customers, clients and employees and although we have no current plans to reduce or suspend our common stock dividend, we will continue to exercise prudent capital management and monitor the business environment. 

The COVID-19 pandemic may impact our assessment of our goodwill. During the first quarter of 2020, Regions assessed goodwill in light of the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and concluded that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units was less than its carrying value. Risks to our goodwill assessment are generally expected to increase until the pandemic subsides. 

Governmental authorities worldwide have taken unprecedented measures to stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to address the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity. 

Other negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that may impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations cannot be predicted at this time, but it is likely that our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected until the pandemic subsides and the U.S. economy begins to recover. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Until the pandemic subsides, we expect continued draws on lines of credit, reduced revenues from our lending businesses, increased credit losses in our lending portfolios and decreased fee income. Even after the pandemic subsides, it is possible that the U.S. and other major economies continue to experience a prolonged recession, which we expect would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. 

