 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

Northern Trust Corporation 

Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation is a financial holding company conducting business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank). 

The Bank is an Illinois banking corporation headquartered in Chicago and the Corporation&#8217;s principal subsidiary. Founded in 1889, the Bank conducts its business through its U.S. operations and its various U.S. and non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries. At December 31, 2020, the Bank had consolidated assets of $169.6 billion and common bank equity capital of $10.8 billion. 

The Corporation was formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a network of offices in 22 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., and across 22 locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation had consolidated total assets of $170.0 billion and stockholders&#8217; equity of $11.7 billion. 

The Corporation expects that the Bank will continue in the foreseeable future to be the major source of the Corporation&#8217;s consolidated assets, revenues, and net income. Except where the context otherwise requires, references to &#8220;Northern Trust,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;its,&#8221; or similar terms mean Northern Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 

Business Overview 

Northern Trust focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate &#38; Institutional Services (C&#38;IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&#38;IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to C&#38;IS and Wealth Management. Northern Trust reports certain income and expense items not allocated to C&#38;IS and Wealth Management in a third reporting segment, Treasury and Other. 

CORPORATE &#38; INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES 

C&#38;IS is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including, but not limited to: custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment management; investment risk and analytical services; employee benefit services; securities lending; foreign exchange; treasury management; brokerage services; transition management services; banking; and cash management. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank&#8217;s and the Corporation&#8217;s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. At December 31, 2020, total C&#38;IS assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management were $13.65 trillion, $10.39 trillion, and $1.06 trillion, respectively. 

WEALTH MANAGEMENT 

Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. The business also includes the Global Family Office, which provides customized services to meet the complex financial needs of individuals and family offices in the United States and throughout the world with assets typically exceeding $200 million. In supporting these targeted segments, Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking. 

Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States, with assets under custody/administration, assets under custody, and assets under management of $879.4 billion, $875.1 billion, and $347.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2020. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 19 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi. 

ASSET MANAGEMENT 

Asset Management, through the Corporation&#8217;s various subsidiaries, supports the C&#38;IS and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 1 

##TABLE_END

funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management&#8217;s capabilities include active and passive equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; multi-asset and alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management&#8217;s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements and its revenue and expense are fully allocated to C&#38;IS and Wealth Management. As discussed above, Northern Trust managed $1.41 trillion in assets as of December 31, 2020, including $1.06 trillion for C&#38;IS clients and $347.8 billion for Wealth Management clients. 

Competition 

Northern Trust faces intense competition in all aspects and areas of its business. Competition comes from both regulated and unregulated financial services organizations, whose products and services span the local, national, and global markets in which Northern Trust conducts operations. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and service companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, asset management firms, benefits consultants, trust companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, and various financial technology companies, including software providers and data services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. 

Northern Trust&#8217;s business strategy is to provide quality financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern Trust seeks to differentiate itself from its competitors with premier, holistic solutions and exceptional experiences tailored to meet clients&#8217; needs. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and continual productivity improvements. Northern Trust also seeks to maintain its foundational strength with a strong, conservative balance sheet and a globally respected brand. 

Economic Conditions And Government Policies 

The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and actions that governments and their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of Northern Trust&#8217;s businesses, as well as the quality, value, and profitability of its loan and investment portfolios. 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implements monetary policy through its open market operations in United States Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks, and its changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board directly affect interest rates and therefore what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Northern Trust is subject to extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the United States and in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business. The discussion below outlines significant elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Northern Trust. Changes in laws or regulations applicable to Northern Trust may have a material effect on its businesses and results of operations. 

FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION 

Under U.S. law, the Corporation is a bank holding company that has elected to be a financial holding company subject to the supervision, examination, and regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. A financial holding company is permitted to engage in a broader range of financial activities than a bank holding company. To maintain the Corporation&#8217;s status as a financial holding company, the Bank and the Corporation must remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; and the Bank must have received at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) examination. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements may result in restrictions on the Corporation&#8217;s ability to exercise powers granted to financial holding companies, to engage in new activities, to continue current activities, or to make acquisitions. 

SUBSIDIARY REGULATION 

The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, with deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and is subject to regulation by both agencies. As an Illinois banking corporation, the Bank is also subject to Illinois state laws and regulations and to examination and supervision by the Division of Banking of the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. The Bank is also registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve Board and is registered provisionally as a swap dealer with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission 

##TABLE_START 

2 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 

##TABLE_END

(CFTC) under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a result, the Bank is subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by certain other regulatory bodies, including the CFTC and the National Futures Association (NFA). 

The Corporation&#8217;s nonbanking affiliates are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board and, in certain circumstances, other functional regulators. The Corporation&#8217;s broker-dealer subsidiary is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a broker-dealer, investment adviser, and municipal securities dealer, and is subject to the rules and regulations of these bodies. Certain nonbanking affiliates are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators and subject to supervision and regulation by the CFTC and NFA. Other subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and are subject to regulation by the SEC. Subsidiaries may also be regulated by state regulators in various states. 

THE DODD-FRANK ACT, AS AMENDED 

The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), as implemented through final rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board and other agencies and amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the Regulatory Relief Act), most relevant to the Corporation and its subsidiaries, including the Bank. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards. The Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board through various rulemakings and amended by the Regulatory Relief Act, generally imposes enhanced prudential requirements on U.S. bank holding companies with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Corporation. The enhanced prudential standards include more stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management, and stress testing requirements and single counterparty credit limits for large bank holding companies, including the Corporation. The Federal Reserve Board also has the discretion to require these large U.S. bank holding companies to limit their short-term debt, to issue contingent capital instruments, and to provide enhanced public disclosures. 

In October 2019, the Federal Reserve Board finalized a proposed rule implementing changes made by the Regulatory Relief Act. This rule introduced a new four-category framework to determine which enhanced prudential standards and other requirements are applicable to institutions with total consolidated assets of at least $100 billion, based on asset thresholds and other risk-based factors. Under the new rules, the Corporation is classified as a Category II institution. 

The requirements under the new framework that apply to the Corporation are largely unchanged as a result of the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s final tailoring rule for enhanced prudential standards. The Corporation must submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board, conduct supervisory and internal periodic stress tests to evaluate capital adequacy in adverse economic conditions, maintain enhanced risk management procedures, comply with a liquidity risk management framework (discussed below in &#8220;Liquidity Standards&#8221;) and aggregate credit exposure limits, conduct liquidity stress tests, and hold a buffer of liquid assets estimated to meet funding needs during a financial stress event. The Corporation is not subject to the total loss-absorbing capacity requirement, capital surcharge, enhanced supplementary leverage ratio, or aggregate credit exposure limit that apply to U.S. bank holding companies that are global systemically important bank holding companies. 

Resolution Planning. As required by Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Corporation is required to submit periodically to regulators a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. In addition, under an FDIC rule (the CIDI Resolution Plan Rule) the Bank must submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of its failure. 

On March 29, 2019, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC provided joint written feedback to the Corporation regarding the resolution plan submitted by the Corporation in December 2017, pursuant to Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act (the 2017 165(d) Plan). The joint written feedback stated that the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC did not identify shortcomings or deficiencies in the 2017 165(d) Plan. The Corporation is required to submit its next Section 165(d) resolution plan by December 17, 2021, and it must address the informational content specified in a guidance letter issued by the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC in December 2020. 

In addition, on June 27, 2018, the Bank submitted its resolution plan (the 2018 CIDI Plan) to the FDIC under the CIDI Resolution Plan Rule. To date, no formal written feedback or guidance has been received regarding the 2018 CIDI Plan. On January 19, 2021, the FDIC announced that it will resume requiring resolution plan submissions for insured depository institutions with $100 billion or more in assets. The FDIC announcement indicated that no firm will be required to submit a resolution plan without at least 12 months advance notice provided to the firm. To date, the Bank has not received notice from the FDIC indicating its next resolution plan submission date. 

Separately, the European Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), was adopted for European Union credit institutions, including certain of the Bank&#8217;s subsidiaries and branches, effective January 1, 2015. In accordance with applicable Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF) guidance, a Simplified Recovery Plan for Northern Trust Global Services SE, a Luxembourg-registered indirect subsidiary of the Bank, has been established and will be 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 3 

##TABLE_END

reviewed and filed with the CSSF at least biennially. CSSF regulations also require institutions to submit resolution-related data on an annual basis, a requirement for which Northern Trust Global Services SE has an established process. 

Orderly Liquidation Authority. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, such as the Corporation and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to an orderly liquidation authority if in default or danger of default and their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States, among other requirements set by statute. If the Corporation were subject to orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as its receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve the Corporation. Absent such actions, the Corporation, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The Volcker Rule . The Volcker Rule bans proprietary trading subject to exceptions for market-making, hedging, certain trading activities in U.S. and foreign sovereign debt, certain trading activities of non-U.S. banking entities trading outside the United States, certain customer-driven matched swaps, and trading activities related to liquidity management. The Volcker Rule also imposes significant restrictions on sponsoring or investing in certain &#8220;covered funds,&#8221; such as hedge funds or private equity funds, again subject to exceptions. Northern Trust maintains an enterprise-wide compliance program to comply with the Volcker Rule. 

Swaps and Other Derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed a regulatory structure on the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, trade reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires certain entities to register as a &#8220;major swap participant,&#8221; a &#8220;swap dealer,&#8221; a &#8220;major-security-based swap participant&#8221; or a &#8220;security-based swap dealer.&#8221; The Bank is required to register as a swap dealer and its swap dealer activities are subject to the CFTC&#8217;s rules and regulations, including rules regarding internal and external business conduct standards, reporting and recordkeeping, mandatory clearing for certain swaps, trade documentation and confirmation requirements, and cross-border swap activities. The Bank is also subject to Federal Reserve Board regulations regarding mandatory posting and collection of margin by certain swap counterparties. Several of the SEC&#8217;s requirements for security-based swap dealers came into effect on April 6, 2020. Under those requirements, persons or entities must begin counting security-based swap activities on August 6, 2021, and may be required to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer after October 6, 2021. The Corporation does not expect that it, or any of its affiliates, will be required to register as a security-based swap dealer with the SEC. 

HOLDING COMPANY SUPPORT UNDER THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT 

The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) to obligate the Federal Reserve Board to require bank holding companies, such as the Corporation, to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for any subsidiary depository institution. Under this requirement, the Corporation in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank should the Bank experience financial distress. 

PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS 

The Corporation may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with the capital plan rules and capital adequacy standards of the Federal Reserve Board, including the stress capital buffer requirement, discussed further at &#8220;&#8212;Capital Adequacy Requirements&#8221; below. Dividends from the Bank are a significant source of funds for the Corporation, and the Corporation&#8217;s ability to pay dividends on its common stock therefore depends on the ability of the Bank to pay sufficient dividends to the Corporation. 

Various other federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the Corporation without regulatory consent. The Bank may not pay any dividends if it is undercapitalized, or if the payment of the dividend would cause it to become undercapitalized. In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid in a calendar year is limited to its &#8220;recent earnings&#8221; (the current year&#8217;s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years), or its &#8220;undivided profits&#8221; (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus), whichever is less. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation may also be affected by the capital adequacy standards applicable to the Bank (discussed further below), which include minimum requirements and buffers. 

CAPITAL PLANNING AND STRESS TESTING 

The Corporation&#8217;s capital distributions are subject to the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s capital plan rules, which require the Corporation to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board for review. 

The major components of that oversight are the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act stress tests (DFAST). These requirements involve both company-run and supervisory-run testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking regulator. Results from the Corporation&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and made publicly available. 

The Corporation submitted its capital plan for the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s 2020 CCAR exercise in April 2020 and, in November 2020, resubmitted the plan at the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s request to reflect stresses from the COVID-19 

##TABLE_START 

4 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 

##TABLE_END

pandemic. On June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve Board imposed restrictions that were designed to cause large bank holding companies to preserve capital, including suspending share repurchases, capping dividend payments, and only allowing common stock dividends according to a formula based on recent income. On December 18, 2020, the Federal Reserve Board extended a portion of these restrictions to limit share repurchases and dividend payments based on recent income. These restrictions apply for the first quarter of 2021 and may be extended further. 

Under the DFAST regulations, the Corporation is required to undergo regulatory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve Board annually. The Bank also is required to conduct its own annual internal stress test (although it is permitted to combine certain reporting and disclosure of its stress test results with the results of the Corporation). Results from the Corporation&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s annual company-run stress tests are reported to the appropriate regulators and made publicly available. Northern Trust published the results of its company-run stress tests on June 25, 2020. 

CAPITAL ADEQUACY REQUIREMENTS 

The Corporation, as a bank holding company, is subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines implemented by the Federal Reserve Board that are based on industry-standard guidelines published by the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), known as Basel III. The Bank, as an FDIC-insured depository institution, is also required to meet risk-based and leverage capital guidelines established by regulators which are generally similar to those established by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies. 

Under the final Basel III rules, the Corporation, with the Bank, is a &#8220;core&#8221; banking organization that is required to use the advanced approaches methodologies to calculate and disclose publicly its risk-based capital ratios. The Corporation also is subject to a capital floor that is based on the Basel III standardized approach to calculating risk-based capital ratios. The Corporation is therefore required to calculate its risk-based capital ratios under both the standardized and advanced approaches, and is subject to the more stringent of the two in the assessment of its capital adequacy. 

The Bank&#8217;s risk-based and leverage capital ratios at December 31, 2020, were well above the regulatory requirements established by U.S. banking regulators. The risk-based and leverage capital ratios for the Corporation and the Bank, together with the regulatory minimum ratios and the ratios required for classification as &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; are provided in the following chart. 

TABLE 1: RISK-BASED AND LEVERAGE CAPITAL RATIOS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2020 

##TABLE_START COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL TIER 1 CAPITAL TOTAL CAPITAL TIER 1 LEVERAGE SUPPLEMENTARY LEVERAGE (1) 

STANDARDIZED APPROACH ADVANCED APPROACH STANDARDIZED APPROACH ADVANCED APPROACH STANDARDIZED APPROACH ADVANCED APPROACH STANDARDIZED APPROACH ADVANCED APPROACH ADVANCED APPROACH Northern Trust Corporation 12.8 % 13.4 % 13.9 % 14.5 % 15.6 % 15.9 % 7.6 % 7.6 % 8.6 % The Northern Trust Company 13.0 % 13.8 % 13.0 % 13.8 % 14.5 % 15.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.7 % Minimum required ratio 4.5 % 4.5 % 6.0 % 6.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 3.0 % &#8220;Well-capitalized&#8221; minimum ratios, as applicable Northern Trust Corporation N/A N/A 6.0 % 6.0 % 10.0 % 10.0 % N/A N/A N/A The Northern Trust Company 6.5 % 6.5 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 10.0 % 10.0 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 3.0 % ##TABLE_END

(1) In November 2019, the Federal Reserve and other U.S. federal banking agencies adopted a final rule that established a deduction for central bank deposits from the total leverage exposures of custodial banking organizations, including Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company, equal to the lesser of (i) the total amount of funds the custodial banking organization and its consolidated subsidiaries have on deposit at qualifying central banks and (ii) the total amount of client funds on deposit at the custodial banking organization that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts. The rule became effective on April 1, 2020. 

Further, on April 1, 2020, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that requires bank holding companies, including Northern Trust Corporation, to deduct, on a temporary basis, deposits with the Federal Reserve and investments in U.S. Treasury securities from their total leverage exposure. The U.S. Treasury securities deduction is applied in addition to the central bank deposits relief referred to above. This rule became effective on April 1, 2020 and will remain in effect through the first quarter of 2021. On May 15, 2020, the U.S. federal banking agencies released an interim final rule that permits insured depository institutions of bank holding companies also to temporarily exclude deposits with the Federal Reserve and investments in U.S. Treasury securities from their total leverage exposure. The Northern Trust Company did not elect to take this deduction. 

The supplementary leverage ratios at December 31, 2020 for the Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company reflect the impact of these final rules. 

Advanced approaches institutions, such as the Corporation and the Bank, are subject to a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. Advanced approaches institutions that are insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, also must maintain at least a 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio to be considered &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; The Corporation is also subject to a stress capital buffer, which integrates forward-looking stress test results with non-stress capital requirements, and the Bank is also subject to a capital conservation buffer, which respectively requires the Corporation and the Bank to 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 5 

##TABLE_END

hold a buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital above the minimum risk-based capital requirements in order to avoid constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation. The minimum capital buffer requirement for advanced approaches banking organizations, such as the Corporation and the Bank, is 2.5%. 

A &#8220;countercyclical buffer&#8221; of 0% to 2.5% of a banking organization&#8217;s total risk-weighted assets for advanced approaches banking organizations, such as the Corporation, is also a component of the capital adequacy framework. In general, the amount of the countercyclical capital buffer is a weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer established in the various jurisdictions in which the banking organization has credit exposures. The U.S. countercyclical buffer is currently set at 0%. 

As a result of the stress test results published by the Federal Reserve on June 25, 2020, the Corporation&#8217;s stress capital buffer requirement for the 2020 capital plan cycle was set at 2.5%. The 2020 stress capital buffer became effective October 1, 2020, and results in a common equity tier 1 capital ratio minimum requirement of 7.0%. 

LIQUIDITY STANDARDS 

Northern Trust is subject to the U.S. liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement, which is designed to ensure that covered banking organizations including the Corporation and the Bank maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to their expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under a regulatorily prescribed liquidity stress scenario. As of December 31, 2020, the Corporation and the Bank were in compliance with applicable LCR requirements. 

Basel III also introduced the concept of a net stable funding ratio (NSFR) requirement, designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. The NSFR will require certain banking organizations, including the Corporation and the Bank, to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to the composition of their assets and off-balance sheet activities. The Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule in October 2020 implementing the NSFR and the Corporation and the Bank will be required to comply with the NSFR requirement on July 1, 2021. 

The enhanced prudential standards imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Regulatory Reform Act, specify certain required liquidity risk management practices for large bank holding companies and banks. The Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s October 2019 final tailoring rule targets certain aspects of these requirements based on banking organizations&#8217; business model and risk profile, as delineated into four risk-based categories. The Corporation, a Category II institution under the final tailoring rule, is subject to the liquidity risk management, monthly liquidity stress testing, liquidity buffer, and daily liquidity reporting requirements. 

PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION 

Federal banking regulators are required to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, and are also authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company of an under-capitalized banking subsidiary. In certain instances, the Corporation could be required to guarantee the performance of a capital restoration plan for the Bank if it were under-capitalized. 

RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES 

The Bank is subject to restrictions governing transactions between it and affiliated entities, including the Corporation, its affiliates, and its subsidiaries. These transactions must be on terms and conditions that are, or in good faith would be, offered to nonaffiliated companies (i.e., on terms not less favorable to the Bank than market terms). Further, extensions of credit must be secured fully with qualifying collateral and are limited to 10% of the Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus for transactions with a single affiliate and to 20% of the Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus for transactions with all affiliates. 

ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, ANTI-TERRORISM LEGISLATION, AND OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL 

The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and implemented in the regulation of the federal banking regulators and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which contain anti-money laundering (AML) and financial transparency requirements for conducting due diligence, verifying client and beneficial owner identification, and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. AML laws outside the United States contain similar requirements. 

Various legal requirements prohibit Northern Trust entities from engaging in business in or with certain jurisdictions and parties, such as organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts. The U.S. Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control publishes lists of these prohibited parties. If the Corporation or the Bank finds a sanctioned name or jurisdiction on any transaction or account, the Corporation or the Bank must reject or block such account or transaction and notify the appropriate authorities. 

Failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, restrictions on their business activities or harm to reputation. Many other countries have imposed 

##TABLE_START 

6 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 

##TABLE_END

similar laws and regulations that apply to the Corporation&#8217;s non-U.S. offices. The Corporation has established policies and procedures to comply with these laws and the related regulations. 

DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND ASSESSMENTS 

The Bank accepts deposits, and eligible deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limit, which is currently $250,000 for each depositor account. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or has violated laws, regulations, or orders from a regulatory agency. Certain liquid assets are excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy certain institutional eligibility criteria. This has the effect of reducing the amount of deposit insurance fund insurance premiums payable by custody banks. The Bank qualifies as a custody bank for this purpose. 

COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT 

The Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. The Bank fulfills its CRA obligations by making qualified investments for the purposes of community development. The Bank received an &#8220;outstanding&#8221; CRA rating from the Federal Reserve Board in its most recent CRA examination. In September 2020, the Federal Reserve Board issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding potential changes to the regulations issued under the CRA, but has not taken further action to date. 

PRIVACY AND SECURITY 

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring financial institutions to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information, setting limitations on disclosure to third parties of consumer information, setting standards for protecting client information, and requiring notice of data breaches in certain circumstances. Most states, the European Union (EU) and other non-U.S. jurisdictions also have adopted their own statutes and/or regulations concerning data privacy and security and requiring notification of data breaches. For example, a European data protection framework&#8212;the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)&#8212;was adopted on April 8, 2016, and became effective in all European Economic Area (EEA) member states on May 25, 2018. GDPR is designed to harmonize data privacy laws across the EEA, to protect EEA citizens&#8217; data privacy and to reshape the way organizations across the region approach data privacy. GDPR has extraterritorial effect as its scope includes all data controllers and processors outside the EEA whose processing activities relate to the offering of goods or services to, or monitoring the behavior of, EEA individuals. Organizations that violate certain provisions of GDPR could be fined up to &#8364;20 million or 4% of their annual worldwide revenue for the preceding fiscal year, whichever is greater. In the United States, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) was adopted by the State of California and became effective January 1, 2020, and then enforceable on July 1, 2020. The CCPA substantially increased the rights of California residents to understand how their personal data is collected and used by commercial businesses. The CCPA includes a private right of action (permitting lawsuits to be brought by private individuals instead of the state Attorney General or other government actor for breaches), and contemplates civil penalties of up to $2,500 for each violation and up to $7,500 for each intentional violation. On November 3, 2020, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), which amends and supersedes portions of the CCPA, was approved by a majority of California voters. Among other changes, the CPRA will establish the California Privacy Protection Agency to administer, implement, and enforce the CCPA and CPRA. The CPRA is expected to be fully operative beginning in 2023, and will apply to personal information collected on or after January 1, 2022. However, the CCPA, including its implementing regulations, remains in effect until the CPRA is operative. 

The Corporation has adopted and disseminated privacy policies and communicates required information relating to financial privacy and data security in accordance with applicable law. 

CONSUMER LAWS AND REGULATIONS 

The Corporation&#8217;s banking subsidiaries are subject to certain federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions and reputational damage to the financial institution. Consumer laws and regulations are enforced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other federal and state regulators. 

NON-U.S. REGULATION 

Northern Trust is subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which its non-U.S. branches and subsidiaries operate. For example, branches and subsidiaries conducting banking and asset servicing businesses in the United Kingdom (UK) are authorized to do so pursuant to the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. They are authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and regulated by the FCA and, in some instances, also the PRA. The PRA and FCA exercise broad supervisory and disciplinary powers that 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 7 

##TABLE_END

include the power to revoke temporarily or permanently authorization to conduct a regulated business upon breach of the relevant regulations, suspend registered employees, and impose censures and fines on both regulated businesses and their regulated employees. 

Northern Trust&#8217;s European branches and subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the EU and the member states in which they are domiciled or the UK. For example, with the establishment of Northern Trust Global Services SE as an EU-domiciled credit institution in Luxembourg in connection with the Corporation&#8217;s planning related to the UK&#8217;s departure from the EU, commonly referred to as &#8220;Brexit,&#8221; such entity is subject to the prudential supervision of the European Central Bank and the CSSF. Moreover, Northern Trust&#8217;s non-EU branches and subsidiaries conducting financial services activities also may be within the scope of the laws of the EU, given that some EU laws apply to the wider EEA, which includes not only all EU member states but also the non-EU member states Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and because of increasing extraterritorial effect of EU legislation. 

Effective January 31, 2020, the UK is no longer a member of the EU. EU legislation as it applied to the UK on December 31, 2020 is now a part of UK domestic legislation, under the control of the UK&#8217;s Parliament and Assemblies. 

The following items provide a brief description of certain recently implemented and in-progress regulatory changes in the EU and the UK relevant to the Corporation and its subsidiaries, in addition to the BRRD and GDPR discussed under &#8220;The Dodd-Frank Act, as Amended&#8212;Resolution Planning&#8221; and &#8220;Privacy and Security,&#8221; respectively, above. 

Revised Capital Requirements Directive and revised Capital Requirements Regulation. The EU Capital Requirements Directive of June 26, 2013 (CRD) and the EU Capital Requirements Regulation of June 26, 2013 (CRR) govern the legal framework for banking regulation in the EU, including, among other things, own fund requirements. On November 23, 2016, the European Commission (Commission) published a proposal for a revision of the CRD (CRD V) and the CRR (CRR II). EU member states were required to implement the requirements in the CRD V into their national law by December 28, 2020, with most of the measures to apply from December 29, 2020. Most of the CRR II will apply from June 28, 2021. Further, CRD V and CRR II currently contain mandates for the European Banking Authority (EBA) to produce a number of regulatory technical standards (RTS) and implementing technical standards (ITS), which remain under development. 

Central Securities Depositories Regulation. On September 17, 2014, the EU Central Securities Depositories Regulation (CSDR) entered into force (subject to a number of transitional provisions). The CSDR aims principally to ensure that transactions between buyers and sellers of dematerialized securities are settled in a safe and timely manner by introducing common securities settlement standards across the EU. CSDR requires several &#8220;Level 2&#8221; (or implementing) measures in order for its provisions to take effect fully. A number of these &#8220;Level 2&#8221; measures were published in 2017. On September 13, 2018, the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/1229 supplementing the CSDR with regard to technical standards on settlement discipline was published in the EU&#8217;s Official Journal. The EU subsequently approved the delay of the CSDR until February 1, 2022. Since then, the Commission&#8217;s 2021 work program and its 2020 Capital Markets Union Action Plan announced an intention to bring forward a legislative proposal which would include simplifying the CSDR and to make it more proportionate and less burdensome for stakeholders. In December 2020, the Commission published a Consultation Paper which seeks stakeholder input into its legislative proposals to ensure the overall objectives of CSDR are fulfilled in a more proportionate, efficient and effective manner. 

Securities Financing Transactions and Reuse of Collateral Regulation. On November 25, 2015, the EU adopted a regulation on securities financing transactions and reuse of collateral (SFTR) as part of its approach to addressing shadow banking. The regulation includes provisions for enhanced transparency and reporting of securities financing transactions. The SFTR entered into force on January 12, 2016, subject to certain transitional provisions. SFTR requires adoption of certain &#8220;Level 2&#8221; measures which were finalized in 2019. The reporting obligations under the SFTR have been phased in from April 11, 2020, with the final phase commencing on January 11, 2021. 

UK Criminal Finances Act . On September 30, 2017, the UK Criminal Finances Act (CFA) entered into force. The CFA has extra-territorial effect, introducing certain new corporate criminal offenses in circumstances where a corporate entity or partnership (a relevant body) fails to prevent an &#8220;associated person&#8221; (broadly meaning an employee, agent or person who performs services for or on behalf of the relevant body) from criminally facilitating the evasion of tax, whether the tax evaded is owed (i) in the UK or (ii) in a foreign country if the relevant body has a nexus, or any conduct constituting part of the foreign tax evasion facilitation offense takes place, in the UK. These corporate offenses are strict liability offenses, such that in circumstances where an associated person of a relevant body criminally facilitates the evasion of tax and such relevant body has failed to prevent the associated person from committing such criminal facilitation of tax evasion, the relevant body will itself be guilty of a criminal offense carrying unlimited fines, unless it can show that it put in place reasonable prevention procedures (or by showing that it was not reasonable in all the circumstances to expect the relevant body to have any prevention procedures in place). 

Benchmarks Regulation. On January 1, 2018, the EU Benchmarks Regulation (BMR) became applicable in all EU member states, subject to certain transitional provisions. The principal objectives of the BMR are to restore investor 

##TABLE_START 

8 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 

##TABLE_END

confidence in the accuracy, robustness and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds, and the benchmark-setting process itself. The BMR aims to achieve these objectives by ensuring that benchmarks are not subject to conflicts of interest, are used appropriately, and reflect the actual market or economic reality they are intended to measure. On July 24, 2020, the Commission adopted a legislative proposal (COM (2020) 337 final) (2020/0154 (COD)) for a regulation amending the BMR regarding designation of replacement benchmarks where certain widely-used benchmarks have ceased, including the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The proposed regulation would provide for a statutory replacement rate to be available by the time a benchmark ceases. The proposed regulation is working its way through the European Parliament and the Council of the EU and is expected to be adopted by such institutions the day following its publication in the EU&#8217;s Official Journal. 

Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations. On December 29, 2019, the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations (SFDR) entered into force. SFDR aims to prevent &#8220;greenwashing&#8221; (conveying a misleading or false impression a product is more environmentally favorable than it actually is) by requiring disclosure of how sustainability risks and environmental, societal and governance (ESG) factors are part of the investment and business processes of asset managers. Mandatory disclosures are required to be published at product and manager levels in a variety of ways, including on websites, in pre-contractual documents (e.g. prospectuses) and in annual reports. Certain significant provisions apply from March 10, 2021. 

Taxonomy Regulation . On July 12, 2020, Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (Taxonomy Regulation) entered into force. The Taxonomy Regulations are part of the EU&#8217;s recent measures designed to encourage environmentally sustainable investment decision making and introduce a technical framework to ascertain how sustainable an economic activity is. The Taxonomy Regulations apply to financial market participants including Market in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) firms, Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) management companies, and alternative investment fund managers, and will require them to make further pre-contractual and periodic disclosures. The Commission has delayed the application of &#8220;Level 2&#8221; measures and it is expected that the implementation date will be delayed to January 2022. 

European Deposit Insurance Scheme. On October 11, 2017, the Commission announced that it aimed to complete all parts of the European Banking Union by 2018. The banking union is in place and operational except for the creation of a single European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS). The EDIS will apply to deposit guarantee schemes (DGSs) in EU member states participating in the single supervisory mechanism (SSM) and credit institutions in those member states. The EU Council and Parliament continue to consider the legislative proposal for the EDIS regulation, which was published by the Commission in November 2015. The Commission proposed changes to its approach to the EDIS in its October 2017 communication on completing the banking union but has not yet published any revisions to the text of the EDIS regulation to reflect these changes. The communication also urged the European Parliament and European Council to adopt these measures quickly to complete the banking union however this remains outstanding. 

Fifth EU Money Laundering Directive. On July 9, 2018, the Fifth EU Money Laundering Directive (MLD5) entered into force. MLD5 was required to be transposed into local law by EU member states by January 10, 2020 and introduces the following key changes to the current EU AML regime: (i) EU member states must ensure that registers of ultimate beneficial owners of companies and other legal entities become accessible to the general public; (ii) the current AML regime is extended to additional service providers, such as electronic wallet providers, virtual currency exchange service providers, and art dealers, and further specifications regarding the scope of application of MLD5 with respect to tax advisors and estate agents are provided; (iii) the threshold for identifying holders of prepaid cards is lowered to &#8364;150; and (iv) EU member states will be required to implement enhanced due diligence measures to monitor suspicious transactions involving high-risk countries more strictly. 

Shareholder Rights Directive. On May 17, 2017, the recast Shareholder Rights Directive (EU) 2017/828 was published (SRD II). Member states of the EU were required to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by June 10, 2019. SRD was designed to establish requirements in relation to the exercise of shareholder rights and, recognizing that shares are often held through complex chains of intermediaries, SRD II is designed to improve mechanisms for the identification of shareholders by companies, as well as improve the transmission of information along the chain of intermediaries to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights. Non-EU intermediaries are required to comply with the requirements if they provide services with respect to shares of companies that have their registered office in the EU. The Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 of September 3, 2018 set out minimum requirements for implementing SRD II, which have applied from September 3, 2020. 

Depositary Books &#38; Records. Following the European Securities and Markets Authority&#8217;s opinion on asset segregation and application of depositary delegation rules to central securities depositories published on July 20, 2017, and entered into force on April 1, 2020, changes were introduced by two EU regulations modifying the existing Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) and UCITS Level 2 Regulations: Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2018/1618 relating to the safe-keeping duties of depositaries of alternative investment funds and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2018/1619 relating to the safe-keeping duties of depositaries of UCITS. The changes aim to 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 9 

##TABLE_END

better define asset segregation requirements and to add additional safeguards, primarily focusing on information flow between the depositary and any third party to whom safe-keeping functions have been delegated. The key changes (i) impact the frequency of reconciliations between the depositary&#8217;s internal accounts and records and those of any third party in the custody chain, (ii) require the depositary to maintain an independent record separate from the record maintained by the third party, and (iii) increase due diligence obligations where custody of assets is delegated to third parties outside of the EU. The changes impact Northern Trust&#8217;s subsidiaries providing depositary services to European-domiciled fund clients. 

In addition to the above, the Bank&#8217;s and the Corporation&#8217;s subsidiary banks located outside the United States are subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of December 31, 2020, each of our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements. 

Human Capital Management 

Northern Trust recognizes that our employees are critical to our success, which includes meeting clients&#8217; needs and supporting our communities. We take our search for, and retention of, top talent seriously. To attract and retain talent, we manage programs to develop a diverse pipeline of future leaders and help employees advance their careers. The discussion below outlines Northern Trust&#8217;s human capital objectives, which include talent management, compensation, and diversity, equity and inclusion. 

EMPLOYEES 

Northern Trust employed approximately 20,900 full-time equivalent staff members as of December 31, 2020. The regional breakout of our workforce is 46% North America, 35% Asia Pacific, and 19% Europe, Middle East, and Africa. 

TALENT ACQUISITION, DEVELOPMENT, AND MANAGEMENT 

Our employees are critical to our success, and represent one of our biggest assets. We pride ourselves in attracting strong talent and have identified development of diverse talent as one of our top corporate strategic priorities. Our focus on work/life balance, diversity, and career mobility also contribute to our employer brand. 

Sourcing and Recruitment. &#8239; We target our talent identification, sourcing methods,&#8239;and recruiting strategies to specific locations using several channels: job boards, colleges, professional networks, associations and online social networks. We base hiring decisions on a variety of factors including relevant experience, educational background, diversity, past accomplishments, professional licensing,&#8239;and strong evidence of integrity and ethical behavior. 

Onboarding. &#8239;Northern Trust is committed to helping all new hires succeed. New employees begin their onboarding&#8239;journey with a comprehensive learning roadmap that orients them to our company story, business, and culture.&#8239;Orientation programs also augment the&#8239;onboarding experience by providing global, regional, and/or local information along with networking activities to help connect new hires to each other and other colleagues. 

Learning and Development.&#8239; An integrated partnership between our enterprise-wide and functional learning and development teams ensure we deliver holistic training solutions. Through our online learning portal, all employees can access a curated portfolio of professional and custom training solutions specific to managers, top talent, and client-servicing staff. Our Future Focused Skills offerings prepare employees to serve our clients in a digital economy. Many of our programs are interactive, include peer networking, and offer direct access to expert facilitators.&#8239;Training is offered in self-paced, mobile, virtual and instructor-led formats. 

Talent Cultivation and Review. &#8239; Northern Trust is committed to identifying and developing a deep pipeline of diverse, top talent at all levels across the globe to meet our evolving business needs. Annually, managers conduct talent assessments, and business and regional leadership teams hold talent reviews focused on specific topics, such as workforce needs, diversity, top talent, readiness for promotion, internal movement, and succession plans. Robust talent review meetings are held with our senior management and our Board of Directors each year. 

Performance Management. Northern Trust&#8217;s annual performance management process includes goal setting, a mid-year review process, multi-rater feedback, and a year-end review. Priorities are set by our Chief Executive Officer and applied to each business, department, team and individual. Managers are encouraged to provide regular feedback and coaching to drive performance and results. 

Engagement and Recognition. Building an inclusive, connected and engaged employee culture is essential. We invite all employees to provide management with anonymous feedback about their&#8239;everyday experiences at work through an annual Employee Engagement Survey.&#8239;Survey results are thoroughly evaluated to identify strengths, progress, and opportunities.&#8239;If warranted, actions are identified and taken to further strengthen employee engagement. We also foster an &#8220;attitude of gratitude&#8221;&#8239;through our&#8239;online Celebrate Great recognition platform that allows employees to recognize one another for everyday contributions. 

TOTAL REWARDS 

Our compensation and benefit programs are designed to be market competitive and positioned around the median of the local market, enabling us to attract and retain talent needed to deliver on Northern Trust&#8217;s strategy. 

##TABLE_START 

10 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 

##TABLE_END

Compensation Programs. Our compensation programs are intended to motivate our employees to deliver the highest-quality service to our clients and achieve the greatest collective business results. They are designed, implemented and communicated to promote behaviors that are consistent with Northern Trust&#8217;s desired culture, character and our values of service, expertise, and integrity. 

Northern Trust&#8217;s base salary programs enable us to attract and retain talent by providing a competitive level of fixed pay reflecting each employee&#8217;s position, experience, qualifications and tenure. Additionally, all employees are eligible for incentive compensation to reward performance that delivers superior team or individual results. Incentive compensation is linked to both financial and non-financial performance criteria, including risk considerations, as determined by our Board of Directors and senior management. Select senior leaders and individual contributors may receive a percentage of their incentive in Northern Trust stock to encourage retention of key talent and to align rewards with company performance. 

Employee Benefits. While the exact composition of the employee benefit package varies by country, our benefit programs are designed to be locally competitive, to meet the needs of our employees and their families, and to reflect cultural values of the organization. Typical programs include retirement benefits, health care benefits, paid time off, income protection benefits such as disability and life insurance, leaves of absence, and access to our Employee Assistance Program. In recent years, we have expanded our focus on employee well-being by providing: additional programs and resources to improve wellness, manage stress, build resiliency, and be attuned to mental health issues; access to flexible or voluntary benefits; and enhancements to various parental leave offerings. 

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION (DE&#38;I) 

Northern Trust embraces diversity and recognizes the strength it brings to our employees, clients, shareholders, and local communities. We are committed to building an inclusive culture in which all individuals are welcomed, respected, supported, and valued so that they can fully participate in, and contribute to, our success. 

Embedding DE&#38;I. Our DE&#38;I vision is embedded at all levels of our organization, with women and ethnic minorities representing half of our executive officers and more than half of our Board of Directors. Our Board, through its Corporate Governance Committee, also engages in active oversight of our DE&#38;I strategies, programs, and principles. Our Head of Corporate Social Responsibility and Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion serves as an Executive Vice President, and reports directly to our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The following table presents further detail with respect to the gender and ethnic diversity of our Board of Directors and executive officers. 

TABLE 2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPRESENTATION 

##TABLE_START DECEMBER 31, 2020 FEMALE MALE WHITE BLACK HISPANIC ASIAN Board of Directors 23% 77% 61% 23% 8% 8% Executive Officers 33% 67% 83% 17% &#8212;% &#8212;% ##TABLE_END

Progress and Accountability. Tracking and measuring our DE&#38;I efforts is key to a successful strategy. We utilize a global DE&#38;I dashboard to track the organization&#8217;s progress and integrate these metrics as part of our overall corporate strategy and goals. To drive accountability for increasing diversity representation across the organization, we measure representation in relation to our hiring, retention and promotion practices. Each business unit evaluates this data, and acts as needed, to improve overall diversity within their organization. Our executive leaders report their progress through the DE&#38;I Executive Council co-chaired by our Chief Executive Officer and our Head of Corporate Social Responsibility and Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Our Global Executive DE&#38;I Council is responsible for providing strategic oversight and defining and driving accountability on the global DE&#38;I priorities. 

Available Information 

Through the Corporation&#8217;s website at www.northerntrust.com, the Corporation makes available free of charge its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all other reports and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after it files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the SEC. The contents of the Corporation&#8217;s website, the website of the SEC or any other website referenced herein are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

##TABLE_START 2020 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation 11 

##TABLE_END

