Items 2. and 3. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The following is management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) for the first quarter of 2021. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Investors also should read the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General The Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Corporate & Institutional Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “its,” or similar terms mean the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events The COVID-19 pandemic continued to present health and economic challenges during the first quarter of 2021. During this time, Northern Trust focused on the health and well-being of its workforce, meeting its clients’ needs and supporting its communities. Workforce As governments implement plans to reopen their respective jurisdictions, Northern Trust continues its return-to-office (RTO) planning under the oversight of its COVID Executive Committee composed of senior leadership across various functions. Plans for RTO have been developed on a location-by-location basis based on business unit needs. Northern Trust continues to consider site readiness, transportation options, technology capabilities, and workforce alignment, and plans for the return of a small portion of each office’s population in the initial RTO phase to allow for optimal social distancing. To ensure the health and wellbeing of Northern Trust’s workforce, clients and visitors, several social distancing elements and other protective measures, distribution of personal protective equipment, and workforce health self-certifications, have been implemented. Since the second half of 2020, several locations returned portions of their workforce to offices. Client Service Northern Trust has offered assistance to its clients affected by the COVID-19 pandemic by lending under a government lending program and providing payment deferrals. The Corporation continues to assess developments in government actions meant to support the economy, as further discussed below. U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program During the second quarter of 2020, Northern Trust became a lender under the Paycheck Protection Program, as amended (PPP), which is administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), an agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which works with financial institutions in providing loans to small businesses. The PPP, which is meant to aid small businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic, was created under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. As of March 31, 2021, Northern Trust had outstanding loans totaling $213.9 million under the PPP and 219 PPP loan forgiveness applications, totaling $34.2 million, went through the forgiveness process and were fully forgiven by the SBA as of such date. The Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits and Venues Act (the Economic Aid Act) amended the PPP by extending the authority of the SBA to guarantee loans and the ability of PPP lenders to disburse PPP loans until March 31, 2021. The PPP Extension Act of 2021, which was enacted on March 30, 2021, extends the PPP application deadline to May 31, 2021 and provides the SBA additional time to process applications through June 30, 2021. For further information on the PPP, please refer to Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). 3 FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events (continued) Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief Due to the economic environment arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been two forms of relief provided to lenders exempting certain loan modifications which would otherwise be classified as TDRs from such classification. The first of these forms of relief is provided by certain interagency guidance from various banking regulators, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Interagency Guidance). The other is provided under section 4013 of the CARES Act. Northern Trust has elected to apply each of these forms of relief, when applicable, in providing borrowers with qualifying loan modifications, including payment deferrals, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For further information on TDRs, please refer to Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Community Support COVID-19 Relief Support From the start of the pandemic through March 31, 2021, Northern Trust provided $2.6 million in COVID-19 relief support to numerous organizations serving those most affected by the pandemic. Grantees include Americares, Doctors Without Borders, Feeding America, the Global FoodBanking Network, the Irish Red Cross, Meals on Wheels, NHS Charities Together, the Solidarity Response Fund for the World Health Organization, United Way Worldwide, World Food Program, and other COVID-19 relief funds in Chicago and Illinois to benefit those in need. Small Business Support From the start of the pandemic through March 31, 2021, Northern Trust provided $110.5 million in low-cost funding to assist Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs), which are instrumental in providing loans to small businesses and non-profit organizations under the PPP. The funding helps meet urgent demand among small businesses and non-profit groups by providing flexible terms and low rates. CDFIs provide loans, investments, financial services and technical assistance to underserved populations and communities. This funding, which is reported in Debt Securities Held to Maturity on the consolidated balance sheets, is separate and distinct from the $213.9 million of outstanding principal of loans made under the PPP. Additional COVID-19 economic and market-related impacts to the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are discussed throughout this Form 10-Q. Overview of Financial Results Net Income per diluted common share increased in the current quarter to $1.70 from $1.55 in the first quarter of 2020. Net Income increased $14.5 million, or 4%, to $375.1 million in the current quarter from $360.6 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 13.7% in the current quarter and 13.4% in the prior-year quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 0.99% in the current quarter as compared to 1.17% in the prior-year quarter. Revenue slightly decreased to $1.58 billion in the current quarter from $1.59 billion in the prior-year quarter. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $60.1 million, or 6%, from $1.00 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.06 billion in the current quarter, primarily due to favorable markets, new business, and favorable currency translation, partially offset by money market mutual fund fee waivers. Other Noninterest Income increased $3.6 million, or 2%, from $176.0 million in the prior-year quarter to $179.6 million in the current quarter, primarily reflecting higher Other Operating Income, partially offset by lower Foreign Exchange Trading Income and Security Commissions and Trading Income. Net Interest Income decreased $68.0 million, or 17%, to $340.1 million in the current quarter as compared to $408.1 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a lower net interest margin, partially offset by higher average earning assets. There was a $30.0 million release of credit reserves in the current quarter, as compared to a provision of $61.0 million in the prior-year quarter. The current quarter release of credit reserves was primarily due to a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The decrease in the collective basis reserve was driven by continued improvement in projected economic conditions and portfolio credit quality relative to the prior quarter, with decreases primarily in the commercial and institutional, commercial real estate, and private client portfolios. Noninterest Expense increased $51.9 million, or 5%, from $1.07 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.12 billion in the current quarter, primarily attributable to higher Compensation, Equipment and Software, and Other Operating Expense. The Provision for Income Taxes in the current quarter totaled $120.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.4%. The Provision for Income Taxes in the prior-year quarter totaled $100.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 21.8%. The effective tax rate increased compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to lower tax benefits related to share-based compensation. 4 FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. Low-interest-rate environments have historically had a negative impact on fees earned on certain products. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, the Corporation began to waive a portion of certain fees associated with money market mutual funds due to the lowinterest-rate environment. Northern Trust voluntarily waived $50.2 million of money market mutual fund fees for the three months ended March 31, 2021 related to the low-interest-rate environment. These fee waivers, which are impacted by the level of yields earned and account balances in certain funds, are expected to continue in the current low-interest-rate environment as the yields in these funds remain insufficient to pay the stated fees associated with such funds. This is expected to adversely impact Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees within the C&IS and Wealth Management reporting segments. The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided below. Net Interest Income Net Interest Income is defined as the total of Interest Income and amortized fees on earning assets, less Interest Expense on deposits and borrowed funds, adjusted for the impact of interest-related hedging activity. Earning assets—including Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell, Interest-Bearing Due From Banks, Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits and Other, Securities, and Loans and Leases—are financed by a large base of interest-bearing funds that include client deposits, short-term borrowings, Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt. Short-term borrowings include Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. Earning assets are also funded by noninterest-related funds, which include demand deposits and stockholders’ equity. Net Interest Income is subject to variations in the level and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing funds and their relative sensitivity to interest rates. In addition, the levels of nonaccruing assets and client compensating deposit balances used to pay for services impact Net Interest Income. Net interest margin is the difference between what we earn on our assets and what we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net Interest Income by average interest-earning assets. Net Interest Income stated on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that facilitates the analysis of asset yields. Management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest margins for comparative purposes. When adjusted to an FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable, and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. A reconciliation of Net Interest Income on a GAAP basis to Net Interest Income on an FTE basis is provided on page 25. 9 FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) The following tables present an analysis of average daily balances and interest rates affecting Net Interest Income and an analysis of Net Interest Income changes. Net Interest Income, stated on a FTE basis, decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a lower net interest margin, partially offset by higher average earning assets. Average earning assets increased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher levels of short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks, securities, and loans. Funding of the balance sheet reflected higher levels of client deposits. The net interest margin on an FTE basis decreased from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower interest rates and a balance sheet mix shift. Low levels of market interest rates are expected to continue to impact our net interest income. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits and Other averaged $37.1 billion and increased $17.3 billion, or 87%, from $19.8 billion in the prior-year quarter, resulting from significant deposit inflows. The higher level of client deposits were primarily placed with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and in the securities portfolio. Average Securities were $61.2 billion and increased $9.2 billion, or 18%, from $52.0 billion, in the prior-year quarter and include certain community development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and Federal Reserve stock of $911.8 million, $196.6 million and $70.0 million, respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Average taxable Securities were $57.5 billion in the current quarter and $46.3 billion in the prior-year quarter. Average nontaxable Securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $3.7 billion in the current quarter (1) (1) 11 FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Net Interest Income (continued) and $5.7 billion in the prior-year quarter. Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks averaged $6.5 billion in the current quarter and $5.8 billion in the prior-year quarter. Loans and Leases averaged $34.2 billion and increased $1.9 billion, or 6%, from $32.3 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher levels of private client, commercial real estate, commercial and institutional, and non-U.S. loans. Private client loans averaged $11.8 billion and increased $821.7 million, or 7%, from $11.0 billion for the prior-year quarter. Commercial real estate loans averaged $3.7 billion and increased $591.7 million, or 19%, from $3.1 billion for the prior-year quarter. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $9.9 billion and increased $348.0 million, or 4%, from $9.5 billion for the prior-year quarter. Non-U.S. loans averaged $2.3 billion and increased $225.0 million or 11%, from $2.1 billion for the prior-year quarter. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.1 billion for both the current quarter and the prior-year quarter. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits increased $20.2 billion, or 27%, to an average of $96.0 billion in the current quarter from $75.8 billion in the prior-year quarter. Other Average Interest-Related Funds decreased $4.1 billion, or 30%, to an average of $9.7 billion in the current quarter from $13.8 billion in the prior-year quarter. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Average net noninterest-related funds increased $13.8 billion, or 66%, to $34.9 billion in the current quarter from $21.1 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily resulting from higher levels of Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing Deposits. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current quarter was driven by low and negative interest rates for Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits and low interest rates on domestic Interest-Bearing Deposits. Average Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits comprised 71% of total average Interest-Bearing Deposits for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Provision for Credit Losses There was a $30.0 million release of credit reserves in the current quarter, as compared to a provision of $61.0 million in the prior-year quarter. The release of credit reserves in the current quarter was primarily due to a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The decrease in the collective basis reserve was driven by continued improvement in projected economic conditions and portfolio credit quality relative to the prior quarter, with decreases primarily in the commercial and institutional, commercial real estate, and private client portfolios. The provision in the prior-year quarter was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by the current and projected economic conditions at the time resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts, with the largest increase in the commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. In addition, a $13.7 million increase in the allowance for credit losses, with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings of $10.1 million, net of income taxes, was recorded on January 1, 2020 upon adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments - Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” Net recoveries in the current quarter were $0.9 million, resulting from charge-offs of $0.4 million and recoveries of $1.3 million. The prior-year quarter included $0.7 million of net charge-offs, reflecting $1.8 million of charge-offs and $1.1 million of recoveries. Nonaccrual assets of $125.3 million increased $19.8 million, or 19%, from $105.5 million at the end of the prior-year quarter. Residential real estate, commercial real estate, commercial and institutional, and private client loans accounted for 48%, 33%, 17%, and 2%, respectively, of total nonaccrual loans and leases at March 31, 2021. Residential real estate, commercial and institutional, and commercial real estate loans accounted for 65%, 32%, and 3%, respectively, of total nonaccrual loans and leases at March 31, 2020. For additional discussion of the allowance for credit losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section beginning on page 17. Corporate & Institutional Services C&IS Net Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Net Income decreased $19.5 million, or 11%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher noninterest expense and lower net interest income, partially offset by higher noninterest income and a release of credit reserves. C&IS Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of C&IS Trust, Investment, and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. C&IS Foreign Exchange Trading Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Foreign Exchange Trading Income decreased $10.6 million, or 12%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower client volumes and decreased market volatility. C&IS Other Noninterest Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Other Noninterest Income increased $18.5 million, or 44%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a market value adjustment for a seed capital investment in the prior year. C&IS Net Interest Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis decreased $50.6 million, or 24%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting a lower net interest margin driven by declining short-term interest rates, partially offset by higher earning asset levels funded by higher deposit balances. Average earning assets increased $27.2 billion to $109.0 billion in the current quarter from $81.7 billion in the prior-year quarter. The earning assets and funding sources in C&IS for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 consisted primarily of intercompany assets and of loans and non-U.S. custody-related interest-bearing deposits, respectively. (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) 14 REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Corporate & Institutional Services (continued) C&IS Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, there was a $5.4 million release of credit reserves compared with a $25.7 million provision for credit losses from the prior-year quarter. The release of credit reserves for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by continued improvement in projected economic conditions and portfolio credit quality, specifically impacting the commercial and institutional portfolio. C&IS Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $53.8 million, or 8%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher expense allocations, Other Operating Expense and Compensation. Wealth Management Wealth Management Net Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Net Income increased $30.9 million, or 16%, from the prior-year quarter primarily due to a release of credit reserves and higher Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, partially offset by lower Net Interest Income, higher Provision for Income Taxes and higher Noninterest Expense. Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. Wealth Management Net Interest Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis decreased $18.9 million, or 9%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting lower interest rates, partially offset by higher net interest allocations and higher deposit and loan balances. Average earning assets increased $2.7 billion to $31.6 billion in the current quarter from $28.9 billion in the prior-year quarter. Earning assets and funding sources for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 were primarily comprised of loans and domestic interest-bearing deposits, respectively. Wealth Management Provision for Credit Losses For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, there was a $24.6 million release of credit reserves compared with a $35.3 million provision for credit losses from the prior-year quarter. The release of credit reserves for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by continued improvement in projected economic conditions and portfolio credit quality, primarily impacting the commercial real estate, commercial and institutional, and private client portfolios. Wealth Management Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $8.7 million or 2% from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher expense allocations. Other Other Noninterest Income For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Other Noninterest Income decreased $6.5 million from the prior-year quarter due to higher expenses for existing swap agreements related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares. Other Noninterest Expense For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Other Noninterest Expense decreased $10.6 million or 89.1% from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to higher Compensation expense from the one-time supplemental payment to employees in response to the COVID-19 pandemic recorded in the prior-year quarter. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $68.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to period earnings, the impact of lower non-cash charges such as amortization and net changes in other operating activities, partially offset by higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties. Net cash used in operating activities of $2.7 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties, partially offset by net changes in other operating activities and period earnings. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $5.1 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to decreased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits, partially offset by net purchases of debt securities available for sale, client security settlement receivables, and interest-bearing deposits with banks. Net cash used in investing activities of $21.5 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to increased levels of Federal Reserve and other central bank deposits, higher levels of loans and leases, and client security settlement receivables. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $4.9 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to the decreased levels of total deposits, partially offset by increased levels of short-term borrowings. The decrease in total deposits was primarily attributable to lower levels of interestbearing non-U.S. office client deposits and savings, money market and other interest-bearing deposits, partially offset by increased non-U.S. and domestic noninterest-bearing deposits. Net cash provided by financing activities of $25.7 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to increased levels of total deposits and federal funds purchased, partially offset by decreased levels of short-term borrowings and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and the redemption by the Corporation of the Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock. The increase in total deposits was primarily attributable to higher levels of interest-bearing non-U.S. office client deposits, domestic noninterest-bearing deposits, and savings, money market and other interest-bearing deposits. 21 CAPITAL RATIOS The capital ratios of Northern Trust Corporation and its principal subsidiary, The Northern Trust Company, remained strong at March 31, 2021, exceeding the requirements for classification as “well-capitalized” under applicable U.S. regulatory requirements. As a result of the stress test results published by the Federal Reserve on June 25, 2020, Northern Trust’s stress capital buffer requirement for the 2020 Capital Plan cycle was set at 2.5%. The 2020 stress capital buffer became effective October 1, 2020, and results in an effective common equity tier 1 capital ratio minimum requirement of 7.0% inclusive of this buffer. The table below provides capital ratios, as well as the required minimum capital ratios, for Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company determined by Basel III phased-in requirements. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS There are no accounting pronouncements and developments issued but not yet effective as of March 31, 2021 that are expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or results of operations. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk associated with the assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and trading risk. Interest rate risk associated with the assets and liabilities on the balance sheet is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in net interest income and the market value of equity. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to cause changes in the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE) sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with a long-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. (1) (1) (1) 22 MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a Value-atRisk (VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rate swaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e., change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. These assumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity given uncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similar terms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a more conservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analytics system that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgage analytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availability of historical data and current pricing strategies or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point ramps upward and 100 basis point ramp downward movements in interest rates relative to forward rates. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.” Forward-looking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results and outlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; future pension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; and expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectations of future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based on assumptions about many important factors, including: • the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic—and governmental and societal responses thereto—on Northern Trust’s business, financial condition, and results of operations; • financial market disruptions or economic recession in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a number of factors; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets in general, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respect to which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arising from all such changes and volatility; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, particularly asset-backed securities, the liquidity and pricing of which may be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cybersecurity, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuation of securities, fraud, systems performance or defects, systems interruptions, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust’s success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor; • changes in the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the calculation of alternative interest rate benchmarks; • the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust; • increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatory emphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital; • changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect Northern Trust or its clients; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as pandemics, natural disasters, terrorist events and war, and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” and any negative effects thereof on global economic conditions, global financial markets, and our business and results of operations; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; 26 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products; • the effectiveness of Northern Trust’s management of its human capital, including its success in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise to support increasingly complex products and services; • Northern Trust’s success in implementing its expense management initiatives; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns and payouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, including credit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory process, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary; • the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and • other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, including those factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the date of that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.