Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., with all headers, footers, and metadata removed:

```
```
          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to offer
          banking services for merchants, vendors................................................................................................................. 4
                                                                                  
          Goldman Tech Guru Jumps to Dell's Firm ............................................................................................................... 7
                                                                                  
          Goldman Sachs Adds Polish to Trading................................................................................................................... 8

          FINANCE                                                                 
          Goldman Sachs May Move Unit From New York to Florida                    
          Goldman Sachs is one of Wall Street's best-known firms, its identity indelibly tied to New York. Yet it may
          move at least some parts of a major division to Florida.                
                                                                                  
          The bank is exploring moving at least part of its asset management unit, according to a person with direct
          knowledge who wasn't authorized to speak on the record. Bloomberg News reported on Sunday that
          Goldman executives had scouted office locations and spoken with officials in Florida.
          It isn't clear how much of the asset management business, which generates about $8 billion in annual
          revenue, might move. And the firm may ultimately choose a different location -- or not move at all.
          Saving money is a factor in the deliberations. In January, Goldman identified its real estate footprint as a
          target in its $1.3 billion cost-cutting campaign.                       
                                                                                  
          Florida is particularly popular for the financial industry. The lifestyle there appeals to some financial
          high-rollers, who can keep East Coast hours while benefiting from warmer weather, palatial homes near the
          beach and no state income tax.                                          
          Goldman's potential move may become a political talking point, as New York faces a budget shortfall because
          of the pandemic. Any potential loss in taxes is sure to play a part in the mayoral race that kicks into high gear
          next year.                                                                                  

          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to
          offer banking services for merchants, vendors                           
          Stripe Inc. is teaming up with banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. to offer checking
          accounts and other business-banking services, the startup's latest attempt to become the internet's financial
          supermarket.                                                            
          Stripe, which processes payments for millions of online businesses and e-commerce platforms, will soon give
          its customers the option of offering insured, interest-bearing bank accounts, debit cards and other
          cash-management services.                                               
          These products aren't meant for consumers. Rather, they are designed for the merchants and vendors that
          do business with Stripe's customers.                                    
          Among the early adopters of Stripe's new banking services is Shopify Inc., which, starting early next year, will
          offer Shopify Balance accounts to many of the hundreds of thousands of merchants that use its software.
          Shopify Balance accounts will be held at Memphis, Tenn.-based Evolve Bancorp Inc., but Stripe is also
          teaming up with Goldman in the U.S. and with Citigroup and Barclays PLC internationally to store and move
          customer funds.                                                         
                                                                                  
          "For the partner banks we're working with, our intent for it is to be a shockingly effective customer-acquisition
          channel for them where they end up with many, many more customers," said John Collison, Stripe's
          co-founder and president.                                                                                  

          Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp. were two of the biggest contributors to the blue-chip index's latest 10,000-point
          milestone, a journey that took nearly four years. But it was a November rally in lagging cyclical stocks
          including Boeing Co., Honeywell International Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that helped push the
          30-stock index over the hump.                                           
                                                                                  
          Boeing, Honeywell and Goldman have each risen at least 25% this month, powering the Dow to new records.
          "A very important 2021 narrative is going to be recovery and reflation," said Yousef Abbasi, global market
          strategist at StoneX Group, referring to economic expansion that is aided by stimulus programs. "It tees up a
          potential rotation away from a sector that has carried this market."                                                                                  

          Goldman Tech Guru Jumps to Dell's Firm                                  
          Gregg Lemkau, one of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s top deal makers, is leaving to run the investment firm
          started by technology tycoon Michael Dell.                              
          The move, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, turned heads inside the firm and across the industry. Mr.
          Lemkau ran one of Goldman's most profitable divisions after a long career putting together technology,
          media and health-care mergers, and was seen as a potential contender to be chief executive of the firm.
          He will be chief executive of MSD Partners, which manages about $15 billion including some of Mr. Dell's
          fortune and has plans to grow.                                          
          The 51-year-old joined Goldman in 1992 and spent his career as a counselor to big technology and media
          companies including Twitter Inc. and Uber Technologies Inc. He was named in 2013 a co-head of its merger
          business and promoted again in 2017 to co-run its investment-banking arm, which includes M&A, IPOs and
          lending deals. A former Dartmouth soccer goalie, he remains a sports nut -- he and Goldman's president,
          John Waldron, share a box at Fenway Park -- and is well-liked on Wall Street.
          Though he had been seen as a potential candidate to be CEO, the bid was a long-shot one -- current CEO
          David Solomon is just two years into the job -- and Mr. Lemkau has flirted with jobs in private equity over the
          years. He informed Mr. Solomon of his decision over the summer, according to people familiar with the
          matter, and stayed on through Goldman's selection of new partners, who were named last week.
          He knows Mr. Dell well, having advised on a decade's worth of deals that took his eponymous computer
          company, merged it with rival EMC Corp., and returned it to the public markets two years ago.
                                                                                  
          Mr. Lemkau's departure means that for the first time in years Goldman doesn't have an M&A guru running its
          investment bank. He will be succeeded by Jim Esposito, a former investment banker who in 2018 was tapped
          to help turn around Goldman's trading division. Mr. Esposito will remain, for now, based in London; his
          co-head, Dan Dees, is based in California.                                                                                  

          Heard on the Street                                                     
          Goldman Sachs Adds Polish to Trading                                    
          When it comes to Wall Street trading, Goldman Sachs Group is doing more with less.
          Another big quarter for trading desks across Wall Street was good at Goldman Sachs, too, with trading
          revenue up 29% from a year earlier. Often though, investors discount this kind of outperformance. Not only
          can trading results vary greatly quarter to quarter, but successful trades can be built on a surge in risky
          assets and balance-sheet consumption that depresses a bank's ultimate return on equity.
          This doesn't appear to be what is happening right now at Goldman. The firm has been trending toward more
          efficient production of markets revenue, and it made a big leap this quarter. Net earnings from markets were
          up 130% from a year earlier, even though the business had only 3% more equity capital allocated to it.
          Compared with the second quarter, capital allocated to the business actually fell slightly. This helped improve
          the annualized return on equity for global markets to nearly 20%, up more than 11 percentage points from a
          year earlier.                                                           
          Helping drive this is a shift of revenue within trading from financing -- lending to clients to boost their returns --
          to intermediation, or pairing up buyers and sellers, which uses less capital. This is also the fruit of investment
          in technology to quickly execute trades.                                
          In the third quarter, fixed-income intermediation revenue rose 65% year over year, but financing revenue fell
          9%. Equities trading moved in the same direction. Trading "was really done with an eye toward high velocity
          turn on the balance sheet," Stephen Scherr, chief financial officer, told analysts on Wednesday.
          A less-exposed trading business can also help the bank's stress-test results, which in turn can free up more
          capital for future buybacks or acquisitions. Mr. Scherr said the bank was "in a good position" with its
          submission for the Federal Reserve's special continuing exam.           
          More durable earnings and better stress-test results are also big reasons why Goldman, and Morgan Stanley,
          are pushing further into investment management and consumer financial services. Goldman's stock is still
          priced at a discount under 10 times forward earnings, according to FactSet, compared with S&P 500 banks
          overall at 12 times. More quarters like this could help narrow that.    
```
```