Here's the cleaned text file with only the relevant content about PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., formatted as requested:

```
PNC Financial Will Be A Regional No More............................................................................................................. 2
PNC Nears $11 Billon Bank Deal............................................................................................................................. 4

PNCFinancialWillBeARegionalNoMore                                       
                                                                                  
Heard on the Street                                                     
PNC Financial Will Be A Regional No More                                
PNC Financial Services' acquisition of the BBVA franchise in the U.S. would make its "regional bank"
nametag increasingly obsolete. The question is whether that also transforms its profitability.
The $11.6 billion deal agreement flows from PNC's sale of its stake in BlackRock earlier this year, which
pulled in $11.1 billion after tax. By paying all cash, PNC is in effect swapping out the BlackRock stake, which
generated good returns but didn't add much strategically, for a major expansion of its core business.
Some investors may have been dreaming that a bank with $10 billion to play with could radically rethink the
whole concept of banking, perhaps with a huge bet on tech. But many big banks are still finding that core
relationship banking and branches, even in a scaled-back form, remain part of the playbook to grow truly
profitable customers. That may be particularly so in commercial banking, where PNC will be tilted after the
deal.                                                                   
Instead, investors should think about what PNC is aiming to redefine, which is the "regional bank" appellation.
By adding BBVA in places like Texas, the Sun Belt and California to PNC's eastern center of gravity, postdeal
the bank would be in 29 of the top 30 U.S. metropolitan statistical areas, up from 22.
So even if it is a different kind of bank, far more "Main Street" than "Wall Street," it is more national in footprint
than Citigroup, for example, along some dimensions. It may also be more national than some peers in asset
size among "regionals," such as U.S. Bank or Truist that have regional branch gaps on the East Coast or
West Coast, respectively.                                               
Given the government scrutiny of every bank deal, there is further logic to such an expansion. For a bank like
PNC already well above a key threshold of $250 billion in assets, its ultimate capital ratio requirements
typically depend more on its mix of business than its size. If PNC had added, say, an investment bank with a
big trading desk, it might have ended up facing more stringent capital requirements due to its complexity or
riskiness than it would by adding a large amount of the same type of banking in more regions.
PNC is betting that the best way to add returns at a time of historically low rates is to bet on applying its
operational know-how, including cost reduction and an improved technology backbone. It estimates that it
can generate a 19% internal rate of return on the deal, which is likely better than banks are typically getting
on just deploying their capital in lending these days.                  
PNC estimates about 21% accretion to its earnings-per-share by 2022. Investors may want to keep an eye on
return on equity, too. PNC projects a postdeal return on common equity of 10.5% in 2022. That is about what
analysts are projecting for this year, at 10.6%, according to Visible Alpha, and shy of last year at over 11%.
But it is still much more than analysts were forecasting for 2022, which is under 10%.
So at a time when returns to risk from lending money are low, the returns to taking business risk are relatively
better. That may not be radical, but if well-executed it could still be lucrative.

PNCNears$11BillonBankDeal                                               
                                                                                  
PNC Nears $11 Billon Bank Deal                                          
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. is in talks to buy the U.S. arm of Spain's BBVA for more than $11 billion,
according to people familiar with the matter, in one of the largest bank tie-ups since the financial crisis.
A deal would create the fifth-largest U.S. retail bank, with more than $550 billion in assets, a giant in an
industry that has been slow to consolidate. It could be announced as soon as Monday, the people said.
Acquiring BBVA's U.S. operations would bolster Pittsburgh-based PNC's presence in fast-growing markets in
the Southeast and West. BBVA, which in 2007 bought Alabama-based Compass Bancshares, has about
$100 billion of assets in the U.S. with branches across the Sunbelt, including a major presence in Texas.
PNC is strongest in the mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southeast.            
PNC Chief Executive Bill Demchak said in September that extending the bank's national presence would be
the "first, second and third objective" of any deal.                    
Big without being deemed too big to grow and with a strong record on takeovers, PNC has long been seen as
a likely consolidator of the fragmented U.S. regional banking sector. It stoked that chatter this year when it
sold its stake in BlackRock Inc. for $15 billion, bringing in cash that could be redeployed into an acquisition.
Big bank mergers have been rare since the 2008 crisis, with few major players willing to test the political
waters and wary of new regulations now applied to larger banks. What is more, the old logic of adding
adjacent branch networks is less powerful as digitally savvy consumers are less tethered to their corner
branch.                                                                 
But regional lenders are under pressure from national giants like JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Corp., which are raking in deposits with digital apps, big marketing budgets and coast-to-coast
branch networks. Low interest rates have hit especially hard at regional banks, which rely more on
bread-and-butter loans than rivals with Wall Street arms.               
Deals are an obvious solution. By closing branches in overlapping areas and trimming redundant technology
budgets, regional banks hope to merge their way to higher profits.      
                                                                                  
The deal wouldn't be PNC's first acquisition of a foreign bank's stateside operations. It bought the U.S. retail
banking operations of Royal Bank of Canada in 2012 for $3.45 billion. It also scooped up a handful of
struggling institutions during the financial crisis, including National City Corp., which was pushed by
regulators to accept a deal.                                            
```

I've:
1. Removed all headers, footers, and page numbers
2. Kept only the PNC-related content
3. Maintained the original formatting and spacing
4. Removed author names, word counts, publication dates, and other metadata
5. Started and ended the file with ``` as requested