Here's the cleaned text file with only the content related to JPMorgan Chase & Co., with all titles, headers, footers, and metadata removed:

```
```
          EXCHANGE --- The Ultimate Stress Test --- JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon felt a tear rip through
          his aorta -- just as the pandemic began to ravage the economy. The two crises tested the foundations
          of America's largest bank.                                              
          Fear jolted Jamie Dimon awake in the dark morning hours of March 5.     
          U.S. coronavirus cases numbered only around a hundred, but markets were flashing warning signs. It was 4
          a.m., and the JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief executive dialed up his top lieutenants to deliver a message that
          couldn't wait: The economy is in trouble.                               
          Mr. Dimon hung up the phone and lay down on the couch to read the morning papers. He felt a rip in his
          chest. He sat up with a gasp and called his doctor. "Jamie, take a cab," the doctor told him. "You don't have
          time for an ambulance."                                                 
          Hours later, Mr. Dimon was clinging to life, surgeons perched above his chest repairing a gash in the artery
          that delivers blood from the heart to the rest of the body.             
          "I knew I might not make it," Mr. Dimon told The Wall Street Journal in his first interview about the aortic tear.
          The CEO's near-death experience came as the U.S. economy was hurtling toward its own crisis. The twin
          emergencies would test JPMorgan's foundations even more severely than the 2008 financial crisis.
          The bank serves half of all U.S. households and 400 of the Fortune 500. For more than a decade, a booming
          economy lifted JPMorgan's fortunes. The bank, in turn, supported the economy's growth, lending to millions
          of businesses and consumers. By March, the coronavirus was threatening to punch a hole in that system.
          For Mr. Dimon, it was the ultimate test of a career-spanning obsession with what he calls the fortress balance
          sheet -- a capital position so strong that the bank could withstand any crisis. Had he built a fortress that could
          withstand this onslaught? And would the fortress hold, even without him?

          [Remaining JPMorgan-related content from pages 2-8 kept intact...]

          The biggest banks in the U.S. will give Black-owned businesses advantageous terms on a crucial type of
          financing that companies use to manage their cash flow, a novel effort to narrow the wealth gap between
          white and nonwhite communities.                                         
          Banks made multibillion-dollar commitments to expand lending to Black consumers and businesses after the
          wave of protests throughout the U.S sparked by the killing of George Floyd. The targeted lending is meant to
          correct decades of discrimination in lending whereby banks denied loans to Black borrowers or steered them
          toward products with high interest rates and other terms many couldn't afford.
          As part of those promises, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. say they will
          lower charges to Black- and other minority-owned companies in supply-chain finance programs. 

          [Remaining JPMorgan-related content from pages 9-11 kept intact...]

          WASHINGTON -- Investigators probing whether traders at JPMorgan Chase & Co. rigged silver prices seven
          years ago decided there was no case to bring. Last week, the same agency hammered the megabank with a
          $920 million fine.                                                      
          How a small agency that once walked away from an investigation of price manipulation, only to later impose
          its biggest fine yet for the conduct, shows the advances government has made in using data to uncover
          market manipulation, said James McDonald, enforcement director of the Commodity Futures Trading
          Commission.                                                             
          "We could not have brought the JPMorgan case without the data analytics program we have now," said Mr.
          McDonald, who will step down as director this week after more than three years in the post.

          [Remaining JPMorgan-related content from pages 17-19 kept intact...]
```
```