 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Ameriprise is a diversified financial services company with a 125-year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware that primarily engages in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, references to &#8220;Ameriprise,&#8221; &#8220;Ameriprise Financial,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York City. 

We are a long-standing leader in financial planning and advice with $973 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2019. We offer a broad range of products and services designed to achieve individual and institutional clients&#8217; financial objectives. Our strategy is centered on helping our clients confidently achieve their goals by providing holistic advice and by managing and protecting their assets and income. We utilize two go-to-market approaches in carrying out this strategy: Wealth Management and Asset Management. 

Wealth Management 

We are an industry-leading wealth manager with a differentiated advice value proposition. Our network of approximately 10,000 advisors is the primary means through which we engage in our wealth management activities. Accordingly, our wealth management capabilities are centered on the long-term, personal relationships between our clients and our financial advisors (our &#8220;advisors&#8221;). Through our affiliated advisors, we offer financial planning and advice, as well as banking and full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients. These products and services are designed to be used as solutions for our clients&#8217; cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. The financial product solutions we offer through our advisors include the products of other companies as well as our own products and services. Our advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our own life and disability income insurance as well as annuity products and services. Our focus on personal relationships, as demonstrated by our exclusive Confident Retirement &#174; approach to financial planning, allows us to address our clients&#8217; evolving financial and retirement-related needs to help them live brilliantly, now and in the future. Over the years of responding to the needs of our clients and executing on our business strategy, we moved our target upmarket. Currently, our primary target market segment is the mass affluent and affluent (which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000), and increasingly those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. 

Our advisors are a valued and crucial part of our business. As such, we offer our advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in serving their clients. Our nationally recognized brand combined with our practice support, local marketing and field support, integrated operating platform, practice expansion and succession opportunities and comprehensive set of products and solutions creates a compelling value proposition for financial advisors. This is evidenced by our strong advisor retention rate and our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We continuously invest in, develop, and refine capabilities and tools designed to maximize advisor productivity and client satisfaction. 

We are in a compelling position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends driving increased demand for financial advice and solutions. In the U.S., the ongoing transition of baby boomers into retirement continues to drive demand for financial advice and solutions. In addition, the amount of investable assets held by mass affluent and affluent households (our target market) has grown and now accounts for over half of U.S. investable assets. We believe our differentiated financial planning model, broad range of products and solutions, and demonstrated financial strength throughout times of economic and market uncertainty position us to capitalize on these trends and best serve our clients in achieving their goals. 

Asset Management 

Our asset management capabilities, represented by the Columbia Threadneedle Investments &#174; brand, are global in scale. We offer a broad spectrum of investment advice and products to individual, institutional and high-net worth investors. These investment products are primarily provided through third parties, though we also provide our asset management products through our advisor network. Our underlying asset management philosophy is rooted in delivering consistently strong, competitive investment performance. The quality and breadth of our asset management capabilities are demonstrated by 116 of our mutual funds being rated as four- and five-star funds by Morningstar. This strong short and long-term investment performance is further supported by our client-focused approach. 

We are positioned to continue to grow our assets under management in the long-term and strengthen our asset management offerings to existing and new clients. We enjoy a significant benefit from key strategic relationships and have a strong institutional presence. Our asset management capabilities are well positioned to address mature markets in the U.S. and Europe. We also continue to leverage our existing strengths in order to effectively expand into new global and emerging markets. In the past few years, we have expanded beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and UK to gather assets in Continental Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, South America and Africa. In addition, we continue to identify and pursue opportunities to leverage the collective capabilities of our global asset management business in order to enhance our current range of investment solutions, to develop new solutions and investment management strategies that are responsive to client demand in an increasingly complex marketplace, and to maximize the distribution capabilities of our global business. 

&#160; 3 

Our Integrated Model and Shift in Business Mix 

Financial markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our operating and performance results. In addition, the business, political and regulatory environments in which we operate are subject to elevated uncertainty and substantial, frequent change. Accordingly, we expect to continue focusing on our key strategic objectives and obtaining operational and strategic leverage from our core capabilities. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; - and other factors as discussed herein. 

The financial results from the businesses underlying our go-to-market approaches are reflected in our five operating segments: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Advice &#38; Wealth Management; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Asset Management; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Annuities; 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Protection; and 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Corporate &#38; Other. 

##TABLE_END We believe we offer a compelling and highly differentiated value proposition through our diversified and fully integrated model - as shown by nearly doubling earnings per share in the past five years and returning nearly $11 billion to shareholders in that timeframe, while retaining significant excess capital at December 31, 2019. 

As a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather assets is best measured by our aggregate assets under management and administration metric. At December 31, 2019, we had $973 billion in assets under management and administration compared to $823 billion as of December 31, 2018. For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160; 4 

The following chart shows our current business mix represented by the contributions of each segment to our pretax adjusted operating earnings (excluding Corporate &#38; Other segment) as well as a historical comparison. As you can see, we continue to execute on our strategy to shift our business mix toward lower capital, fee-based business including Advice &#38; Wealth Management, which is the growth engine of Ameriprise and now represents a majority of pretax adjusted operated earnings. 

Our Principal Brands 

We utilize multiple and distinct brands for the products and services because we believe doing so allows us to differentiate them in the marketplace. 

##TABLE_START 

We use the Ameriprise Financial &#174; brand as our enterprise brand, as well as the name of our advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. The retail products and services that use the Ameriprise Financial brand include those that we provide through our advisors (e.g., financial planning services, investment advisory accounts, retail brokerage services and banking products) and products and services that we market directly to consumers or through affinity groups. 

Our global Columbia Threadneedle Investments &#174; brand represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management and Threadneedle. This brand reinforces the strength of both firms in their established markets of the UK, Europe and the U.S. and helps us grow our presence in key markets including Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. 

We use our RiverSource &#174; brand for our annuity and protection products issued by the RiverSource Life companies, including our life and disability income insurance products. 

##TABLE_END

History and Development 

Our company has a 125 year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express&#8217; acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation in 1984. We changed our name to &#8220;American Express Financial Corporation&#8221; (&#8220;AEFC&#8221;) and began marketing our products and services under the American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we significantly expanded our offering of non-proprietary mutual funds in the late 1990s. In addition, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings in 2003 to enhance our global asset management capabilities. 

On September 30, 2005, American Express consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders, at which time we became an independent, publicly traded company and changed our name to &#8220;Ameriprise Financial, Inc.&#8221; In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&#38;R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. and J. &#38; W. Seligman &#38; Co. Incorporated. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset management business of Columbia Management from Bank of America. In 2016, we completed the acquisition of Emerging Global Advisors, LLC, a registered investment advisor and provider of strategic beta portfolios based on emerging markets. In 2017, we acquired Investment Professionals, Inc. (&#8220;IPI&#8221;), an independent broker-dealer specializing in the on-site delivery of investment programs for financial institutions, including banks and credit unions. In 2017, we also acquired Lionstone 

&#160; 5 

Partners, LLC, a leading national real estate investment firm, specializing in investment strategies based upon proprietary analytics. This inorganic growth has allowed us to significantly enhance the scale, performance, and product offerings of our brokerage, financial planning, retail mutual funds and institutional asset management business in order to best serve our clients. 

In 2006, we sold our large-scale retirement plan recordkeeping business to Wachovia Bank, N.A. (now Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.). We initiated the disposition of our institutional trust and custody business to J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. in 2008, and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2011, we completed the sale of Securities America Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc. On October 1, 2019, we completed the sale of our Ameriprise Auto and Home Insurance business to American Family Insurance Mutual Holding Company (American Family Insurance). 

In 2018, we made the strategic decision to seek to expand the banking products and services we can provide directly to our clients, and commenced the process to convert our subsidiary Ameriprise National Trust Bank into a federal savings bank with the capabilities to offer FDIC insured deposits and a range of lending products. We completed that process, received regulatory approvals and converted Ameriprise National Trust Bank to Ameriprise Bank, FSB in May 2019, at which time Ameriprise Financial became a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;). In connection with the conversion, Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to applicable regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (as amended). 

Our Organization 

The following is a depiction of the organizational structure for our company and the primary subsidiaries (identified by their current legal entity names) through which we operate our businesses. 

The following is a brief description of the business and activities conducted by each subsidiary noted above. 

##TABLE_START Subsidiary Name 

Description of Business 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Ameriprise International Holdings GmbH 

A holding company based in Switzerland for various companies engaged in our non-U.S. business, including our Threadneedle group of companies (defined below) 

Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings S&#224;rl 

A holding company based in Luxembourg for the EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services 

Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings GmbH 

A holding company based in Switzerland for our non-EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services. We refer to the group of companies in this entity and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl as &#8220;Threadneedle&#8221; and Threadneedle is our primary provider of non-U.S. investment management products and services. 

Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (&#8220;Columbia Management&#8221;) 

The investment adviser for the majority of the Columbia Management family of funds (&#8220; Columbia Management &#174; funds&#8221;) and to U.S. and non-U.S. institutional accounts and private funds 

##TABLE_END

&#160; 6 

##TABLE_START J. &#38; W. Seligman &#38; Co. Incorporated (&#8220;Seligman&#8221;) 

A holding company for Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. and certain other subsidiaries within our Asset Management segment 

Lionstone Partners, LLC (&#8220;Lionstone Investments&#8221;) 

The U.S. investment adviser for certain private funds and investment products focused on real estate 

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. 

Broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor for Columbia Management funds 

Columbia Management Investment Services Corp. 

A transfer agent that processes client transactions for Columbia Management funds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates 

AMPF Holding Corporation 

A holding company for certain of our retail brokerage and advisory subsidiaries, including AFS (defined below) and AEIS (defined below) 

American Enterprise Investment Services Inc. (&#8220;AEIS&#8221;) 

As our registered clearing broker-dealer subsidiary, brokerage transactions for accounts introduced by AFS are executed, cleared and settled through AEIS 

Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC &#160;(&#8220;AFS&#8221;) 

A registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, and our primary financial planning and retail distribution subsidiary (previously Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. until January 2020) 

RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (&#8220;RiverSource Distributors&#8221;) 

A broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource annuities and insurance products sold through AFS and third-party channels 

RiverSource Life Insurance Company (&#8220;RiverSource Life&#8221;) 

Conducts its insurance and annuity business in states other than New York 

RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York (&#8220;RiverSource Life of NY&#8221;) 

Conducts its insurance and annuity businesses in the State of New York. 

RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the &#8220;RiverSource Life companies&#8221; 

Ameriprise Certificate Company 

Issues a variety of face-amount certificates 

Ameriprise Trust Company &#160;(&#8220;ATC&#8221;) 

Provides trust services to individuals and businesses 

Ameriprise Bank, FSB &#160;(&#8220;Ameriprise Bank&#8221;) 

Offers a variety of consumer banking deposit, credit, and personal trust and related services 

##TABLE_END

Our Segments - Advice &#38; Wealth Management 

Our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. These services are centered on long-term, personal relationships between our advisors and our clients and focus on helping clients confidently achieve their financial goals. Our financial advisors provide a distinctive, holistic approach to financial planning and have access to a broad selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs and goals. 

A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based and driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for providing non-affiliated products and intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for providing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Our Financial Advisor Platform 

With approximately 10,000 advisors, we are a top 5 branded platform in the U.S. market where we provide our services. Advisors can choose to affiliate with us in multiple ways, and each option offers different levels of support and compensation. The affiliation options are: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Employee Advisors (Ameriprise Advisor Group). Under this option, an advisor is an employee of our company and receives a higher level of support, including leadership, training, office space and staff support. We pay compensation that is competitive with other employee advisor models, which is generally lower than that of our franchisee advisors in exchange for the higher level of support we provide our employee advisors. Some employee advisors work in the Ameriprise Advisor Center (&#8220;AAC&#8221;), our dedicated platform for remote-based sales and service to Ameriprise retail customers using a team model. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Franchisee Advisors (Ameriprise Franchise Group). Under this option, an advisor is an independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than our employee advisors as they are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other 

##TABLE_END

&#160; 7 

business expenses. In addition, our franchisee advisors pay a franchise association fee and other fees in exchange for the support we offer and the right to use our brand name. The support we offer to our franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist leadership support, technology platforms and tools, training and marketing programs. 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Bank Channel Advisors (Ameriprise Financial Institutions Group). Our acquisition of IPI in 2017 added a new capability where we specialize in the on-site delivery of investment programs for financial institutions including banks and credit unions. Within this channel, we have different types of relationships with our financial institution partners and a variety of ways for advisors to affiliate with us. 

##TABLE_END We are committed to providing our advisors with the resources and support necessary to manage and grow their practices. Our platform offers advisors (and therefore clients) the flexibility of operating on a commission-based brokerage basis as well as on a fee-based advisory basis. Advisors have access to training and materials reflecting our differentiated financial planning model and Confident Retirement planning approach, our nationally recognized brand and &#8220;Be Brilliant &#174; &#8221; advertising campaign, local marketing support capabilities and our full range of proprietary and non-proprietary advice and product solutions. Our advisor practices also benefit from Ameriprise&#8217;s demonstrated financial strength and our dedication to our clients. We expect to continue to invest in our advisor platform, with the goal of continuing to best serve our clients, increasing advisor productivity, and improving our ability to attract and retain advisors. 

Our nationwide advisor network consisted of approximately 10,000 advisors as of December 31, 2019, which includes over 2,100 employee advisors and advisors in our bank channel as well as approximately 7,800 independent franchisees or employees or contractors of franchisees. Of these advisors, roughly 56% have been with us for more than 10 years, with an average tenure of over 20 years. Among advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of approximately 95%. We believe our strong advisor retention rate, as well as our ability to recruit experienced advisors, speaks to the value proposition we offer our advisors and clients. 

Through our advisors, we offer clients a diversified set of cash and liquidity management, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer products and services, as well as a broad selection of financial products from other unaffiliated companies (as described below). 

Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services 

Financial Planning and Advice Services 

Our personalized financial planning approach is designed to focus on all aspects of our clients&#8217; finances. After understanding our clients&#8217; needs, our advisors seek to identify solutions to address those needs across four cornerstones: cash and liabilities, investments, protection, and taxes. We believe this approach helps our clients build a solid financial foundation, persevere through difficult economies and challenging markets, and ultimately achieve their financial goals. We offer a broad array of products and services in each of these categories, including those carrying the Ameriprise Financial, Columbia Management, Columbia Threadneedle Investments or RiverSource name, as well as solutions offered by unaffiliated firms. 

Our advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients principally by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is responsive to clients&#8217; evolving needs, priorities and goals, in part through our exclusive Confident Retirement approach. This approach involves a comprehensive assessment of retirement income sources and assets, a client&#8217;s plans and goals for retirement, and an analysis of what is needed to fund the four principal types of expenses and liabilities encountered during retirement: covering essentials, ensuring lifestyle, preparing for the unexpected, and leaving a legacy. Once a financial planning client and their advisor align on a client&#8217;s objectives, the advisor recommends a solution set consisting of actions and offers products to address those objectives. In continued partnership with their advisor, a client then identifies what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of market risk. Our financial planning relationships with our clients are characterized by an ability to understand their specific needs, which enables us to help them meet those needs, achieve high overall client satisfaction and retention, hold more products in their accounts and increase our assets under management. 

Our financial planning clients pay a fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client&#8217;s financial and life situation and their advisor&#8217;s experience. Some of our clients may elect to pay a consolidated, asset-based advisory fee for financial planning and managed account services and administration. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our company, we and our advisors generally receive a sales commission and/or sales load in addition to other revenues for the products that they purchase from us. These commissions, sales loads and other revenues are separate from, and in addition to, the financial planning and advisory fees we and our advisors may receive. 

Brokerage and Other Products and Services 

We offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services. 

Our Ameriprise ONE &#174; Financial Account is a single integrated financial management brokerage account that enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions, including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, alternative investments, cash products, and margin and securities-based lending. 

We provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Clients can use our online brokerage service to purchase and sell securities, obtain proprietary and independent research (including information about a wide variety of securities) and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. We 

&#160; 8 

offer exchange traded mutual funds, 529 plans, public non-exchange traded real estate investment trusts, structured notes, private equity and other alternative investments issued by unaffiliated companies. We also offer trading and portfolio strategy services across a number of fixed income categories, including treasuries, municipals, corporate, and mortgage- and asset-backed securities on both a proprietary and agency basis. 

From time to time, Ameriprise may participate in syndicate offerings of closed-end funds and preferred securities. Syndicates are groups of investment banks and broker-dealers that jointly underwrite and distribute new security offerings to the investing public. Our clients may purchase, for their own account, the closed-end fund shares and preferred stock of such primary offerings in which we participate. In addition, qualified clients may purchase certain privately placed securities as distributed through Ameriprise. 

Fee-based Investment Advisory Accounts 

We offer all new fee-based investment advisory accounts to clients through a single Custom Advisory Relationship (&#8220;Relationship&#8221;). We offer several types of investment advisory accounts through the Relationship. The following programs, Ameriprise&#174; Strategic Portfolio Service (SPS) Advantage, Ameriprise&#174; SPS Advisor, Ameriprise&#174; Active Portfolios&#174;, Ameriprise&#174; Select Separate Account, Ameriprise&#174; Investor Unified Account, Ameriprise&#174; Vista Separate Account and Ameriprise&#174; Access Account are offered through the Relationship. Clients may purchase mutual funds and other securities in connection with the Relationship in one or more fee-based investment advisory accounts. We currently offer discretionary and nondiscretionary investment advisory accounts. In a discretionary advisory account, we (or an unaffiliated investment advisor) choose the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary advisory account, clients choose the underlying investments in the portfolio based on their financial advisor&#8217;s recommendation. Investors in discretionary and non-discretionary advisory accounts generally pay a fee (for investment advice and other services) based on the assets held in that account as well as any related fees or costs associated with the underlying securities held in that account. A significant portion of our affiliated mutual fund sales are made through advisory accounts. Client assets held in affiliated mutual funds within an advisory account generally produce higher revenues for us than client assets held in affiliated mutual funds on a stand-alone basis. This is because, as noted above, we receive an investment advisory fee based on the asset values of the assets held in an advisory account in addition to revenues we normally receive for investment management and/or distribution of the funds included in the account. 

Ameriprise Strategic Portfolio Service (SPS) Advantage, is a non-discretionary investment advisory account service, Ameriprise SPS Advisor, is a discretionary investment advisory account service, Ameriprise Select Separate Accounts (a separately managed account (&#8220;SMA&#8221;) program), a discretionary investment advisory account service through which clients invest in strategies managed by affiliated and non-affiliated advisory service providers, and Ameriprise Active Portfolios&#174; investments, a discretionary investment advisory account service that offers a number of strategic target allocations based on different risk profiles and tax sensitivities. Additionally, we offer the following discretionary investment advisory account services Ameriprise&#174; Select Separate Account, Ameriprise&#174; Investor Unified Account, Ameriprise&#174; Vista Separate Account and Ameriprise&#174; Access Account, through which clients may invest in SMAs, mutual funds and exchange traded funds. We also offer a discretionary investment advisory account as an accommodation program where client accounts are held and serviced by a third-party asset management provider and its affiliates. 

Mutual Fund Offerings (Unaffiliated and Affiliated) 

In addition to the Columbia Management family of funds (discussed below in &#8220;Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds&#8221;), we offer mutual funds from approximately 160 unaffiliated mutual fund families representing more than 2,200 mutual funds on our brokerage platform and as part of our investment advisory accounts to provide our clients a broad choice of investment products. In 2019, retail sales of other companies&#8217; mutual funds accounted for the substantial majority of our total retail mutual fund sales. 

Mutual fund families of other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from the sales of those funds and from the ongoing management of fund assets attributable to our clients&#8217; ownership of shares of those funds. These payments enable us to offer a broad and robust product set to our clients and provide beneficial client services, tools and infrastructure such as our website and online brokerage platform. We also receive administrative services fees from most mutual funds sold through our advisor network. 

Insurance and Annuities 

We offer insurance and annuities issued by the RiverSource Life companies (discussed below in &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Annuities&#8221; and in &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Protection&#8221;). The RiverSource insurance solutions available to our retail clients include universal life insurance, indexed universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, traditional term life insurance and disability income insurance. RiverSource annuities include fixed annuities and fixed index annuities, as well as variable annuities that allow our clients to choose from a number of underlying investment options, including volatility management options, and to purchase certain guaranteed benefit riders. In addition to RiverSource insurance and annuity products, our advisors offer products from unaffiliated carriers on a limited basis, including variable annuities, life insurance and long term care insurance products issued by a select number of unaffiliated insurance companies. Ameriprise Financial Institutions Group currently offers certain additional fixed and variable insurance as well as annuity products available only through our bank channel. 

We receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of life and disability insurance policies of unaffiliated insurance companies. We are paid distribution fees on annuities sales of unaffiliated insurance companies based on a portion of the revenue generated from such sales and asset levels. These insurance companies may also pay us an administrative service fee in connection with the sale of their products. 

&#160; 9 

Cash Management and Banking Products 

Our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment currently offers (in some cases through a strategic partner) a variety of products including broker sweep programs, cash management accounts, margin loans and personal loans collateralized by investments. The broker sweep programs, the Ameriprise Insured Money Market Account (&#8220;AIMMA&#8221;) and Ameriprise Bank Insured Sweep Account (&#8220;ABISA&#8221;), provide an automatic &#8220;sweep&#8221; of available cash balances in its clients&#8217; brokerage accounts into FDIC-insured deposit accounts. We believe the availability of these products play a key role in our Advice and Wealth Management business because they allow us to offer our clients a FDIC-insured alternative to other cash investment products. This suite of cash management products and capabilities will allow our clients to consolidate their assets with us while providing convenient access and flexible, high-quality service. 

We have expanded our banking operations and products recently (as discussed above in &#8220;Business - History and Development&#8221;) and are in the process of rolling out a suite of banking products. Ameriprise Bank currently makes available Ameriprise-branded credit cards and serves clients through its Personal Trust Services division of Ameriprise Bank. Personal Trust Services provides personal trust, custodial, agency and investment management services to help meet estate and wealth transfer needs of individual and corporate clients of our affiliated advisors. Personal Trust Services also uses some of our investment products in connection with its services. Ameriprise Bank generally receives an asset-based fee for investment advice and other services based on assets managed. Moving forward, Ameriprise Bank plans to offer (in some cases through a strategic partner) a more robust set of banking products including checking and savings accounts, mortgage financing and home equity lines of credit. Ameriprise Bank's strategy and operations are focused on serving affiliated advisor clients. We provide our banking products primarily through our affiliated advisors and believe the availability of these products supports our financial advisors&#8217; ability to meet the cash and liquidity needs of our clients. 

Face-Amount Certificates 

We issue different types of face-amount certificates through Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ameriprise Financial. Ameriprise Certificate Company is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (&#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;). Owners of our certificates invest funds and, at the end of a stated term or upon demand, are entitled to receive a determinable amount of money equal to their aggregate investments in the certificate plus interest at rates we determine, less early withdrawals and related penalties, if applicable. For certain types of certificate products, the rate of interest is calculated in whole or in part based on any upward movement in a broad-based stock market index up to a maximum return, where the maximum is a fixed rate for a given term, but can be changed at our discretion for prospective terms. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $7.5 billion in total certificate reserves underlying our certificate products. Our earnings are based upon the difference, or &#8220;spread,&#8221; between the interest rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the cash invested. A portion of these earnings is used to compensate the various affiliated entities that provide management, administrative and other services to our company for these products. In times of weak performance in the equity markets, certificate sales are generally stronger. 

Financial Wellness Program 

Through our Financial Wellness Program, we provide workplace financial planning and educational programs to employees of major corporations, small businesses and school district employees. In addition, we provide training and support to financial advisors working on-site at company locations. These advisors present educational seminars, conduct one-on-one meetings and participate in client educational events. We also provide financial advice service offerings, such as financial planning and executive financial services, which are tailored to distinct employee segments. 

Strategic Alliances and Other Marketing Arrangements 

We use strategic marketing alliances, local marketing programs for our advisors, and on-site workshops through our Business Alliances group to generate new clients for our financial planning and other financial services. An important aspect of our strategy is creating alliances that help us generate new financial services clients within our target market segment - the mass affluent and affluent, and increasingly those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. Our alliance arrangements are generally for a limited duration of one to five years with an option to renew. Additionally, these types of marketing arrangements typically provide that either party may terminate the agreements on short notice, usually about sixty days. We compensate our alliance partners for providing opportunities to market to their clients. 

Our Segments - Asset Management 

Through Columbia Threadneedle Investments, our Asset Management segment provides investment management, advice and products to retail, high net worth and institutional clients on a global scale. 

Columbia Management primarily provides products and services in the U.S. and Threadneedle primarily provides products and services internationally. As noted above, we refer to the group of companies in Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings GmbH and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl as &#8220;Threadneedle.&#8221; &#8220;Columbia Threadneedle Investments&#8221; refers to both Columbia Management and Threadneedle and reflects the global manner in which we think about and operate our asset management business, which is in line with the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand. We offer U.S. retail clients a range of products through both unaffiliated third-party financial institutions and our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment. We provide institutional products and services through our institutional sales force. Retail products for non-U.S. retail investors are primarily distributed through third-party 

&#160; 10 

financial institutions and unaffiliated financial advisors. Retail products include U.S. mutual funds and their non-U.S. equivalents, exchange-traded funds (&#8220;ETFs&#8221;) and variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts. Institutional asset management services are designed to meet specific client objectives and may involve a range of products, including those that focus on traditional asset classes, separately managed accounts, collateralized loan obligations (&#8220;CLOs&#8221;), hedge fund or alternative strategies, collective funds and property funds. CLOs, hedge fund or alternative strategies and certain private funds are often classified as alternative assets. Our Asset Management segment also provides all intercompany asset management services for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries. The fees for such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management and Annuities and Protection segments. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Revenues in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by market movements, net asset flows, asset allocation and product mix. We may also earn performance fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. At December 31, 2019, our Asset Management segment had $494.2 billion in worldwide managed assets. 

Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia Threadneedle Investments fund families and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisers we select. Our external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, although certain investment funds marketed to investors may be consolidated at certain times. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on consolidation principles. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and receives management fees. For additional details regarding our assets under management and administration, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Investment Management Capabilities 

The investment management activities of Columbia Threadneedle Investments are conducted through investment management teams located in multiple locations, including Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, London, Minneapolis, New York, Menlo Park, Portland and Singapore. Each investment management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and on services offered and distribution channels utilized. Within the global asset management business, we deploy our investment teams across multiple jurisdictions pursuant to sub-advisory and personnel sharing arrangements on an intercompany basis. 

Our investment management capabilities span a broad range of asset classes and investment styles. The portfolios underlying our product and service offerings may focus on providing solutions to investors through one or more U.S. or non-U.S. equity, fixed income, bank loan, property, multi-asset allocation, alternative (including real estate and liquid alternatives) or other asset classes. The strategies utilized in the management of such portfolios varies depending on the needs and desired outcomes or objectives of individual and institutional investors. We continually assess these capabilities to help ensure our product and services offerings are responsive to the evolving needs of our clients. 

Product and Service Offerings 

We offer a broad spectrum of investment management, advice and products to individual, institutional and high-net worth investors. In an effort to address changing market conditions and the evolving needs of investors, we may from time to time develop and offer new retail and institutional investment products with new and/or innovative investment strategies, including U.S. mutual funds and their non-U.S. equivalents, ETFs, separately managed accounts, hedge or alternative funds, and other private funds, CLOs and collective funds. Below is an overview of our Asset Management offerings. 

U.S. Registered Funds 

We provide investment advisory, distribution, and other services to the Columbia Management family of funds. The Columbia Management family of funds includes retail mutual funds, exchange-listed ETFs and U.S. closed-end funds and variable insurance trust funds (&#8220;VIT Funds&#8221;). Retail mutual funds are available through unaffiliated third-party financial institutions and the Ameriprise &#174; financial advisor network. VIT Funds are available as underlying investment options in variable annuity and variable life insurance products, including RiverSource &#174; products. The Columbia Management family of funds includes domestic and international equity funds, fixed income funds, cash management funds, balanced funds, specialty funds, absolute return and other alternative funds and asset allocation funds, including fund-of-funds, with a variety of investment objectives. The Columbia Management family of funds also uses sub-advisers to diversify the product offerings it makes available to investors on its VIT Funds and retail mutual funds platforms. At December 31, 2019, our sponsored U.S. retail mutual funds, ETFs, and U.S. closed-end funds had total managed assets of $164.7 billion in 148 funds. The VIT Funds that we sponsor and manage had total managed assets at December 31, 2019 of $76.8 billion in 70 funds. 

Columbia Management serves as investment manager for most of our U.S. mutual funds as well as our exchange-listed ETFs and U.S. closed-end funds. Columbia Wanger Asset Management, LLC (&#8220;Columbia Wanger&#8221;), a subsidiary of Columbia Management, also serves as investment manager for certain funds, which are included in the totals noted in the preceding paragraph. In addition, several of our subsidiaries perform related services for the funds, including distribution, accounting, administrative and transfer 

&#160; 11 

agency services. Columbia Management and Columbia Wanger perform investment management services pursuant to contracts with the U.S. registered funds that are subject to renewal by the fund boards within two years after initial implementation, and on an annual basis thereafter. We earn management fees for managing the assets of the Columbia Management family of mutual funds based on the underlying asset values. We also earn fees by providing related services to the Columbia Management family of funds. 

Non-U.S. Funds 

Threadneedle offers a fund product range that includes different risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include retail funds that are similar to U.S. mutual funds. These funds are marketed to non-U.S. persons and the majority are often referred to as UCITS products (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities). UCITS and other funds offered by Threadneedle typically are structured as Open Ended Investment Companies (&#8220;OEICs&#8221;) in the UK and as Soci&#233;t&#233; d'investissement &#224; Capital Variable (&#8220;SICAVs&#8221;) in Luxembourg, as well as unit trusts. Threadneedle also sponsors, manages and offers UK property funds that invest in UK real estate. Many of our non-U.S. fund offerings are registered in and distributed across multiple jurisdictions. For example, our SICAVs are offered in many jurisdictions and are now our primary offering to investors outside of the UK and U.S. At December 31, 2019, our non-U.S. retail funds had total managed assets of $45.9 billion in 156 funds. 

Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. serves as investment manager for most of our non-U.S. fund products and earns management fees based on underlying asset values for managing the assets of these funds. Certain Threadneedle affiliates also earn fees by providing ancillary services to the funds. In addition, certain non-U.S. funds or portions of the portfolios underlying such funds may receive sub-advisory services, including services provided by both Columbia Threadneedle Investments personnel and other unaffiliated advisers. 

Separately Managed Accounts 

We provide a range of global investment management services, including pension, profit-sharing, employee savings, sovereign wealth funds and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high-net-worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and not-for-profit organizations. Our services include investment of funds on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and related services including trading, cash management and reporting. We offer various fixed income, equity and alternative investment strategies for our institutional clients with separately managed accounts. Columbia Management and Threadneedle distribute products of the other under the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand, including Threadneedle&#8217;s offering various investment strategies of Columbia Management to non-U.S. clients and Columbia Management&#8217;s offering of certain investment strategies of Threadneedle to U.S. clients. 

For our investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of managed assets pursuant to contracts the client can terminate on short notice. Clients may also pay us fees based on the performance of their portfolio. At December 31, 2019, within our Columbia Threadneedle Investments asset management business we managed a total of $116.2 billion in assets under this range of services. 

Management of Owned Assets 

We provide investment management services and include management fees for certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as the assets held in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies and assets held by Ameriprise Certificate Company and Ameriprise Bank. Our fixed income team manages the general account assets to produce a consolidated and targeted rate of return on investments based on a certain level of risk. Our fixed income and equity teams also manage separate account assets. The Asset Management segment&#8217;s management of owned assets for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries is reviewed by the boards of directors and staff functions of the applicable subsidiaries consistent with regulatory investment requirements. At December 31, 2019, the Asset Management segment managed $41.9 billion of owned assets. 

Management of Collateralized Loan Obligations (&#8220;CLOs&#8221;) 

Columbia Threadneedle Investments has a team of investment professionals who provide collateral management services to special purpose vehicles which primarily invest in syndicated bank loans and issue multiple tranches of securities collateralized by the assets of each pool to provide investors with various maturity and credit risk characteristics. For collateral management of CLOs, we earn fees based on the par value of assets and, in certain instances, we may also receive performance-based fees. At December 31, 2019, we managed $2.4 billion of assets related to CLOs. 

Private Funds 

We also provide investment management and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability companies, or foreign (non-U.S.) entities. These funds are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act under either Section 3(c)(1), Section 3(c)(5), Section 3(c)(7) or related interpretative relief and are organized as U.S. and non-U.S. funds. These funds are subject to local regulation in the jurisdictions where they are formed or marketed. For investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of assets under management, and we may also receive performance-based fees. As of December 31, 2019, we managed $4.5 billion in private fund assets. 

Lionstone Investments, a subsidiary of Columbia Management, also serves as investment manager for certain private funds (in addition to separate accounts), which are included in the totals noted in the preceding paragraph. 

&#160; 12 

Ameriprise Trust Company - Collective Funds and Separately Managed Accounts 

Collective funds are investment funds sponsored by ATC (our Minnesota-chartered trust company); these funds are exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and are offered to certain qualified institutional clients such as retirement, pension, and profit-sharing plans. Columbia Management currently serves as investment adviser to ATC with respect to a series of ATC collective funds covering a broad spectrum of investment strategies for which ATC serves as trustee. ATC receives fees for its investment management services to the collective funds, and Columbia Management receives fees from ATC pursuant to an agreement with ATC for the investment advisory services provided by Columbia Management. The fees payable to ATC and Columbia Management are generally based upon a percentage of assets under management. In addition to its collective funds, ATC serves as investment manager to separately managed accounts for qualified institutional clients. 

As of December 31, 2019, we managed $6.5 billion of ATC Funds and separate accounts for ATC clients. This amount does not include the Columbia Management family of funds held in other retirement plans because these assets are included under assets managed for institutional and retail clients and within the &#8220;Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds&#8221; section above. 

Sub-advised Accounts 

In addition, we act as sub-adviser for certain U.S. and non-U.S. funds, private banking individually managed accounts, common trust funds, and other portfolios sponsored or advised by other firms. As with our affiliated funds, we earn management fees for these sub-advisory services based on the underlying asset value of the funds and accounts we sub-advise. For these accounts, we may also receive fees based on the performance of the underlying portfolio. As of December 31, 2019, we managed $35.3 billion in assets in a sub-advisory capacity. 

Distribution 

We maintain distribution teams and capabilities that support the sales, marketing, and support of the products and services of our global asset management business. These distribution activities are generally organized into two major categories: retail distribution and institutional/high net worth distribution. 

Retail Distribution 

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of our Columbia Management family of funds. Pursuant to distribution agreements with the funds, we offer and sell fund shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with the marketing and selling of shares. We earn commissions for distributing the Columbia Management funds through sales charges (front-end or back-end loads) on certain classes of shares and distribution (12b-1) and servicing-related fees based on a percentage of fund assets and receive intersegment allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels and mix of the funds. 

Columbia Management fund shares are sold through both our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment and through unaffiliated third-party financial intermediaries, including U.S. Trust and Bank of America (from whom we acquired Columbia Management in 2010). Fees and reimbursements paid to such intermediaries may vary based on sales, redemptions, asset values, asset allocation, product mix, and marketing and support activities provided by the intermediary. Intersegment distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management Segment are eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Threadneedle funds are sold primarily through financial intermediaries and institutions, including banks, life insurance companies, independent financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms offering a variety of investment products. Threadneedle also distributes directly to certain clients. Various Threadneedle affiliates serve as the distributors of these fund offerings and are authorized to engage in such activities in numerous countries across Europe, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific region and Africa. Certain Threadneedle fund offerings, such as its UCITS products, may be distributed on a cross-border basis while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. 

Institutional and High Net Worth Distribution 

We offer separately managed account services and certain funds to high net worth clients and to a variety of institutional clients, including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high-net-worth individuals and not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries. We also provide a variety of services for our institutional clients that sponsor retirement plans. We have dedicated institutional sales teams that market directly to such institutional clients. We concentrate on establishing strong relationships with both institutional clients as well as leading global and national consultancy firms across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australia. 

Our Segments - Annuities 

Our Annuities segment provides RiverSource variable and fixed annuity products to individual clients. Our solutions in this segment and our Protection segment help us deliver on our Confident Retirement approach. 

The RiverSource Life companies provide variable and fixed annuity products through our advisors. These products are designed to help individuals address their asset accumulation and income goals. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed deferred annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; general account 

&#160; 13 

assets supporting fixed account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on general account assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities with a non-life contingent feature and for certain guaranteed benefits offered with variable annuities and on capital supporting the business. Revenues for our immediate annuities with a life contingent feature are earned as premium revenue. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds previously discussed (see &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds,&#8221; above) under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Our annuity products include deferred variable and fixed annuities as well as immediate annuities. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is generally driven by the relative performance of the equity and fixed income markets. Fixed sales are generally stronger when yields available in the fixed income markets are relatively high. Variable sales are generally stronger in times of superior performance in equity markets. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is also influenced by product design and other factors. In addition to the revenues we generate on any fixed investment option available within our variable annuity products, we also receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested, as discussed below under &#8220;Variable Annuities.&#8221; Investment management performance is critical to the profitability of our RiverSource annuity business. 

Variable Annuities 

A variable annuity provides a contractholder with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the contractholder&#8217;s choice. The underlying investment account options may include the VIT Funds previously discussed (see &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds,&#8221; above) and variable portfolio funds offered through unaffiliated companies. 

Contract purchasers can choose to add optional benefits to their contracts for an additional fee, including but not limited to, certain guaranteed minimum death benefits (individually, &#8220;GMDB&#8221;), a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (&#8220;GMWB&#8221;) and a guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (&#8220;GMAB&#8221;). Approximately 99% of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMDB and approximately 64% of RiverSource Life's overall variable annuity assets include a GMWB or GMAB. In general, these features can help protect contractholders and beneficiaries from a shortfall in death benefits, accumulation value or lifetime income due to a decline in the value of their underlying investment accounts. In January 2020 we launched a new structured annuity product that we believe will diversify our annuity offerings away from living benefit features. 

The general account assets of the RiverSource Life insurance subsidiaries support the contractual obligations under the guaranteed benefit they offer (see &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - Management of Owned Assets&#8221; above). As a result, we bear the risk that protracted under-performance of the financial markets could result in guaranteed benefit payments being higher than what current account values would support. Our exposure to risk from guaranteed benefits generally will increase when equity markets decline. Similarly, our guaranteed benefit reserves will generally increase when interest rates decline. 

RiverSource variable annuities generally provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and administrative fees, fees charged for optional benefits and features elected by the contractholder, and other contract charges. Our new structured annuity introduced in 2020 does not have mortality and expense fees. We receive marketing support payments from the VIT Funds underlying our variable annuity products as well as Rule 12b-1 distribution and servicing-related fees from the VIT Funds and the underlying funds of other companies. In addition, we receive marketing support payments from other companies&#8217; funds included as investment options in our RiverSource variable annuity products. 

Fixed Annuities 

RiverSource fixed deferred annuity products provide a contractholder with contract value that increases by a fixed or indexed interest rate. We periodically reset rates at our discretion subject to certain contract terms establishing guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates. Our earnings from fixed deferred annuities are based upon the spread between rates earned on assets purchased with fixed deferred annuity deposits and the rates at which interest is credited to our RiverSource fixed deferred annuity contracts. New contracts issued provide guaranteed minimum interest rates in compliance with state laws. Immediate annuity products provide a contractholder a guaranteed fixed income payment for life or the term of the contract. 

Distribution 

Our RiverSource Distributors subsidiary is a registered broker-dealer that serves both as the principal underwriter and distributor of RiverSource variable and fixed annuities through AFS. Our advisor network is the largest distributor of RiverSource annuity products, although advisors can offer variable annuities from selected unaffiliated insurers as well. 

Liabilities and Reserves for Annuities 

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the risks associated with guaranteed benefit provisions added to variable annuity contracts in addition to liabilities arising from fixed and variable annuity base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and 

&#160; 14 

reserves related to our annuity products in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,&#8221; as well as in Note 2, Note 11, Note 12 and Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Strength Ratings 

Our insurance company subsidiaries that issue RiverSource annuity products receive ratings from independent rating organizations. Ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. For a discussion of the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries, see the &#8220;Our Segments - Protection - Financial Strength Ratings&#8221; section below. 

Our Segments - Protection 

Our Protection segment provides a variety of products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients, including life and disability income insurance. These products are designed to provide a lifetime of solutions that allow clients to protect income, grow assets and leave a legacy. 

Life and disability income products are primarily provided through our advisors. We issue insurance policies through our RiverSource life insurance subsidiaries. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees and charges we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; separate account assets supporting variable universal life investment options. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in consolidation. 

RiverSource Insurance Products 

Through the RiverSource Life companies, we issue universal life insurance, indexed universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and disability income insurance. Universal life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance characterized by flexible premiums, flexible death benefits and unbundled pricing factors (i.e., mortality, interest and expenses). Variable universal life insurance combines the premium and death benefit flexibility of universal life with underlying fund investment flexibility and the risks associated therewith. Traditional life insurance refers to whole and term life insurance policies. Traditional life insurance typically pays a specified sum to a beneficiary upon death of the insured for a fixed premium. We also offer our clients various riders and alternatives, such as an accelerated benefit rider for chronic illness on our permanent insurance products and a universal life insurance product with long term care benefits. 

Our sales of RiverSource individual life insurance in 2019, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums and single premiums, consisted of approximately 71% universal life, 26% variable universal life and 3% traditional life. Our RiverSource Life companies issue only non-participating life insurance policies that do not pay dividends to policyholders from the insurer&#8217;s earnings. 

Assets supporting policy values associated with fixed account life insurance products, as well as those assets associated with fixed account investment options under variable insurance products (collectively referred to as the &#8220;fixed accounts&#8221;), are part of the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; general accounts. Under fixed accounts, the RiverSource Life companies bear the investment risk. More information regarding the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; general accounts is found under &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - Management of Owned Assets&#8221; above. 

Variable Universal Life Insurance 

Variable universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the policyholder&#8217;s choice. Investment options may include the VIT Funds discussed above, Portfolio Navigator and Portfolio Stabilizer funds of funds, an index-linked option, as well as variable portfolio funds offered through unaffiliated companies. 

Universal Life Insurance and Traditional Whole Life Insurance 

Universal life and traditional whole life insurance policies do not subject the policyholder to the investment risks associated with variable universal life insurance. 

RiverSource universal life insurance products provide life insurance coverage and cash value that increases by a fixed interest rate. The rate is periodically reset at the discretion of the issuing company subject to certain policy terms relative to minimum interest crediting rates. Certain universal life policies offered by RiverSource Life provide secondary guarantee benefits. The secondary guarantee ensures that, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. 

RiverSource indexed universal life insurance (&#8220;IUL&#8221;) provides lifetime insurance protection and asset growth through index-linked interest crediting. IUL is similar to universal life insurance in that it provides life insurance coverage and cash value that increases as a result of credited interest as well as a minimum guaranteed credited rate of interest. 

&#160; 15 

We previously discontinued new sales of traditional whole life insurance; however, we continue to service existing policies. Our in-force traditional whole life insurance policies combine a death benefit with a cash value that generally increases gradually over a period of years. 

Term Life Insurance 

Term life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not accumulate cash value. The policyholder chooses the term of coverage with guaranteed premiums at the time of issue. During the chosen term, we cannot raise premium rates (even if claims experience deteriorates). At the end of the chosen term, coverage may continue with higher premiums until the maximum age is attained, or the policy expires with no value. 

Disability Income Insurance 

Disability income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time of disability (&#8220;own occupation&#8221;) or at any suitable occupation (&#8220;any occupation&#8221;) for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Depending upon occupational and medical underwriting criteria, applicants for disability income insurance can choose &#8220;own occupation&#8221; and &#8220;any occupation&#8221; coverage for varying benefit periods. In some states, applicants may also choose various benefit provisions to help them integrate individual disability income insurance benefits with Social Security or similar benefit plans and to help them protect their disability income insurance benefits from the risk of inflation. 

Distribution and Marketing Channels 

We offer RiverSource life insurance products almost exclusively through our advisors. Our advisors offer insurance products issued predominantly by the RiverSource Life companies, though they may also offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, subject to certain qualifications. 

Reinsurance 

We reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our annuity, life, disability income and long term care (included in our Corporate &#38; Other segment) products through reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance to limit losses, reduce exposure to large and catastrophic risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our insurance companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. 

See Note 7 and Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance. 

Liabilities and Reserves for Insurance 

We maintain adequate reserves to cover the insurance risks associated with the insurance products we issue in addition to the liabilities arising from base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our insurance products in Note 2, Note 11, Note 12 and Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Applicable state insurance laws generally require us to assess and submit an opinion regarding the adequacy of our statutory-based reserves on an annual basis. For a discussion of the statutory-based financial statements related to our insurance products, see Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Strength Ratings 

Independent rating organizations continually evaluate the financial soundness and claims-paying ability of insurance companies, and they base their ratings on a number of different factors, including market position in core products and market segments, risk-adjusted capitalization and the quality of the company&#8217;s investment portfolios. More specifically, the ratings assigned are developed from an evaluation of a company&#8217;s balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Balance sheet strength reflects a company&#8217;s ability to meet its current and ongoing obligations to its contractholders and policyholders and includes analysis of a company&#8217;s capital adequacy. The evaluation of operating performance centers on the stability and sustainability of a company&#8217;s sources of earnings. The business profile component of the rating considers a company&#8217;s mix of business, market position and depth and experience of management. 

Our insurance subsidiaries&#8217; ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our protection and annuity products. We list our insurance subsidiaries&#8217; financial strength ratings on our website at ir.ameriprise.com. For the most current ratings information, please see the individual rating agency&#8217;s website. 

&#160; 16 

Our Segments - Corporate &#38; Other 

Our Corporate &#38; Other segment consists of the long term care business and net investment income or loss on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues as well as unallocated corporate expenses. Prior to the sale on October 1, 2019, our Ameriprise Auto and Home Insurance business was included in this segment. 

Closed Block Long Term Care Insurance 

Prior to December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies underwrote stand-alone long term care (&#8220;LTC&#8221;) insurance. We discontinued offering LTC insurance as of December 31, 2002. A large majority of our closed block LTC is comprised of nursing home indemnity LTC or comprehensive reimbursement LTC. Generally, our policyholders are eligible for LTC benefits if they become cognitively impaired or unable to perform certain activities of daily living. 

Nursing home indemnity LTC policies provide a predefined daily benefit if the insured is confined to a nursing home, subject to various maximum benefit periods, regardless of actual expenses of the policyholder. Our older generation nursing home indemnity LTC policies were written between 1989 through 1999 and represent half of our policies. 

Comprehensive reimbursement LTC policies provide a predefined maximum daily benefit if the insured is confined to a nursing home and covers a variety of LTC expenses including assisted living, home and community care, adult day care and similar placement programs, subject to various maximum total benefit payment pools, on a cost-reimbursement basis. Our second generation comprehensive reimbursement LTC policies were written from 1997 until 2002. 

Our closed block LTC was sold on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in force policies, subject to regulatory approval. Premium rates for LTC policies vary by age, benefit period, elimination period, home care coverage and benefit increase option. Premium rates are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience. In line with the market, we have pursued nationwide premium rate increases for many years and expect to continue to pursue rate increases over the next several years. In general, since very little of our LTC business is subject to rate stability regulation, we have followed a policy of pursuing smaller, more frequent increases rather than single large increases in order to align policyholder and shareholder objectives. We also provide policyholders with options to reduce their coverage to lessen or eliminate the additional financial outlay that would otherwise result. 

For existing LTC policies, RiverSource Life has continued ceding 50% of the risk on a coinsurance basis to subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc. (&#8220;Genworth&#8221;) and retains the remaining risk. For RiverSource Life of NY, this reinsurance arrangement applies for 1996 and later issues only. Under these agreements, we have the right, but never the obligation, to recapture some, or all, of the risk ceded to Genworth. 

For more information regarding LTC, see Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Corporate and Other.&#8221; 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive global industry. As a diversified financial services firm, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions, including registered investment advisors, securities brokers, asset managers, banks and insurance companies. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, broader and deeper distribution capabilities and more robust products and services than we do. We directly compete for the provision of products and services to clients, as well as for our financial advisors and investment management personnel. Certain of our competitors offer web-based or mobile-based financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. 

Our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment competes with securities broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, financial planning firms, registered investment advisors, insurance companies and other financial institutions to attract and retain financial advisors and clients. Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain financial advisors include compensation structures, brand recognition and reputation, product offerings, and technology and service capabilities and support. Further, our financial advisors compete for clients with a range of other advisors, broker-dealers and direct channels. This includes wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, insurers, banks, asset managers, registered investment advisers and direct distributors. Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain clients include quality of advice provided, price, reputation, advertising and brand recognition, product offerings, technology offerings and service quality. 

Our Asset Management segment competes on a global basis to acquire and retain managed and administered assets against a substantial number of firms, including those in the categories listed above. Such competitors may have achieved greater economies of scale, offer a broader array of products and services, offer products with a stronger performance record and have greater distribution capabilities. Competitive factors influencing our performance in this industry include investment performance, product offerings and innovation, product ratings, fee structures, advertising, service quality, brand recognition, reputation and the ability to attract and retain investment personnel. Furthermore, changes in investment preferences or investment management strategy (for example, &#8220;active&#8221; or &#8220;passive&#8221; investing styles), client or regulatory requirements on use of client commissions for research, and downward pressure on fees present various challenges to our business and may favor different competitors that focus more on &#8220;passive&#8221; investing styles. Regulators are increasingly mandating that mutual fund boards produce evidence of the value each fund share class delivers to investors and are also questioning the value of performance fee models, which may lead to downward pressure on fees. The ability to 

&#160; 17 

create, maintain and deepen relationships with distributors and clients also plays a significant role in our ability to acquire and retain managed and administered assets. The impact of these factors on our business may vary from country to country and certain competitors may have certain competitive advantage in certain jurisdictions. As an example, the implementation of the terms of the British exit from the European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;) (commonly known as &#8220;Brexit&#8221;) and other regulatory or political impacts may ultimately favor certain types of asset managers in the EU. 

Competitors of our Annuities and Protection segments consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies. Competitive factors affecting the sale of annuity and insurance products include distribution capabilities, price, product features, hedging capability, investment performance, commission structure, perceived financial strength, claims-paying ratings, service, advertising, brand recognition and financial strength ratings from rating agencies such as A.M. Best. 

Technology 

We have an integrated and recently updated customer management system that serves as the hub of our technology platform. In addition, we have specialized product engines that manage various accounts, and over the years we have updated our platform to include new product lines. We also use a proprietary suite of processes, methods and tools for our financial planning services. We update our technological capabilities regularly to help maintain an adaptive platform design that aims to enhance the productivity of our advisors to allow for faster, lower-cost responses to emerging business opportunities, compliance requirements and marketplace and cybersecurity trends. 

We have developed and maintain a comprehensive business continuity plan that utilizes an all-hazards approach to cover potential business disruptions to centrally controlled systems, platforms and facilities of varying severity and scope. This plan addresses, among other things, the loss of an entire geographic area, corporate buildings, staff, data systems and/or telecommunications capabilities regardless of their cause (e.g., flood, fire, terrorism or other denial or disruption of technology service). Our plan for cybersecurity incidents also provides a response framework for a breach of data protection. We periodically review, update and test our business continuity plan and data protection response manuals. We require our key technology vendors and service providers that deliver corporate-wide services and solutions to do the same. Additionally, we require our franchise advisors to create plans which cover such events for their locally controlled systems, data, staff and facilities. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 12,500 employees, including over 2,100 employee advisors (which does not include our franchisee advisors, who are not employees of our company, but does include advisors employed in the AAC and in our Ameriprise Financial Institutions Group). We are not subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. In the U.S. and other jurisdictions, we have established and registered, or filed applications to register, certain trademarks and service marks that we consider important to the marketing of our products and services, including but not limited to Ameriprise Financial, Threadneedle, RiverSource and Columbia Threadneedle Investments. We have in the past and will continue to establish and protect our intellectual property. 

Regulation 

Virtually all aspects of our business, including the activities of the parent company and our subsidiaries, are subject to various federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide broad regulatory, administrative and enforcement powers to supervisory agencies and other bodies, including U.S. federal and state regulatory and law enforcement agencies, foreign government agencies or regulatory bodies and U.S. and foreign securities exchanges. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations can be significant, and the consequences for the failure to comply may include civil or criminal charges, fines, censure, the suspension of individual employees, restrictions on or prohibitions from engaging in certain lines of business (or in certain states or countries), revocation of certain registrations and reputational damage. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our compliance and supervision processes, enhancing policies, procedures and oversight to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. 

The regulatory environment in which we operate remains subject to change and heightened regulatory scrutiny. Regulatory developments, both in and outside of the U.S., have resulted or are expected to result in greater regulatory oversight and internal compliance obligations for firms across the financial services industry. In addition, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding retirement investing as well as cybersecurity and privacy matters, and we will continue to closely review and monitor any legislative or regulatory proposals and changes. States, such as California with the newly effective California Consumer Privacy Act, continue to add new complexity to the patchwork of laws already in existence relating to privacy and cybersecurity and we are expecting similar new laws this year in multiple states. The same is true for retirement investing where individual states continue to propose or enact rules that create more complexity in terms of a multitude of standards in place. These legal and regulatory changes have impacted and may in the future impact how we are regulated and how we operate and govern our businesses. 

&#160; 18 

The discussion and overview set forth below provides a general framework of the primary laws and regulations impacting our businesses. Certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to one or more elements of this regulatory framework depending on the nature of their business, the products and services they provide and the geographic locations in which they operate. To the extent the discussion includes references to statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to these statutory and regulatory provisions and is current only as of the date of this report. 

In addition to the regulators summarized above, we are also subject to regulation by self-regulatory organizations such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), various federal and state securities, insurance and financial regulators (such as regulatory agencies and bodies like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the U.S. Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;)) in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions (such as the European Securities and Markets Authority and the national financial regulator for each European country) where we do business. 

Advice and Wealth Management Regulation 

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) and with certain states, the District of Columbia and other U.S. territories. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, and are subject to the regulations of these organizations. The SEC and FINRA have stringent rules with respect to the net capital requirements and the marketing and trading activities of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, as well as our financial advisors and other personnel, must obtain all required state and FINRA licenses and registrations to engage in the securities business and take certain steps to maintain such registrations in good standing. SEC regulations also impose notice requirements and capital limitations on the payment of dividends by a broker-dealer to a parent. 

&#160; 19 

Our financial advisors are representatives of a dual registrant, meaning it is registered both as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (&#8220;Advisers Act&#8221;) and as a broker-dealer. Our advisors are subject to various regulations that impact how they operate their practices, including those related to supervision, sales methods, trading practices, record-keeping and financial reporting. In addition, because our independent contractor advisor platform is structured as a franchise system, we are also subject to Federal Trade Commission and state franchise requirements. As noted earlier, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding retirement investing and financial advisors, including proposed rules, regulatory priorities or general discussions around transparency and disclosure in advisor compensation and recruiting, identifying and managing conflicts of interest and enhanced data collection. 

In June 2019 the SEC adopted a package of rulemakings and interpretations related to the provision of advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers, including Regulation Best Interest and the Client Relationship Summary (Form CRS) effective June 30, 2020. Among other things, Regulation Best Interest requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation to that customer of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. The regulation entails heightened standards for broker-dealers, and we anticipate incurring additional costs in order to review and modify our policies and procedures, as well as associated supervisory and compliance controls and the provision of Form CRS to clients. Furthermore, several states have either issued their own best interest or fiduciary rules or are considering doing so and those rules may be limited to certain types of products (e.g. insurance and annuities, financial planning, etc.) or may broadly cover all recommendations made by financial advisors. The DOL has included on its regulatory agenda fiduciary rulemaking regarding investment advice to clients who hold assets in IRAs and certain employer-sponsored retirement plan accounts. The Certified Financial Planner Board has updated its professional standards of conduct to include a fiduciary standard that will apply to financial advisors who hold a Certified Financial Planner designation. Currently, Ameriprise has approximately 4,100 financial advisors who hold a Certified Financial Planner designation. Considering the various fiduciary rules and regulations that have been proposed or finalized, we continue to exert significant efforts to evaluate and prepare to comply with each rule. Depending on the span and substance of any regulations and timing of their applicability, the scope of any implementation could impact the way we compensate our advisors, particularly with respect to the sale of commission-based products, the access that representatives of affiliated and unaffiliated product manufacturers could have to our advisors and clients, and the manner and degree to which we and our advisors could have selling and marketing costs reimbursed by product manufacturers. We have incurred infrastructure costs in anticipation of compliance with these new regulations, and ongoing costs will be driven by how these regulations evolve over the course of time. 

Other agencies, exchanges and self-regulatory organizations of which certain of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are members, and subject to applicable rules and regulations of, include the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) and the National Futures Association (&#8220;NFA&#8221;). Effective in August 2014, AFS changed its registration with the CFTC from a Futures Commission Merchant to a Commodity Trading Advisor. In addition, certain subsidiaries may also be registered as insurance agencies and may be subject to the regulations described in the following sections. 

Asset Management Regulation 

U.S. Regulation 

In the U.S., certain of our asset management subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers under the Advisers Act and are subject to regulation by the SEC. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, disclosure obligations and record-keeping, and operational and marketing restrictions. Our registered investment advisers may also be subject to certain obligations of the Investment Company Act based on their status as investment advisers to U.S. registered investment companies that we, or third parties, sponsor. As noted earlier, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding financial services in the U.S. through rules, regulatory priorities or general discussion. This trend is especially true globally where regulators remain active, including in Europe. Any future regulation could potentially require new approaches which increase our regulatory burdens and costs. 

Many aspects of the regulation that applies to our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment would also apply to our Asset Management segment. For example, Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. is registered as a broker-dealer for the limited purpose of acting as the principal underwriter and distributor for Columbia Management funds. Additionally, ERISA, the SEC&#8217;s best interest standards, state and other fiduciary or best interest rules, as well as other similar standards and any rulemaking from the DOL would be relevant to our global asset management business. We continue to review and analyze the potential impact of these regulations across each of our business lines. 

In connection with rules adopted by the CFTC, certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor and commodity pool operator and are also members of the NFA. These rules adopted by the CFTC eliminated or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from many CFTC requirements, and impose additional registration and reporting requirements for operators of certain registered investment companies and certain other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives that are subject to CFTC regulation. 

&#160; 20 

Non-U.S. Regulation 

UK Regulation 

Outside of the U.S., Columbia Threadneedle Investments is primarily authorized to conduct its financial services business in the UK under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Threadneedle is currently regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (&#8220;PRA&#8221;). FCA and PRA rules impose certain capital, operational and compliance requirements and allow for disciplinary action in the event of noncompliance. As with the U.S. environment, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding financial services. Key UK regulatory developments and trends include the following: 

##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Brexit. Although the UK withdrew from the EU on January 31, 2020, it did so pursuant to a transitionary withdrawal agreement with the EU that in substance maintains the pre-withdrawal, status quo until the end of 2020. As a result, the UK financial service sector continues to face uncertainty over the final relationship with the EU, which could impact cross-border marketing of financial products. We continue to monitor developments in place and have an ongoing project to ensure we can continue to service our EU clients. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

Operational Resilience. UK regulators have published proposals to improve the &#8220;operational resilience&#8221; of the UK financial systems and firms and these new rules will be phased in from 2021. 

##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#8226; 

UK Asset Management Market Study. The FCA has issued a comprehensive competition study of the UK asset management industry, focusing on the role of the asset management industry in providing financial services, and the transparency and value it offers, to clients, particularly in active asset management. 

##TABLE_END Having withdrawn from the EU, the UK and others will need to negotiate the terms of multiple new relationships, which will take some time. The full impact of Brexit and its related consequences remain uncertain, including with respect to ongoing negotiations between the UK and EU and new trade agreements with global trading partners. We continue to actively monitor the dynamic Brexit situation and political activity around Brexit. We are preparing for potential disruptions which may arise following the end of the transitional period in 2021. 

We have an established fund range domiciled in Luxembourg (both UCITS and AIF) along with a UCITS Management Company, and Columbia Threadneedle Investments has expanded the regulated permissions of its Luxembourg entity to perform fund management, administration and distribution functions. Therefore, we are well placed to continue to serve investors in Europe. We have replicated, and will continue to replicate, appropriate funds from our UK-based OEIC range within our Luxembourg SICAV platform. We have a well-resourced and experienced product development team with the capacity to ensure the needs of our clients are met in an efficient and transparent manner. As a result of our expansion of regulated permissions in Luxembourg, we expect to have greater engagement with the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (&#8220;CSSF&#8221;), as the primary regulator of our Luxembourg business and funds. 

Pan-European and Other Non-U.S. Regulation 

In addition to the above, certain of our asset management subsidiaries, such as Columbia Threadneedle Investment&#8217;s UK and other European subsidiaries, are required to comply with both pan-European directives as issued by the European Commission and adopted by EU member states. Certain of these directives impact our global asset management business. For example, Columbia Threadneedle Investments and certain of our other asset management subsidiaries are required to comply with the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (&#8220;MiFID II&#8221;), Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (&#8220;MiFIR&#8221;) , Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (&#8220;AIFMD&#8221;), European Market Infrastructure Regulation (&#8220;EMIR&#8221;) and the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directives (&#8220;UCITS&#8221;). These requirements impact the way we manage assets and place, settle and report on trades for our clients, as well as market to clients and prospects. EMIR provides a framework for the regulation of over the counter and exchange-traded derivative markets. Similar to the developments in the U.S., we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding financial services through international markets, including in the EU where we have a substantial asset management business. These non-U.S. rules, proposed rules, regulatory priorities or general discussions may impact us directly or indirectly, including as a regulated entity or as a service provider to, or a business receiving services from or engaging in transactions with, regulated entities. In addition to regulations noted in this section, within the EU and the UK we have been and will continue to address regulatory reforms or structural changes including but not limited to: enhanced regulatory focus on sustainable finance and environmental, social and governance (ESG); Senior Manager and Certification Regime; Solvency II; Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products; Market Abuse Regulation; Transparency Directive II; Fourth and Fifth Money Laundering Directive; EU Benchmarks Regulation; Money Market Fund Regulation; Shareholder Rights Directive; Securitisation Regulation; and Criminal Finance Act. 

MiFID II came into effect in January 2018 and is the most significant regulatory change EU investment firms have recently faced. MiFID II strengthened the requirement for investment firms to act in the client&#8217;s best interest, in many areas including conflicts of interest (specifically, inducements and a prohibition on free research), strengthening of best execution requirements and increased costs and charges disclosure, in relation to all services provided to clients. Firms are also subject to an increase in the scope of transactions which must be reported to both the regulator and the market. In response to MiFID II, Columbia Threadneedle Investments has implemented wide ranging changes to systems, policies and operating procedures across its business, including: (i) increased transparency and reporting to our clients over costs impacting their investments, (ii) publishing detailed information on a near real-time basis for some trades, and reporting all transactions to the regulator the next business day, (iii) strengthening rules on 

&#160; 21 

requirements and reporting of best execution of our trades, and (iv) moving from clients paying for investment research as part of a bundled transaction fee to Columbia Threadneedle Investments paying for the research. 

GDPR sought to harmonize data protection legislation and introduced changes in areas such as: (i) governance and oversight, (ii) processing of personal data, (iii) enhancements around consent and data subject rights, and (iv) international data transfers. GDPR is a step change in the way personal data is regulated in Europe and outside of Europe to the extent that goods or services are being marketed to EU citizens and their personal information is collected and processed in the course of that interaction. GDPR became effective in May 2018, and our GDPR program is operational. We are mindful of other upcoming regulatory change (including those arising from Brexit) and the data privacy impact that it will have on our current business model post-Brexit. 

Under the guidance of ESMA (a European supervisor), many national regulators such as the FCA and the CSSF are using data analytics to measure how &#8220;active&#8221; funds are performing versus benchmarks. Where a regulator finds that a fund, although charging active fees, has a high benchmark correlation, the regulators are asking asset managers to provide evidence of asset management. 

In Singapore, our asset management subsidiary Threadneedle Investments Singapore (Pte.) Ltd. (&#8220;Threadneedle Singapore&#8221;) is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (&#8220;MAS&#8221;) under the Securities and Futures Act. Threadneedle Singapore holds a capital markets services license with MAS, and employees of Threadneedle Singapore engaging in regulated activities are required to be licensed. MAS rules impose certain capital, operational and compliance (including Senior Manager) requirements and allow for disciplinary action in the event of noncompliance. 

Threadneedle companies and activities are also subject to other local country regulations and regulators in Europe, Dubai, Hong Kong, the U.S., South Korea, South America and Australia. Additionally, many of our subsidiaries, including Columbia Management, are also subject to foreign, state and local laws with respect to advisory services that are offered and provided by these subsidiaries, including services provided to government pension plans. 

Other Securities Regulation 

Ameriprise Certificate Company is regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a registered investment company, Ameriprise Certificate Company must observe certain governance, disclosure, record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements. Ameriprise Certificate Company pays dividends to the parent company and is subject to capital requirements under applicable law and understandings with the SEC and the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division). 

ATC is primarily regulated by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division) and is subject to capital adequacy requirements under Minnesota law. It is prohibited from accepting deposits or making personal or commercial loans. As a provider of products and services to tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs, certain aspects of our business, including the activities of our trust company, fall within the compliance oversight of the DOL and the Department of Treasury, particularly regarding the enforcement of ERISA, and the tax reporting requirements applicable to such accounts. ATC, as well as our investment adviser subsidiaries, may be subject to ERISA, and the regulations thereunder, insofar as they act as a &#8220;fiduciary&#8221; under ERISA with respect to certain ERISA clients. 

Protection and Annuities Regulation 

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by states and other territories where they are domiciled or otherwise licensed to do business. The primary purpose of this regulation and supervision is to protect the interests of contractholders and policyholders. In general, state insurance laws and regulations govern standards of solvency, capital requirements, the licensing of insurers and their agents, premium rates, policy forms, the nature of and limitations on investments, periodic reporting requirements and other matters. In addition, state regulators conduct periodic examinations into insurer market conduct and compliance with insurance and securities laws. The Minnesota Department of Commerce, and the New York State Department of Financial Services (the &#8220;Domiciliary Regulators&#8221;) regulate certain of the RiverSource Life companies. In addition to being regulated by their Domiciliary Regulators, our RiverSource Life companies are regulated by each of the insurance regulators in the states where each is authorized to transact business. Financial regulation of our RiverSource Life companies is extensive, and their financial transactions (such as intercompany dividends and investment activity) may be subject to pre-approval and/or continuing evaluation by the Domiciliary Regulators. 

Aspects of the regulation applicable to our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment also apply to our Annuities and Protection segments. For example, RiverSource Distributors is registered as a broker-dealer for the limited purpose of acting as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource annuities and insurance products sold through AFS and third-party channels. Additionally, ERISA, the SEC&#8217;s best interest standards, state and other fiduciary or best interest rules, as well as other similar standards and any rulemaking from the DOL are relevant to our insurance business. We continue to review and analyze the potential impact of these regulations across each of our business lines. 

All states require participation in insurance guaranty associations, which assess fees to insurance companies in order to fund claims of policyholders and contractholders of insolvent insurance companies subject to statutory limits. These assessments are generally based on a member insurer&#8217;s proportionate share of all premiums written by member insurers in the state during a specified period prior to an insurer&#8217;s insolvency. See Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding guaranty association assessments. 

&#160; 22 

Certain variable annuity and variable life insurance policies offered by the RiverSource Life companies constitute and are registered as securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As such, these products are subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Securities regulators have recently increased their focus on the adequacy of disclosure regarding complex investment products, including variable annuities and life insurance products, and announced that they will continue to review actions by life insurers to improve profitability and reduce risks under in force annuity and insurance products with guaranteed benefits. 

The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) created the Federal Insurance Office (&#8220;FIO&#8221;) within the Department of Treasury. The FIO does not have substantive regulatory responsibilities, though it is tasked with monitoring the insurance industry and the effectiveness of its regulatory framework in addition to providing periodic reports to the President and Congress. We monitor the FIO&#8217;s activity to identify and assess emerging regulatory priorities with potential application to our business. 

Each of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to risk-based capital (&#8220;RBC&#8221;) requirements designed to assess the adequacy of an insurance company&#8217;s total adjusted capital in relation to its investment, insurance and other risks. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (&#8220;NAIC&#8221;) has established RBC standards that all state insurance departments have adopted. The RBC requirements are used by the NAIC and state insurance regulators to identify companies that merit regulatory actions designed to protect policyholders. The NAIC RBC report is completed as of December 31 and filed annually, along with the statutory financial statements. 

Our RiverSource Life companies are subject to various levels of regulatory intervention if their total adjusted statutory capital falls below defined RBC action levels. At the &#8220;company action level,&#8221; defined as total adjusted capital level between 100% and 75% of the RBC requirement, an insurer must submit a plan for corrective action with its primary state regulator. The level of regulatory intervention is greater at lower levels of total adjusted capital relative to the RBC requirement. RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY maintain capital levels well in excess of the company action level required by state insurance regulators as noted below as of December 31, 2019: 

##TABLE_START Entity 

&#160; 

Company Action Level RBC 

&#160; 

Total Adjusted Capital 

&#160; 

% of Company Action Level RBC 

&#160; 

&#160; 

(in millions, except percentages) 

RiverSource Life 

&#160; 

$ 

&#160; 

$ 

2,924 

&#160; 

% 

RiverSource Life of NY 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

% 

##TABLE_END

Ameriprise Financial, as a direct and indirect owner of its insurance subsidiaries, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the states where its insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. These laws generally require insurance holding companies to register with the insurance department of the insurance company&#8217;s state of domicile and to provide certain financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company structure. 

As part of its Solvency Modernization Initiative, in 2010 the NAIC adopted revisions to its Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (&#8220;Holding Company Act&#8221;) to enhance insurer group supervision and create a new Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (&#8220;ORSA&#8221;) Model Act. The Holding Company Act revisions focus on the overall insurance holding company system, establish a framework of regulator supervisory colleges, enhancements to corporate governance, and require the annual filing of an Enterprise Risk Management Report. The ORSA Model Act requires that an insurer create and file, annually, its Own Risk Solvency Assessment, which is a complete self-assessment of its risk management functions and capital adequacy. These laws were enacted by the domiciliary states of RiverSource Life: Minnesota and New York. We completed and filed these reports as required by the laws and regulations of those states. 

Federal Banking and Financial Holding Company Regulation 

Following conversion to a federal savings bank, Ameriprise Bank continues to be subject to regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"), which is the primary regulator of federal savings banks, and by the FDIC in its role as insurer of Ameriprise Bank's deposits. As a federally chartered savings bank, Ameriprise Bank is subject to numerous rules and regulations governing all aspects of the banking business, including lending practices and transactions with affiliates. Ameriprise Bank is also subject to specific capital rules and limits on capital distributions, including payment of dividends. If Ameriprise Bank's capital falls below certain levels, the OCC would be required to take remedial actions and could take other actions, including imposing further limits on dividends or business activities. In addition, an array of Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;), fair lending and other consumer protection laws and regulations apply to Ameriprise Bank. Either of the OCC or the FDIC may bring administrative enforcement actions against Ameriprise Bank or its officers, directors or employees if any of them are found to be in violation of the law or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice. 

As the controlling company of Ameriprise Bank, Ameriprise Financial is a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the FRB. In connection with the conversion, Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to applicable regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Further, FRB regulation and supervisory oversight of Ameriprise Financial includes examinations, regular financial reporting, and prudential standards, such as capital, liquidity risk management, and parameters for business conduct and internal governance. 

&#160; 23 

Under the Bank Holding Company Act, bank holding companies and their banking subsidiaries are generally limited to the business of banking and activities closely related or incidental to banking. As a financial holding company, we do not need approval: (1) to engage in other activities that the FRB, working with the Secretary of the Treasury, determined or in the future determines to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, or (2) to acquire shares of companies engaged in such activities. Activities that are financial in nature include, but are not limited to, providing financial or investment advice; securities underwriting and dealing; insurance underwriting; and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies, subject to significant limitation. We may not, however, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company or a bank without the prior approval of the FRB. 

In order to maintain Ameriprise&#8217;s status as a financial holding company, Ameriprise Bank, as Ameriprise&#8217;s sole insured depository institution subsidiary, must remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed&#8221; under applicable regulations, and must receive at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating in its most recent examination under the CRA. In addition, Ameriprise, as a financial holding company, must remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed&#8221; in order to maintain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements would mean, depending on the requirements not met and any agreement then reached with the FRB, that until cured, Ameriprise Financial could not undertake new activities, continue certain activities or make acquisitions other than those generally permissible for bank holding companies. 

After a conformance period, we will be subject to what is commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule (which is the subject of currently pending proposals that would further modify the rule). The Volcker Rule, as modified in 2019, prohibits &#8220;banking entities,&#8221; including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain &#8220;proprietary trading&#8221; activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with &#8220;covered funds,&#8221; with a number of exemptions and exclusions. It also requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule. 

The FRB proposed a new capital framework termed the &#8220;Building Block Approach&#8221; in September 2019 for savings and loan holding companies like Ameriprise that are significantly engaged in insurance activities (&#8220;ISLHCs&#8221;). In general, under the proposed rule ISLHCs would be required to aggregate state-based insurance capital requirements with banking capital requirements for non-insurance businesses to satisfy specific minimum total requirements and hold an additional capital conservation buffer. The proposed rule was followed by a public comment period that ended in January 2020. We were engaged with the FRB and through industry groups to assess and provide comments regarding potential refinements and improvements to the proposed rule. 

Additional Parent Company Regulation and Other Regulation 

Ameriprise Financial is a publicly traded company that is subject to SEC and New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) rules and regulations regarding public disclosure, financial reporting, internal controls and corporate governance. The adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act significantly enhanced those rules and regulations. 

We have operations in a number of geographical regions outside of the U.S. As such, we continuously monitor developments in EU legislation, as well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we comply with all applicable legal requirements, including EU directives applicable to financial institutions as implemented in the various member states. Because of the mix of business activities we conduct, we assess the impact of, and monitor our status under, the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive, which contemplates global supervision and prudential regulation of certain financial conglomerates involved in banking, insurance and investment activities. 

The FCA, which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;), has announced that it will not compel panel banks to contribute to LIBOR after 2021. It is likely that banks will not continue to provide submissions for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021 and possibly prior to then. It is expected that a transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates will occur over the next two years. Actions by regulators have resulted in the establishment of alternative reference rates to LIBOR in most major currencies. An enterprise-wide project has been formed and the Company&#8217;s significant analysis and readiness work will go through 2020. 

Privacy, Environmental and Anti-Money Laundering Laws 

Many aspects of our business are subject to comprehensive legal requirements concerning the use and protection of personal information, including client and employee information, from a multitude of different functional regulators and law enforcement bodies. This includes rules adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (&#8220;HITECH&#8221;) Act, an ever increasing number of state laws and regulations such as the New York State Department of Financial Services&#8217; Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies, the California Consumer Privacy Act, EU data protection legislation as implemented in the respective EU member states, and data protection rules in other regions in which we operate outside the U.S. and the EU (including GDPR). We have also implemented policies and procedures, including a cybersecurity incident response manual, in response to such requirements. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable laws and our internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other 

&#160; 24 

improper use or disclosure of personal information, while seeking to collect only the data that is necessary to properly achieve our business objectives and best serve our clients. 

As the owner and operator of real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We periodically conduct environmental reviews on our own real estate as well as investment real estate to assess and ensure our compliance with these laws and regulations. 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly referred to as the USA Patriot Act, was enacted in October 2001. It substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S. In response, we enhanced our existing anti-money laundering programs and developed new procedures and programs, including enhancing our &#8220;know your customer&#8221; and &#8220;due diligence&#8221; programs. In addition, we will continue to comply with anti-money laundering legislation in the UK derived from applicable EU directives and international initiatives adopted in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information 

We maintain an Investor Relations website at ir.ameriprise.com. Investors can also access the website through our main website at ameriprise.com by clicking on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; link located at the bottom of our homepage (ameriprise.com). We use our Investor Relations website to announce financial and other information to investors and to make available SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. Investors and others interested in the company are encouraged to visit the Investor Relations website from time to time, as information is continuously updated and posted. Additionally, users can sign up to receive automatic notifications when new materials are posted. The information found on the website is not incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document the Company furnishes or files with the SEC. 

