 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

We are including the following risk factor which should be read in conjunction with our risk factors provided in Part I, Item 1A of our 2019 10-K: 

The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for our business. 

The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (&#8216;&#8216;COVID-19&#8217;&#8217;) pandemic creates significant and pervasive societal, economic and market disruption globally. In particular, global financial markets have seen increased volatility and significant changes to the value of investments. If the value of assets under management decreases, our revenue and operating results could be substantially impacted. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on current and future developments. These developments are highly uncertain, including the scope, duration and severity of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our remote working and our phased office reopening plans, the measures that may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak (such as legislative action, stimulus, quarantines and travel restrictions, effectiveness of health care, and new or interim regulation), the actions of other third parties in response to the pandemic, and the possible further impacts on the global economy. Given the uncertainty of future developments, we seek to manage our risks effectively, but our ability to do so is subject to the inherent limitations of obtaining timely, reliable analysis and information in a situation that continues to develop. No assurance can be given that the steps we have taken will continue to be effective or appropriate. 

Starting in the end of the first quarter of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted (and will likely continue to impact) each of our business segments. Consumer demand, client investing decisions in light of ongoing economic uncertainty, our fee and investment income, our owned asset values, and our credit reserve and other financial or actuarial assumptions and reserve calculations have been (and may further be) negatively impacted from a decline and volatility of asset prices, reduction in interest rates, nonperformance credit spreads, credit deterioration, decreased liquidity in trading markets and other economic and market effects of the global pandemic. We are actively monitoring the potential direct and indirect impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our segments. The most significant impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the operational and financial results of our core business segments included: 

&#8226; In our Advice and Wealth Management segment, the significant reduction in interest rates, lower transactional activity from consumer demand and client investing decisions in light of ongoing economic uncertainty, and lower average equity markets; 

&#8226; In our Asset Management segment, lower average equity markets and changes in consumer demand and client investing decisions in light of ongoing economic uncertainty; and 

&#8226; In our Annuities and Protection segments, the significant reduction in interest rates and equity market levels on spread and fee income and the associated deferred acquisition cost amortization as well as changes in consumer demand and the operating environment that altered our mix of sales and product offerings. 

Should these conditions be prolonged or worsen for an extended time period, we could experience volatility and uncertainty in volumes, uncertainty in availability and price levels of financial assets and hedges, reduced client activity and fees, increased mortality and morbidity in our insurance policyholder base, increased constraints and costs of capital, possible impacts to our credit ratings and other negative impacts on our financial position. 

The COVID 19 pandemic may also affect the ability of our suppliers, distributors, vendors, reinsurers and other counterparties to provide products and services and otherwise fulfill their commitments to us. In addition, the market and economic uncertainty and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K. 

AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL, INC. 

