Introduction
First Horizon Corporation (NYSE common stock trading symbol “FHN”) is a financial holding company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. FHN’s principal subsidiary, and only banking subsidiary, is First Horizon Bank. Through the Bank and other subsidiaries, FHN offers commercial, private banking, consumer, small business, wealth and trust management, retail brokerage, capital markets, fixed income, and mortgage banking services.
At December 31, 2024, FHN had over 450 business locations in 24 states, including over 400 banking centers
in 12 states, and employed approximately 7,200 associates.
This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, as well as with the other information contained in this report.
Financial Performance Summary
FHN reported net income available to common shareholders of $738 million, or $1.36 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $865 million, or $1.54 per diluted share, for the same period of 2023.
Net interest income of $2.5 billion decreased $29 million compared to 2023, largely driven by higher funding costs, partially offset by higher loan yields and loan growth. The net interest margin decreased 7 basis points to 3.35% compared to 3.42% in 2023.
Provision for credit losses decreased to $150 million compared to $260 million in 2023, largely driven by lower net charge-offs in 2024. Net charge-offs were $112 million compared to $170 million in 2023, largely reflecting the prior year impact of an idiosyncratic credit loss on a single relationship.
Noninterest income of $679 million decreased $248 million from 2023, largely driven by a $225 million gain on merger termination in 2023. Results in 2024 were also impacted by $91 million in net securities losses from an opportunistic restructuring of a portion of the securities portfolio. The countercyclical businesses improved from cycle lows in 2023 as fixed income increased $54 million and mortgage banking income increased $12 million.
Noninterest expense of $2.0 billion decreased $44 million from 2023, largely attributable to $68 million in FDIC special assessment expense and a $50 million contribution to the First Horizon Foundation in the previous year, partially offset by increases in incentive-based compensation tied to higher commission-based revenue and strategic investments in technology.
Period-end loans and leases of $62.6 billion increased $1.3 billion from December 31, 2023, reflecting commercial loan growth of $1.0 billion, or 2%, and consumer loan growth of $273 million, or 2%.
Period-end deposits of $65.6 billion decreased $199 million from December 31, 2023, as a $1.2 billion decrease in noninterest-bearing deposits more than offset a $984 million increase in interest-bearing deposits.
Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios at December 31, 2024 were 12.22% and 13.87%, respectively, compared to 12.42% and 13.96% at December 31, 2023. The CET1 ratio was 11.20% at December 31, 2024 compared to 11.40% at December 31, 2023.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income is FHN's largest source of revenue and is the difference between the interest earned on interest-earning assets (generally loans, leases and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (generally deposits and borrowed funds). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the difference between the effective yield on average interest-earning assets and the effective cost of interest-bearing liabilities. These factors are influenced by the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as local economic conditions, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the FRB and market interest rates.
Net interest income of $2.5 billion in 2024 decreased $29 million, or 1%, from 2023. The decrease was largely attributable to higher funding costs, partially offset by higher loan yields and loan growth. Interest income increased $252 million, largely driven by higher interest on loans and leases of $299 million. Interest expense increased $281 million, largely from higher interest expense on deposits of $354 million, partially offset by a decline in interest on short-term borrowings of $80 million.
FHN's net interest margin decreased 7 basis points to 3.35% in 2024 compared to 2023 and the net interest spread decreased 6 basis points to 2.38% over the same period. The decline in the margin was attributable to a 35 basis point increase in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, partially offset by a 29 basis point increase in earning asset yields.
Total average earning assets increased $665 million in 2024, largely driven by average loan growth of $1.8 billion, partially offset by lower levels of interest-bearing deposits with banks and investment securities. Total average interest-bearing liabilities increased $3.0 billion, largely driven by average interest-bearing deposit growth of $4.4 billion, partially offset by a decrease in other short-term borrowings.
The following table presents the major components of net interest income and net interest margin.
Provision for Credit Losses
Provision for credit losses includes the provision for loan and lease losses and the provision for unfunded lending commitments. The provision for credit losses is the expense necessary to maintain the ALLL and the accrual for unfunded lending commitments at levels appropriate to absorb management’s estimate of credit losses expected over the life of the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded loan commitments.
Provision for credit losses decreased to $150 million in 2024, compared to $260 million in 2023. Net charge-offs were $112 million in 2024 compared to $170 million in 2023. The higher level of provision and net charge-offs in 2023 largely reflects the impact of a $72 million idiosyncratic credit loss on a single relationship in 2023.
For additional information about general asset quality trends refer to the Asset Quality section in this MD&A.
Noninterest Income
The following table presents the significant components of noninterest income for each of the periods presented.
Noninterest income of $679 million decreased $248 million from $927 million in 2023, largely driven by the $225 million gain on merger termination in 2023. Results in 2024 also reflect higher securities losses due to an opportunistic restructuring of a portion of the securities portfolio, partially offset by improvements in fixed income and mortgage banking income. Noninterest income represented 21% and 27% of total revenue for 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Fixed income improved $54 million, or 41%, for 2024 compared to 2023. Fixed income product revenue increased $58 million, largely driven by more favorable market conditions. Revenue from other products decreased $4 million, largely driven by lower investment advisory fees due to the sale of the assets of FHN Financial Main Street Advisors in fourth quarter 2023 and lower derivative sales.
Brokerage, management fees and commissions of $101 million increased $11 million, or 12%, as strong market performance improved wealth management fees.
Mortgage banking income of $35 million increased $12 million from $23 million in 2023, largely driven by higher secondary volume.
Securities losses in 2024 reflect the impact of $91 million in losses on the sale of AFS securities tied to an opportunistic restructuring of a portion of the securities portfolio during the fourth quarter of 2024.
Other income included a gain of $9 million on the disposition of the assets of FHN Financial Main Street Advisors in 2023.
Noninterest expense of $2.0 billion decreased $44 million, or 2%, compared to 2023.
Personnel expense of $1.1 billion increased $37 million compared to 2023, reflecting higher salaries and benefits expense and incentive-based compensation, partially offset by the decrease to merger-related expenses, as there were no merger and integration expenses in 2024 compared to $51 million in 2023.
Net occupancy expense increased $7 million, computer software expense increased $10 million and legal and professional fees increased $15 million in 2024, largely attributable to strategic investments.
Deposit insurance expense declined $58 million, largely attributable to $68 million in special assessment expense in 2023, compared to $9 million in 2024.
Advertising and public relations expense decreased $23 million from 2023, largely attributable to the end of deposit campaign and brand awareness initiatives that were launched in 2023.
Contributions decreased $43 million, largely attributable to a $50 million contribution to the First Horizon Foundation in 2023 following the termination of the TD Transaction, compared to a $10 million contribution in 2024.
There were no merger and integration related expenses in 2024 compared to $51 million in 2023. Restructuring expenses were $14 and $10 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Income Taxes
FHN recorded income tax expense of $211 million in 2024 compared to $212 million in 2023, resulting in an effective tax rate of 21.0% and 18.8%, respectively.
FHN’s effective tax rate is favorably affected by recurring items such as tax credits and other tax benefits from tax credit investments, tax-exempt income, and bank-owned life insurance. The effective rate is unfavorably affected by the non-deductible portions of FDIC premium, executive compensation, and merger expenses. FHN's effective tax rate also may be affected by items that may occur in any
given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as changes in unrecognized tax benefits. The rate also may be affected by items resulting from business combinations. During 2024, FHN recognized net favorable discrete items primarily attributable to the lapse of the statute of limitations for uncertain positions. In 2023, the reduction in the rate from the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 21% was primarily related to the benefit from the settlement of uncertain tax positions related to prior merger-related items, which was partially
offset by the additional tax expense from the surrender of bank-owned life insurance policies.
A deferred tax asset ("DTA") or deferred tax liability is recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. The tax consequence is calculated by applying current enacted statutory tax rates to these temporary differences in future years. FHN’s net DTA was $227 million and $215 million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
As of December 31, 2024, FHN had DTA balances related to federal and state income tax carryforwards of $29 million and $3 million, respectively, which will expire at various dates. Refer to Note 14 - Income Taxes for additional information.
FHN’s gross DTA after valuation allowance was $768 million and $737 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Based on current analysis, FHN believes that its ability to realize the DTA is more likely
than not. FHN monitors its DTA and the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. A significant adverse change in FHN’s taxable earnings outlook could result in the need for a valuation allowance.
FHN and its eligible subsidiaries are included in a consolidated federal income tax return. FHN files separate returns for subsidiaries that are not eligible to be included in a consolidated federal income tax return. Based on the laws of the applicable states where it conducts business operations, FHN either files consolidated, combined, or separate returns. The statute of limitations for FHN’s consolidated federal income tax returns remains open for tax years 2021 through 2023. On occasion, as federal or state auditors examine the tax returns of FHN and its subsidiaries, FHN may extend the statute of limitations for a reasonable period. Otherwise, the statutes of limitations remain open only for tax years in accordance with federal and state statutes. See Note 14 - Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional information.
Business Segment Results
During 2024, FHN reorganized its internal management structure and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure. Prior to the restructure, FHN's reportable segments were Regional Banking, Specialty Banking, and Corporate. As a result of the restructure, FHN revised its reportable segments to include: (1) Commercial, Consumer & Wealth, (2) Wholesale, and (3) Corporate. Segment results for years prior to 2024 have been recast to adjust for the realignment of the segment reporting structure. See Note 19 - Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional disclosures related to FHN's segments.
2024 vs. 2023
Commercial, Consumer & Wealth
The Commercial, Consumer & Wealth segment generated pre-tax income of $1.4 billion in 2024 compared to $1.5 billion in 2023, a decrease of $83 million.
Net interest income of $2.5 billion decreased $151 million, reflecting higher funding costs, partially offset by the benefit of higher interest rates and average loan balances.
Provision for credit losses decreased $102 million, largely reflecting the impact of a $72 million credit loss on a single relationship in 2023.
Noninterest income increased $13 million, largely driven by an $11 million increase in brokerage, management fees and commissions as strong market performance improved wealth management fees.
Noninterest expense increased $47 million, largely driven by higher personnel expense and other expenses related to strategic investments.
Wholesale
Pre-tax income of $122 million in the Wholesale segment increased $56 million compared to 2023, largely reflecting a $67 million increase in revenue tied to improvements in fixed income and mortgage banking income. Fixed income of $187 million increased $53 million, largely driven by more favorable market conditions. Mortgage banking income of $33 million increased $12 million, largely driven by higher secondary volume.
Noninterest expense of $299 million increased $23 million, largely due to an increase in incentive-based compensation expense tied to the improvement in fixed income and mortgage banking income.
Corporate
Pre-tax loss for the Corporate segment was $546 million for 2024 compared to $450 million for 2023.
Net interest income (expense) improved $111 million compared to 2023, primarily driven by the impact of the funds transfer pricing methodology.
Noninterest income decreased $317 million, largely attributable to the $225 million gain on merger termination in 2023 and $91 million in net securities losses tied to an opportunistic restructuring of a portion of the AFS securities portfolio in 2024.
Noninterest expense of $319 million for 2024 decreased $114 million compared to 2023, largely driven by lower FDIC special assessment expense, lower contributions to the First Horizon Foundation, and a decline in advertising and public relations expense. Restructuring expenses totaled $14 million and $10 million for 2024 and 2023,
respectively. There were no merger and integration expenses in 2024 compared to $51 million in 2023.
2023 vs. 2022
Commercial, Consumer & Wealth
The Commercial, Consumer & Wealth segment generated pre-tax income of $1.5 billion in 2023 compared to $1.3 billion in 2022, an increase of $164 million, driven by a $400 million increase in revenue largely tied to higher net interest income, partially offset by a $175 million increase in provision for credit losses and a $61 million increase in noninterest expense.
Net interest income of $2.7 billion increased $429 million, reflecting the benefit of higher interest rates and average loan balances, partially offset by higher funding costs.
The increase in the provision for credit losses largely reflected loan growth, macroeconomic uncertainty, and modest grade migration.
The increase in noninterest expense was largely driven by higher personnel, deposit insurance, advertising and public relations, and technology-related expenses.
Wholesale
Pre-tax income of $66 million in the Wholesale segment decreased $91 million compared to 2022, largely reflecting a $155 million decrease in revenue tied to lower fixed income, mortgage banking income, and net interest income. The decrease in revenue was partially offset by a $68 million decrease in noninterest expense.
Income from the fixed income business of $134 million decreased $71 million, largely driven by less favorable market conditions.
Mortgage banking income of $21 million decreased $25 million largely driven by lower origination volume given the impact of higher long-term rates. Results in 2022 also reflected a $12 million gain on sale of mortgage servicing rights.
Noninterest expense of $276 million decreased $68 million, largely due to lower incentive-based compensation expense tied to the decline in fixed income and mortgage banking income.
Corporate
Pre-tax loss for the Corporate segment was $450 million for 2023 compared to $346 million for 2022.
Noninterest income increased $226 million, largely driven by the gain on merger termination. Noninterest income results also reflect lower securities gains of $22 million in 2023 and a $22 million gain on sale of the title business in 2022.
Noninterest expense of $433 million for 2023 increased $133 million compared to 2022, largely driven by higher deposit insurance expense, a $50 million contribution to the First Horizon Foundation, and higher personnel expense. Merger and integration expense was $51 million in 2023 compared to $136 million in 2022.
FHN’s investment securities portfolio consists principally of debt securities available for sale. FHN maintains a securities portfolio consisting primarily of bank-eligible GSE and GNMA issued mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. The securities portfolio provides a source of income and liquidity and is an important tool used to balance the interest rate risk of the loan and deposit portfolios. The securities portfolio is periodically evaluated in light of established ALM objectives, changing market conditions that could affect the profitability of the portfolio, the regulatory environment, and the level of interest rate risk to which FHN is exposed. These evaluations may result in steps taken to adjust the overall balance sheet positioning.
Investment securities were $9.2 billion and $9.7 billion on December 31, 2024 and 2023, representing 11% and 12%
of total assets, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2024, as part of an opportunistic restructuring of a portion of the securities portfolio, FHN sold $1.2 billion of AFS securities, which resulted in realized losses of $91 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. See Note 2 - Investment Securities to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information about the securities portfolio.
The following table presents an analysis of the amortized cost, remaining contractual maturities, and weighted-average yields by contractual maturity for the debt securities portfolio.
Because of various factors, the contractual maturities of consumer loans are not indicative of the actual lives of such loans. A significant component of FHN’s loan portfolio consists of consumer real estate loans, a majority of which are home equity lines of credit and home equity installment loans. These loans have an initial period where the borrower is only required to pay the periodic interest. After the interest-only period, the loan will require the payment of both principal and interest over the remaining term. Numerous factors can contribute to the actual life of a home equity line or installment loan. As a result, the actual average life of home equity lines and loans is difficult to predict, and changes in any of these factors could result in changes in projections of average lives.
Loans Held for Sale
Loans held for sale primarily consists of government guaranteed loans under SBA and USDA lending programs.
Smaller amounts of other consumer and home equity loans are also included in loans HFS. Additionally, FHN's mortgage banking operations include origination and servicing of residential first lien mortgages that conform to standards established by GSEs that are major investors in U.S. home mortgages but can also consist of junior lien and jumbo loans secured by residential property. These non-conforming loans are primarily sold to private companies that are unaffiliated with the GSEs on a servicing-released basis. For further detail, see Note 7 - Mortgage Banking Activity to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
On December 31, 2024 and 2023, loans HFS were $551 million and $502 million, respectively. Held-for-sale consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in process of foreclosure totaled $1 million and $2 million for December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Asset Quality
Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition
FHN groups its loans into portfolio segments based on internal classifications reflecting the manner in which the ALLL is established and how credit risk is measured, monitored, and reported. From time to time, and if conditions are such that certain subsegments are uniquely affected by economic or market conditions or are experiencing greater deterioration than other components of the loan portfolio, management may
determine the ALLL at a more granular level. Commercial loans are composed of C&I loans and leases and CRE loans. Consumer loans are composed of consumer real estate loans and credit card and other loans. FHN had a concentration of residential real estate loans of 23% of total loans as of both December 31, 2024 and 2023. Industry concentrations are discussed under the C&I heading below.
Underwriting Policies and Procedures
The following sections describe each portfolio as well as general underwriting procedures for each. As economic and real estate conditions develop, enhancements to underwriting and credit policies and procedures may be necessary or desirable. Loan policies and procedures for all portfolios are reviewed by credit risk working groups and management risk committees comprised of business line managers and credit administration professionals as well as by various other reviewing bodies within FHN. Policies and procedures are approved by key executives and/or senior managers leading the applicable credit risk working groups as well as by management risk committees.
The credit risk working groups and management risk committees strive to ensure that the approved policies and procedures address the associated risks and establish reasonable underwriting criteria that appropriately mitigate risk. Policies and procedures are reviewed, revised and re-issued periodically at established review dates or earlier if changes in the economic environment, portfolio performance, the size of portfolio or industry concentrations, or regulatory guidance warrant an earlier review.
Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolios
FHN’s commercial loan approval process grants lending authority based upon job description, experience, and performance. The lending authority is delegated to the business line (Market Managers, Departmental Managers, Regional Presidents, Relationship Managers ("RM") and Portfolio Managers ("PM") and to Credit Officers. While individual limits vary, the predominant amount of approval authority is vested with the Credit function. Portfolio, industry, and borrower concentration limits for the various portfolios are established by executive management and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board.
FHN’s commercial lending process incorporates an RM and a PM for most commercial credits. The RM is primarily responsible for communications with the borrower and maintaining the relationship, while the PM is responsible for assessing the credit quality of the borrower, beginning with the initial underwriting and continuing through the servicing period. Other specialists and the assigned RM/PM are organized into units called relationship teams. Relationship teams are constructed with specific job attributes that facilitate FHN’s ability to identify, mitigate, document, and manage ongoing risk. PMs and credit analysts provide enhanced analytical support during loan origination and servicing, including monitoring of the financial condition of the borrower and tracking compliance with loan agreements. Loan closing officers
and the construction loan management unit specialize in loan documentation and the management of the construction lending process. FHN strives to identify problem assets early through comprehensive policies and guidelines, targeted portfolio reviews, more frequent servicing on lower rated borrowers, and an emphasis on frequent grading. For smaller commercial credits, generally $5 million or less, and income-producing CRE credits greater than $10 million to non-professional real estate developers and smaller professional real estate investors/developers, FHN utilizes a centralized underwriting unit in order to originate and grade these credits more efficiently and consistently.
C&I
C&I loans are the largest component of the loan and lease portfolio, comprising 53% of total loans and leases at both December 31, 2024 and 2023. The C&I portfolio is comprised of loans used for general business purposes. Products offered in the C&I portfolio include term loan financing, direct financing and sales-type leases, lines of credit, and trade credit enhancement through letters of credit.
Income-producing C&I loans are underwritten in accordance with a well-defined credit origination process. This process includes applying minimum underwriting standards as well as separation of origination and credit
approval roles on transaction sizes over PM authorization limits. Underwriting typically includes due diligence of the borrower and the applicable industry of the borrower, analysis of the borrower’s available financial information, identification and analysis of the various sources of repayment and identification of the primary risk attributes. Stress testing the borrower’s financial capacity, adherence to loan documentation requirements, and assigning credit risk grades using internally developed scorecards are also used to help quantify the risk when appropriate. Underwriting parameters also include loan-to-value ratios which vary depending on collateral type, use of guaranties, loan agreement requirements, and other recommended terms such as equity requirements, amortization, and maturity. Approval decisions also consider various financial ratios and performance measures of the borrowers, such as cash flow and balance sheet leverage, liquidity, coverage of fixed charges, and working capital. Additionally, approval decisions consider the capital structure of the borrower, sponsorship, and quality/value of collateral. Generally, guideline and policy
exceptions are identified and mitigated during the approval process. Pricing of C&I loans is based upon tenor and the determined credit risk specific to the individual borrower. Historically, the majority of these loans typically have variable rates tied to SOFR, as the primary replacement index for LIBOR, or prime rate of interest plus or minus the appropriate margin.
The largest geographical concentrations of balances as of December 31, 2024 were in Tennessee (20%), Florida (12%), Texas (11%), North Carolina (7%), California (6%), and Louisiana (6%) with no other state representing 5% or more of the portfolio.
The following table provides the composition of the C&I portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2024 and 2023. For purposes of this disclosure, industries are determined based on the NAICS industry codes used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the collection, analysis, and publication of statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.
Industry Concentrations
Loan concentrations are considered to exist for a financial institution when there are loans to numerous borrowers engaged in similar activities that would cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. Loans to mortgage companies and borrowers in the finance and insurance industry were 21% and 18% of FHN’s C&I loan portfolio as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and as a result could be affected by items that uniquely impact the financial services industry. Loans to borrowers in the real estate and rental and leasing industry were 12% of FHN's C&I portfolio as of both December 31, 2024
and 2023. As of December 31, 2024, FHN did not have any other concentrations of C&I loans in any single industry of 10% or more of total loans.
Real Estate and Rental and Leasing
Loans to borrowers in the real estate and rental and leasing industry were 12% of FHN's C&I portfolio as of both December 31, 2024 and 2023. This portfolio primarily consists of equipment financing loans and leases to clients across FHN's footprint in a broad range of industries and asset types. This portfolio also includes a smaller balance of loans and leases for solar and wind generating facilities.
Finance and Insurance
The finance and insurance component represented 11% and 12% of the C&I portfolio as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and includes TRUPs (i.e., long-term unsecured loans to bank and insurance-related businesses), loans to bank holding companies, and asset-based lending to consumer finance companies. As of December 31, 2024, asset-based lending to consumer finance companies represents approximately $1.9 billion of the finance and insurance component.
Loans to Mortgage Companies
Loans to mortgage companies were 10% and 6% of the C&I portfolio as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. This portfolio includes commercial lines of credit to qualified mortgage companies primarily for the temporary warehousing of eligible mortgage loans prior to the borrower's sale of those mortgage loans to third party investors. Balances in this portfolio generally fluctuate with mortgage rates and seasonal factors. Generally, new loan originations to mortgage lenders increase when there is a decline in mortgage rates and decrease when rates rise. In periods of economic uncertainty, this trend may not occur even if interest rates are declining. In 2024, approximately 78% of the loan originations were home purchases and 22% were refinance transactions.
Commercial Real Estate
The CRE portfolio totaled $14.4 billion as of December 31, 2024, a $205 million, or 1%, increase compared to December 31, 2023, largely driven by growth in multi-family loans, partially offset by decreases across multiple other property types.
The CRE portfolio includes both financings for commercial construction and non-construction loans. This portfolio contains loans, draws on lines, and letters of credit to commercial real estate developers for the construction and mini-permanent financing of income-producing real estate.
Residential CRE loans include loans to residential builders and developers for the purpose of constructing single-family homes, condominiums, and town homes, and on a limited basis, for developing residential subdivisions. The residential CRE class is not currently an area of growth for the bank.
Income-producing CRE loans
Income-producing CRE loans are underwritten in accordance with credit policies and underwriting guidelines that are formally reviewed at a minimum of once every three years and revised as necessary based on
market conditions. Loans are underwritten based upon project type, size, location, sponsorship, and other market-specific data. Generally, minimum requirements for equity, debt service coverage ratios, and level of pre-leasing activity are established based on perceived risk in each subcategory. Loan-to-value limits are set below regulatory prescribed ceilings and generally range between 50% and 80% depending on the underlying product type. Term and amortization requirements are set based on prudent standards for interim real estate lending. Equity requirements are established based on the quality and liquidity of the primary source of repayment. For example, more equity would be required for a speculative construction project or land loan than for a property fully leased to a credit tenant or a roster of tenants. Typically, a borrower must have at least 15% of cost invested in a project before FHN will provide loan funding. Income properties are generally required to achieve a debt service coverage ratio greater than or equal to 1.25x at inception or stabilization of the project based on loan amortization and a minimum underwriting interest rate. Some product types that possess a greater risk profile require a higher level of equity, as well as a higher debt service coverage ratio threshold. A proprietary minimum underwriting interest rate is used to calculate compliance with underwriting standards. Generally, specific levels of pre-leasing must be met for construction loans on income properties, where applicable. A global cash flow analysis is typically performed at the sponsor level.
The credit administration and ongoing monitoring consists of multiple internal control processes. Construction loans are closed by a centralized control unit and construction loan management is administered centrally for loans $3 million and over. Underwriters and credit approval personnel stress the borrower’s/project’s financial capacity utilizing numerous attributes such as interest rates, vacancy, capitalization rates, and debt service coverage ratios under various scenarios. Key information is captured from the various portfolios and then stressed at the aggregate level. Results are utilized to assist with the assessment of the adequacy of the ALLL and to steer portfolio management strategies.
The largest geographical concentrations of CRE balances as of December 31, 2024 were in Florida (26%), Texas (13%), North Carolina (13%), Georgia (10%), Tennessee (9%), and Louisiana (7%), with no other state representing more than 5% of the portfolio.
The following table represents subcategories of CRE loans by property type.
Consumer Loan Portfolios
Consumer Real Estate
The consumer real estate portfolio is primarily composed of home equity lines and installment loans. This portfolio totaled $14.0 billion and $13.7 billion as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The largest geographical concentrations of balances in the consumer real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2024 were in Florida (29%), Tennessee (22%), Texas (12%), Louisiana (8%), North Carolina (7%), Georgia (6%), and New York (5%), with no other state representing 5% or more of the portfolio.
As of December 31, 2024, approximately 89% of the consumer real estate portfolio was in a first lien position. At origination, the weighted average FICO score of this portfolio was 759 and the refreshed FICO scores averaged 756 as of December 31, 2024, no change from those as of December 31, 2023. Generally, performance of this portfolio is affected by life events that affect borrowers’ finances, the level of unemployment, and home prices.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, FHN had held-to-maturity consumer mortgage loans secured by real estate totaling $26 million and $29 million, respectively, that were in the process of foreclosure.
HELOCs comprised $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion of the consumer real estate portfolio for December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. FHN’s HELOCs typically have a 5 or 10
year draw period followed by a 10 or 20 year repayment period, respectively. During the draw period, a borrower is able to draw on the line and is only required to make interest payments. The line is frozen if a borrower becomes past due on payments. Once the draw period has concluded, the line is closed and the borrower is required to make both principal and interest payments monthly until the loan matures. The principal payment generally is fully amortizing, but payment amounts will adjust when variable rates reset to reflect changes in the prime rate.
As of December 31, 2024, approximately 95% of FHN's HELOCs were in the draw period compared to 94% at the end of 2023. Based on when draw periods are scheduled to end per the line agreements, it is expected that $598 million, or 30%, of HELOCs currently in the draw period will enter the repayment period during the next 60 months, based on current terms. Generally, delinquencies for HELOCs that have entered the repayment period are initially higher than HELOCs still in the draw period because of the increased minimum payment requirement. However, over time, performance of these loans usually begins to stabilize. HELOCs nearing the end of the draw period are closely monitored.
The following table shows the HELOCs currently in the draw period and expected timing of conversion to the repayment period.
Underwriting
For loans in this portfolio, underwriting decisions are made through a centralized loan underwriting center. To obtain a consumer real estate loan, the loan applicant(s) must first meet a minimum qualifying FICO score. Minimum FICO score requirements are established by management for both loans secured by real estate as well as non-real estate loans. Management also establishes maximum loan amounts, loan-to-value ratios, and debt-to-income ratios for each consumer real estate product. Applicants must have the financial capacity (or available income) to service the debt by not exceeding a calculated debt-to-income ratio. The amount of the loan is limited to a percentage of the lesser of the current appraised value or sales price of the collateral. Identified guideline and policy exceptions require established mitigating factors that have been approved for use by Credit.
HELOC interest rates are variable and adjust with movements in the index rate stated in the loan agreement. Such loans can have elevated risk of default, particularly in a rising interest rate environment, potentially stressing borrower capacity to repay the loan at the higher interest rate. FHN’s current underwriting practice requires HELOC borrowers to qualify based on a sensitized interest rate (above the current note rate), fully amortized payment methodology. FHN’s underwriting
guidelines require borrowers to qualify at an interest rate that is 200 basis points above the note rate. This mitigates risk to FHN in the event of a sharp rise in interest rates over a relatively short time horizon.
HELOC Portfolio Risk Management
FHN performs continuous HELOC account reviews to identify higher-risk home equity lines and initiate preventative and corrective actions. The reviews consider a number of account activity patterns and characteristics such as the number of times delinquent within recent periods, changes in credit bureau score since origination, score degradation, performance of the first lien, and account utilization. In accordance with FHN’s interpretation of regulatory guidance, FHN may block future draws on accounts in order to mitigate risk of loss to FHN.


Credit Card and Other
The credit card and other consumer loan portfolio totaled $669 million as of December 31, 2024 and $793 million as of December 31, 2023. This portfolio primarily consists of consumer-related credits, including home equity and other personal consumer loans, credit card receivables, and automobile loans. The $124 million decrease was driven by net repayments.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The ACL is maintained at a level sufficient to provide appropriate reserves to absorb estimated future credit losses in accordance with GAAP. For additional information regarding the ACL, see Notes 1 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
The ALLL increased to $815 million as of December 31, 2024, or 1.30% of total loans and leases, compared to
$773 million, or 1.26% of total loans and leases, at the end of 2023. The ACL to total loans and leases ratio increased to 1.43% as of December 31, 2024 from 1.40% as of December 31, 2023. The increase in the ALLL balance reflects negative grade migration in the commercial loan portfolio.
Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming loans are loans placed on nonaccrual if it becomes evident that full collection of principal and interest is at risk, if impairment has been recognized as a partial charge-off of principal balance due to insufficient collateral value and past due status, or (on a case-by-case basis) if FHN continues to receive payments but there are other borrower-specific issues. Included in nonaccrual are loans for which FHN continues to receive payments, including residential real estate loans where the borrower has been discharged of personal obligation through bankruptcy. NPAs consist of nonperforming loans and leases and OREO (excluding OREO from government-insured mortgages).
Total NPAs (including NPLs HFS) increased $139 million to $608 million as of December 31, 2024, largely driven by an increase in nonaccrual CRE loans, partially offset by decreases in nonaccrual C&I and nonaccrual consumer real estate loans. The increase in nonaccrual CRE loans was largely driven by multi-family and office property types. Multi-family has been affected by strong supply, which is expected to be absorbed at a modestly slower rate than experienced in recent years. Office performance has been strong for the medical segment, while traditional office has been impacted by the continued influence of remote work on occupancy levels. These portfolios continue to maintain strong underwriting and client selection. In addition, over 60% of the commercial
Past Due Loans and Potential Problem Assets
Past due loans are loans contractually past due as to interest or principal payments, but which have not yet been put on nonaccrual status.


Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing were $21 million as of both December 31, 2024 and 2023. Loans
30 to 89 days past due and still accruing were $89 million as of December 31, 2024 compared to $85 million as of December 31, 2023, largely reflecting higher consumer real estate past due loan balances, partially offset by lower past due CRE loan balances.
Potential problem assets represent those assets where information about possible credit problems of borrowers has caused management to have serious doubts about the borrower’s ability to comply with present repayment terms and includes loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing. This definition is believed to be substantially consistent with the standards established by the Federal banking regulators for loans classified as substandard. Potential problem assets in the loan portfolio increased to $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2024, compared to $666 million as of year-end 2023. This increase was largely
attributable to grade migration in the multi-family and office portfolios. Multi-family has been affected by strong supply, which is expected to be absorbed at a modestly slower rate than experienced in recent years. Office performance has been strong for the medical segment, while traditional office has been impacted by the continued influence of remote work on occupancy levels. These portfolios continue to maintain strong underwriting and client selection. The current expectation of losses from potential problem assets has been included in
management’s analysis for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Modifications to Borrowers Experiencing Financial Difficulty
As part of FHN’s ongoing risk management practices, FHN attempts to work with borrowers when appropriate to extend or modify loan terms to better align with their current ability to repay. Modifications to loans are made in accordance with internal policies and guidelines which conform to regulatory guidance. Each occurrence is unique to the borrower and is evaluated separately. See Note 1 - Significant Accounting Policies, Note 3 - Loans and Leases and Note 4 - Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion regarding troubled loan modifications.
Commercial Loan Modifications
As part of FHN’s credit risk management governance processes, the Special Assets Department ("SAD") is responsible for managing most commercial relationships with borrowers whose financial condition has deteriorated to such an extent that the credits are individually reviewed for expected credit losses, classified as substandard or worse, placed on nonaccrual status, foreclosed or in process of foreclosure, or in active or contemplated litigation. SAD has the authority and responsibility to enter into workout and/or rehabilitation agreements with troubled commercial borrowers in order to mitigate and/or minimize the amount of credit losses recognized from these problem assets. While every circumstance is different, SAD will generally use forbearance agreements (generally 6-12 months) as an element of commercial loan workouts, which might include reduced interest rates, reduced payments, release of guarantor, term extensions or entering into short sale agreements. Principal forgiveness may be granted in specific workout circumstances.
The individual expected credit loss assessments completed on commercial loans may be used in evaluating
the appropriateness of qualitative adjustments to quantitatively modeled loss expectations for loans that are not considered collateral dependent. If a loan is collateral dependent, the carrying amount of a loan is written down to the net realizable value of the collateral. Each assessment considers any modified terms and is comprehensive to ensure appropriate assessment of expected credit losses.
Consumer Loan Modifications
FHN does not currently participate in any of the loan modification programs sponsored by the U.S. government for its portfolio loans, but does generally structure modified consumer loans using the parameters of the former Home Affordable Modification Program ("HAMP").
Within the HELOC and permanent mortgage installment loans in the consumer portfolio segment, troubled loans are typically modified by reducing the interest rate (in increments of 25 basis points to a minimum of 3%) and a possible maturity date extension of up to 30 years to reach an affordable housing debt-to-income ratio.
Within the credit card class of the consumer portfolio segment, troubled loans are typically modified through either a short-term credit card hardship program or a longer-term credit card workout program. In the credit card hardship program, borrowers may be granted rate and payment reductions for 6 months to 1 year. In the credit card workout program, clients are granted a rate reduction to 0% and term extensions for up to 5 years to pay off the remaining balance.
Consumer loans may also be modified through court-imposed principal reductions in bankruptcy proceedings, which FHN is required to honor unless a borrower reaffirms the related debt.
Deposits
Total deposits of $65.6 billion as of December 31, 2024 decreased $199 million compared to December 31, 2023. Interest-bearing deposits increased $984 million and noninterest-bearing deposits decreased $1.2 billion.
FHN continues to maintain a well-diversified and stable funding mix across its footprint and specialty lines of business. At December 31, 2024, commercial deposits were $36.2 billion, or 55% of total deposits, and consumer deposits were $29.4 billion, or 45% of total deposits. At December 31, 2023, commercial deposits were $35.9 billion, or 55% of total deposits, and consumer deposits were $29.9 billion, or 45% of total deposits.
At December 31, 2024, 37% of deposits were associated with Tennessee, 18% with Florida, 13% with North Carolina, and 12% with Louisiana, with no other state above 10%. This mix remained relatively consistent with the previous year-end.
Total estimated uninsured deposits were $26.7 billion, or 41% of total deposits, and $26.8 billion, or 41% of total deposits, as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Of the uninsured deposits as of December 31, 2024, $4.7 billion, or 7% of total deposits, were collateralized. As of December 31, 2023, collateralized deposits were $5.3 billion, or 8% of total deposits.
The following tables present the major components of FHN's total deposits for 2024 and 2023, FHN's total estimated uninsured deposits for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the maturities of FHN's uninsured time deposits as of December 31, 2024 and 2023. See Table 7.2 - Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Yields/Rates in this Report for information on average deposits, including average rates paid.
Short-Term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings include federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, trading liabilities, and other short-term borrowings. Total short-term borrowings were $4.0 billion and $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in short-term borrowings was largely driven by an increase of $600 million in FHLB borrowings and an increase of $132 million in federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
Short-term borrowings balances fluctuate largely based on the level of FHLB borrowing as a result of loan demand, deposit levels and balance sheet funding strategies.
Trading liabilities fluctuate based on various factors, including levels of trading securities and hedging strategies. Federal funds purchased fluctuates depending on the amount of excess funding of FHN's correspondent bank customers. Balances of securities sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate based on cost attractiveness relative to FHLB borrowing levels and the ability to pledge securities toward such transactions. See Note 9 - Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional information.
Term Borrowings
Term borrowings include senior and subordinated borrowings with original maturities greater than one year. Total term borrowings were $1.2 billion as of both
December 31, 2024 and 2023. See Note 10 - Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional information.
Capital
Management’s objectives are to provide capital sufficient to cover the risks inherent in FHN’s businesses, to maintain excess capital to well-capitalized standards, and to ensure ready access to the capital markets.
Total equity of $9.1 billion decreased $180 million compared to December 31, 2023. Significant changes included net income of $794 million and an increase of $60 million in AOCI, offset by $626 million in common stock repurchases, $358 million in common and preferred
dividends, and $100 million from the Series D Preferred Stock redemption.
The following tables provide a reconciliation of shareholders’ equity from the Consolidated Balance Sheets to Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1, and Total Regulatory Capital, as well as certain selected capital ratios.
Banking regulators define minimum capital ratios for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. Based on the capital rules and definitions prescribed by the banking regulators, should any depository institution’s capital ratios decline below predetermined levels, it would become subject to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions.
The system categorizes a depository institution’s capital position into one of five categories ranging from well-capitalized to critically under-capitalized. For an institution the size of FHN to qualify as well-capitalized, Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital, and Leverage capital ratios must be at least 6.50%, 8.00%, 10.00%, and 5.00%, respectively. Furthermore, a capital conservation buffer of 50 basis points above these levels must be maintained on the Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios to avoid restrictions on dividends, share repurchases and certain discretionary bonuses.
As of December 31, 2024, both FHN and First Horizon Bank had sufficient capital to qualify as well-capitalized
institutions and to meet the capital conservation buffer requirement. Capital ratios for both FHN and First Horizon Bank as of December 31, 2024 are calculated under the final rule issued by the banking regulators in 2020 to delay the effects of CECL on regulatory capital for two years, followed by a three-year transition period.
For both FHN and First Horizon Bank, the risk-based regulatory capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios decreased in 2024 relative to 2023 primarily from the impact of common share repurchases. The Series D Preferred Stock redemption in 2024 did not impact FHN's regulatory capital ratios as it did not qualify as Tier 1 capital because the earliest redemption date was less than five years from the issuance date.
During 2025, capital ratios are expected to remain above well-capitalized standards plus the required capital conservation buffer.
Stress Testing
The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, along with an interagency regulatory statement effectively exempted both FHN and First Horizon Bank from Dodd-Frank Act stress testing requirements starting in 2018.
For 2024, FHN and First Horizon Bank completed a company run stress test using the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") scenarios published in February 2024. Results of these tests indicate that both FHN and First Horizon Bank would be able to maintain capital well in excess of Basel III Adequately Capitalized standards under the hypothetical severe global recession of the 2024 CCAR Severely Adverse scenario. A summary of those results was posted in the “Fixed Income - Stress
Test Results” section on FHN’s investor relations website on July 30, 2024. Neither FHN’s stress test posting, nor any other material found on FHN’s website generally, is part of this report or incorporated herein.
FHN anticipates that it will continue performing an annual enterprise-wide stress test as part of its capital and risk management process. Results of this test will be presented to executive management and the Board.
The disclosures in this “Stress Testing” section include forward-looking statements. Please refer to “Forward-Looking Statements” for additional information concerning the characteristics and limitations of statements of that type.
Common Stock Purchase Programs
If and as authorized by its Board of Directors, FHN may repurchase shares of its common stock from time to time and will evaluate the level of capital and take action designed to generate or use capital, as appropriate, for the interests of the shareholders, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Two common stock purchase programs authorized by FHN's Board of Directors operated during the fourth quarter of 2024. FHN’s Board has not authorized a preferred stock purchase program.
January 2024 General Purchase Program
On January 23, 2024, FHN announced that its Board of Directors had approved a $650 million common share purchase program that was scheduled to expire on January 31, 2025. Purchases could be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions,
including under Rule 10b5-1 plans as well as accelerated share repurchase and other structured transactions. The timing and exact amount of common share repurchases were subject to various factors, including FHN's capital position, financial performance, expected capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions, business conditions, and regulatory considerations.
As of December 31, 2024, $476 million in purchases had been made life-to-date under the January 2024 program at an average price per share of $15.17, or $15.16 excluding commissions. Program purchases made during the quarter ended December 31, 2024 are summarized in the following table. The program was terminated effective the close of business on October 29, 2024 with $174 million in authorization unused.
October 2024 General Purchase Program
On October 29, 2024, FHN announced that its Board of Directors had approved a new $1.0 billion common share purchase program to replace the January 2024 program discussed above. The new October program is scheduled to expire on January 31, 2026. Purchases under the new program may be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, including under Rule 10b5-1 plans as well as accelerated share repurchase and other structured transactions. The timing and exact amount of common share repurchases are at the discretion of senior management and are subject to
various factors, including FHN's capital position, financial performance, expected capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions, business conditions, and regulatory considerations.
As of December 31, 2024, $129 million in purchases had been made life-to-date under the October 2024 program at an average price per share of $19.88, or $19.86 excluding commissions. Program purchases made during the quarter ended December 31, 2024 are summarized in the following table.
Risk Management
FHN derives revenue from providing services and, in many cases, assuming and managing risk for profit, which exposes FHN to strategic, reputational, liquidity, market, capital adequacy, operational, compliance, legal, and credit risks that require ongoing oversight and management. FHN has an enterprise-wide approach to risk governance, measurement, management, and reporting, including an economic capital allocation process that is tied to risk profiles used to measure risk-adjusted returns. Through an enterprise-wide risk governance structure and a Risk Appetite Statement approved by the Board, management continually evaluates the balance of risk/return and earnings volatility with shareholder value.
FHN’s enterprise-wide risk governance structure begins with the Board. The Board, working with the Risk Committee of the Board, establishes FHN’s risk appetite by approving policies and limits that provide standards for the nature and the level of risk FHN is willing to assume. The Board regularly receives reports on management’s performance against FHN’s risk appetite primarily through the Board’s Risk and Audit Committees.
To further support the risk governance provided by the Board, FHN has established accountabilities, control processes, procedures, and a management governance structure designed to align risk management with risk-taking throughout FHN. The control procedures are aligned with FHN’s four components of risk governance: (1) Specific Risk Committees; (2) the Risk Management Organization; (3) Business Unit Risk Management; and (4) Independent Assurance Functions.
1.Specific Risk Committees: The Board has delegated authority to the Chief Executive Officer to manage Strategic Risk and Reputational Risk, and the general business affairs of FHN under the Board’s oversight. The CEO utilizes the executive management team to carry out these duties in conjunction with the Risk governance structure. The Management Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and is comprised of the CEO and certain officers that oversee
all risk areas, including Strategic and Reputational Risks, and analyzes both existing and emerging risks. The Management Risk Committee is supported by a set of specific risk committees focused on unique risk types (e.g. liquidity, credit, operational, etc.). These risk committees provide a mechanism that assembles the necessary expertise and perspectives of the management team to discuss emerging risk issues, monitor FHN’s risk-taking activities, and evaluate specific transactions and exposures. These committees also monitor the direction and trend of risks relative to business strategies and market conditions and direct management to respond to risk issues.
2.The Risk Management Organization: FHN’s risk management organization, led by the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Credit Officer, provides objective oversight of risk-taking activities. The risk management organization translates FHN’s overall risk appetite into approved limits and formal policies and is supported by corporate staff functions, including the Corporate Secretary, Legal, Finance, Human Resources Operations, and Technology. Risk management also works with business units and functional experts to establish appropriate operating standards and monitor business practices in relation to those standards. Additionally, risk management proactively works with business units and senior management to focus management on key risks in FHN and emerging trends that may change FHN’s risk profile. The Chief Risk Officer has overall responsibility and accountability for enterprise risk management and aggregate risk reporting.
3.Business Unit Risk Management: FHN’s business units are responsible for identifying, acknowledging, quantifying, mitigating, and managing all risks arising within their respective units. They determine and execute their business strategies, which puts them closest to the changing nature of risks, and they are best able to take the needed actions to manage and mitigate those risks. The business units are supported
by the risk management organization that helps identify and consider risks when making business decisions. Management processes, structure, and policies are designed to help ensure compliance with laws and regulations as well as provide organizational clarity for authority, decision-making, and accountability. Business units have designated control processes to help mitigate their identified risks, and business units attest to the effectiveness of those controls. The risk governance structure supports and promotes the escalation of material items to executive management and the Board.
4.Independent Assurance Functions: Internal Audit, Credit Assurance Services ("CAS"), Compliance Testing, and Model Validation provide an independent and objective assessment of the design and execution of FHN’s internal control system, including management processes, risk governance, and policies and procedures. These groups’ activities are designed to provide reasonable assurance that risks are appropriately identified and communicated; resources
are safeguarded; significant financial, managerial, and operating information is complete, accurate, and reliable; and associate actions are in compliance with FHN’s policies and applicable laws and regulations. Internal Audit and CAS are independent third line functions within First Horizon for the purpose of providing unfettered objective assurance. The Internal Audit function reports to the Chief Audit Executive, who is appointed by and reports functionally to the Audit Committee of the Board and administratively to the CEO. The CAS function reports to the CAS Director, who is appointed by and reports functionally to the Risk Committee of the Board and administratively to the Chief Audit Executive.  Internal Audit provides quarterly reports to the Audit Committee of the Board, while CAS provides quarterly reports to the Risk Committee of the Board. Compliance Testing and Model Validation report to the Chief Risk Officer and provide annual reports to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Market Risk Management
Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions will adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact FHN’s earnings. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with FHN’s operations, primarily trading activities within FHN Financial, but also through non-trading activities which are primarily affected by interest rate risk that is managed by the ALCO within FHN.
FHN is exposed to market risk related to the trading securities inventory and loans held for sale maintained by FHN Financial in connection with its fixed income distribution activities. Various types of securities inventory positions are procured for distribution to clients by the sales staff. When these securities settle on a delayed basis, they are considered forward contracts. Refer to the "Determination of Fair Value - Trading securities and trading liabilities" section of Note 23 - Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities, which section is incorporated into this MD&A by this reference.
FHN’s market risk appetite is approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors and executed through management policies and procedures of ALCO and the FHN Financial Risk Committee. These policies contain various market risk limits including, for example,
VaR limits for the trading securities inventory, and individual position limits and sector limits for products with credit risk, among others. Risk measures are computed and reviewed on a daily basis to ensure compliance with market risk management policies.
Value-at-Risk ("VaR") and Stress Testing ("SVaR")
VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the potential loss in value from adverse market movements over an assumed fixed holding period within a stated confidence level. FHN employs a model to compute daily VaR measures for its trading securities inventory. FHN computes VaR using historical simulation with a 1-year lookback period at a 99% confidence level with 1-day and 10-day time horizons. Additionally, FHN computes a Stressed VaR measure. The SVaR computation uses the same model but with model inputs reflecting historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate for our trading securities portfolio.
A summary of FHN's VaR and SVaR measures for 1-day and 10-day time horizons is presented in the following table.
The potential risk of loss reflected by FHN’s VaR measures assumes the trading securities inventory is static. Because FHN Financial procures fixed income securities for purposes of distribution to clients, its trading securities inventory turns over regularly. Additionally, FHNF traders actively manage the trading securities inventory continuously throughout each trading day. Accordingly, FHNF’s trading securities inventory is highly dynamic, rather than static. As a result, it would be rare for FHNF to incur a negative revenue day in its fixed income activities at the levels indicated by its VaR measures.
In addition to being used in FHN’s daily market risk management process, the VaR and SVaR measures are also used by FHN in computing its regulatory market risk capital requirements in accordance with the Market Risk Capital rules. For additional information regarding FHN's capital adequacy refer to the Capital section of this MD&A.
FHN also performs stress tests on its trading securities portfolio to calculate the potential loss under various
assumed market scenarios. Key assumed stresses used in those tests are:
Down 25 bps - assumes an instantaneous downward move in interest rates of 25 basis points at all points on the interest rate yield curve.
Up 25 bps - assumes an instantaneous upward move in interest rates of 25 basis points at all points on the interest rate yield curve.
Curve flattening - assumes an instantaneous flattening of the interest rate yield curve through an increase in short-term rates and a decrease in long-term rates. The 2-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to increase 15 basis points and the 10-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to decrease 15 basis points. Shifts in other points on the yield curve are predicted based on their correlation to the 2-year and 10-year points.
Curve steepening - assumes an instantaneous steepening of the interest rate yield curve through a
decrease in short-term rates and an increase in long-term rates. The 2-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to decrease 15 basis points and the 10-year point on the Treasury yield curve is assumed to increase 15 basis points. Shifts in other points on the yield curve are predicted based on their correlation to the 2-year and 10-year points.
Credit spread widening - assumes an instantaneous increase in credit spreads (the difference between yields on Treasury securities and non-Treasury securities) of 25 basis points.
Model Validation
Trading risk management personnel within FHN have primary responsibility for model risk management with respect to the model used by FHN to compute its VaR
measures and perform stress testing on the trading inventory. Among other procedures, these personnel monitor model results and perform periodic backtesting as part of an ongoing process of validating the accuracy of the model. Backtesting compares the previous day’s VaR measurement to a regulatory-prescribed calculation of daily trading profit/loss in the trading inventory. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, there were no days in which the regulatory-prescribed calculation reflected a loss in the trading inventory that exceeded the corresponding daily VaR measurement, resulting in zero backtesting exceptions. Model risk management activities are subject to annual review by FHN’s Model Validation Group, an independent assurance group charged with oversight responsibility for FHN’s model risk management.
Interest Rate Risk Management
Interest rate risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from movement in interest rates. ALCO is responsible for overseeing the management of existing and emerging interest rate risk for the company within risk tolerances established by the Board. FHN primarily manages interest rate risk by structuring the balance sheet to maintain a desired level of associated earnings and to protect the economic value of FHN’s capital.
Net interest income and the value of equity are affected by changes in the level of market interest rates because of the differing repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities, the exercise of prepayment options held by loan clients, the early withdrawal options held by deposit clients, and changes in the basis between and changing shapes of the various yield curves used to price assets and liabilities. To isolate the repricing, basis, option, and yield curve components of overall interest rate risk, FHN employs Gap, Net Interest Income at Risk, and Economic Value of Equity analyses generated by a balance sheet simulation model.
Net Interest Income Simulation Analysis
The information provided in this section, including the discussion regarding the outcomes of simulation analysis and rate shock analysis, is forward-looking. Actual results, if the assumed scenarios were to occur, could differ because of interest rate movements, the ability of management to execute its business plans, and other factors, including those presented in the Forward-Looking Statements section of this Report.
Management uses a simulation model to measure interest rate risk and to formulate strategies to improve balance sheet positioning, earnings, or both, within FHN’s interest rate risk, liquidity, and capital guidelines. Interest rate exposure is measured by forecasting 12 months of NII under various interest rate scenarios and comparing the percentage change in NII for each scenario to a base case scenario where interest rates remain unchanged.
Assumptions are made regarding future balance sheet composition, interest rate movements, and loan and deposit pricing. In addition, assumptions are made about the magnitude of asset prepayments and earlier than anticipated deposit withdrawals. The results of these scenarios help FHN develop strategies for managing exposure to interest rate risk. While management believes the assumptions used and scenarios selected in its simulations are reasonable, simulation modeling provides only an estimate, not a precise calculation, of exposure to any given change in interest rates.
Based on a static balance sheet as of December 31, 2024, NII exposures over the next 12 months, assuming rate shocks of plus/minus 25 basis points, plus/minus 50 basis points, plus/minus 100 basis points, and plus/minus 200 basis points are estimated to have variances as shown in the table below.
an unfavorable NII variance of 0.3%. These hypothetical scenarios are used to create a risk measurement framework, and do not necessarily represent management’s current view of future interest rates or market developments.
Short-term interest rates had reached their highest levels in 15 years prior to September 2024's 50 basis point rate cut. Coupled with market disruption from recent high profile bank failures in 2023, this high interest rate environment has increased competitive pressures on deposit costs.
The yield curve was inverted for much of the last half of 2022, throughout 2023, and during the first eight months of 2024 before flattening in September 2024. As of December 2024, the yield curve has normalized and is upward sloping. Following the 50 basis point rate cut in September 2024, and 25 basis point cuts in both November and December, market participants are now projecting one additional rate cut in 2025. FHN continues to monitor current economic trends and potential exposures closely. For additional information, see Yield Curve within Market Uncertainties and Prospective Trends below.
Fair Value Shock Analysis
Interest rate risk and the slope of the yield curve also affect the fair value of FHN's trading inventory that is reflected in noninterest income.
Generally, low or declining interest rates with a positively sloped yield curve tend to increase income through higher demand for fixed income products. Additionally, the fair value of FHN's trading inventory can fluctuate as a result of differences between current interest rates and the interest rates of fixed income securities in the trading inventory.
Derivatives
In the normal course of business, FHN utilizes various financial instruments (including derivative contracts and credit-related agreements) to manage the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in the fair value of certain financial instruments generally caused by changes in interest rates, including FHN's securities inventory, certain term borrowings, and certain loans. Additionally, FHN may enter into derivative contracts in order to meet clients' needs. However, such derivative contracts are typically offset with a derivative contract entered into with an upstream counterparty in order to mitigate risk associated with changes in interest rates.
The simulation models and related hedging strategies discussed above exclude the dynamics related to how fee income and noninterest expense may be affected by actual changes in interest rates or expectations of changes. See Note 21 - Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional discussion of these instruments.
Capital Risk Management & Adequacy
The capital management objectives of FHN are to provide capital sufficient to cover the risks inherent in FHN’s businesses, to maintain excess capital to well-capitalized standards and Board policy, and to ensure ready access to the capital markets. The Capital & Stress Testing Committee, chaired by the Corporate Treasurer, reports to ALCO and is responsible for capital management oversight and provides a forum for addressing management issues related to capital adequacy. This
committee reviews sources and uses of capital, key capital ratios, segment economic capital allocation methodologies, coordinates the annual enterprise-wide stress testing process, and considers other factors in monitoring and managing current capital levels, as well as potential future sources and uses of capital. The Capital & Stress Testing Committee also recommends capital management policies, which are submitted for approval to ALCO and the Risk Committee of the Board as necessary.
Operational Risk Management
Operational risk is the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems or from external events including data or network security breaches of FHN or of third parties affecting FHN or its clients. Inherent drivers of operational risk include the following:
•Business Resilience Risk
•Fraud Risk
•Physical Security Risk
•Financial Reporting and Recording Risk
•Technology Risk
•Cybersecurity Risk
•Model Risk
•Third Party Risk
Management, measurement, and reporting of operational risk are overseen by the Operational Risk Committee which includes key representatives from the business segments and support functions. Operational risk is assessed and aggregated across the enterprise quarterly and reported to the Risk Committee.
Overview
As mentioned immediately above, FHN's operational risk function is divided into several risk areas. Each area has been established at the corporate level to address risks in that area across the entire organization. One of those areas—information technology ("IT") risk—includes cybersecurity risk management.
As FHN manages it, IT risk includes cybersecurity risk, which in turn includes the risks from cyber fraud, cyber theft, cyber vandalism, cyber ransom, data and system security, and other unauthorized incursions into FHN's IT systems. IT risk management also includes IT system reliability, data integrity, IT aspects of regulatory compliance, and risks associated with the use of artificial intelligence tools and systems. The discussion in this section focuses on cybersecurity. Additional information on this topic is presented in Cybersecurity Risks within Item 1A beginning on page 35.
Key Cybersecurity Risk Management Goals
Cybersecurity risk management has two primary goals: defend FHN and its clients from fraudulent and other unauthorized incursions; and, when an incursion happens, detect and respond as soon as practical. The optimal cybersecurity program will defend as much as is practical while also detecting rapidly those incursions that get through.
Management Structure & Key Processes
Operational risk is managed by FHN's Operational Risk ("Op Risk") Committee. Members of the Op Risk Committee include senior-level representatives from these teams or departments: Enterprise Risk Management, Operations, Model Risk, Enterprise Data, Enterprise Technology, Enterprise Technology Risk Management, Credit and Credit Risk Management, Legal, Security, Internal Audit, Deposit & Loan Operations, Retail and Digital Banking, Regional Bank Products, Mortgage Banking, Accounting, and Fixed Income/Bond Trading. The Op Risk Committee reports to FHN's Management Risk Committee, which is headed by FHN's Chief Risk Officer, who reports to FHN's Chief Executive Officer.
IT risk is managed by the IT Risk Working Group, overseen by the Op Risk Committee. The IT Risk Working Group meets quarterly to discuss emerging cyber risks, regulatory changes, vendor risk, audits, and outstanding-issue resolution. The Group also provides updates to the Op Risk Committee on IT aspects of compliance, policies, and security standards. Members of the IT Risk Working Group include the head of Enterprise Technology along with personnel from nearly all of the teams and departments represented in Op Risk.
FHN also has a Cybersecurity Working Group. The Cybersecurity Working Group, which is outside of the risk
management hierarchy, meets quarterly. Its primary functions are to provide cybersecurity awareness to the executive leadership team and to provide high-level support if a significant cybersecurity event occurs. In connection with awareness, (a) external vendors, consultants, law enforcement, and other persons are invited to speak on industry-wide cybersecurity topics to provide an independent view of external threats facing the industry; and (b) members of the Enterprise Technology team provide updates regarding how FHN is addressing current risks and threats. The Cybersecurity Working Group includes: FHN's CEO; the heads of FHN's banking segments; the heads of Risk Management, Enterprise Technology, Security, Operations, and Legal; and senior personnel in the other teams and departments represented in the IT Risk Working Group.
Key leaders within these committees and groups and for these processes are FHN's Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security Officer. The Chief Information Officer has substantial banking, IT, and related experience: had roles at FHN since 2009 related to IT and data systems culminating in CIO since 2020; prior to joining FHN, had roles at a large regional bank, including technology leader of the bank's electronic payments platform related to treasury management and enterprise IT architect; and, earned an MS in computer science as well as an MBA. The Chief Information Security Officer has over twenty years of banking, IT, and related experience: oversees information security and many related systems and processes; has established risk-based security programs to meet regulatory requirements and align with business needs; and has implemented numerous data protection, data access, and identity management systems.
FHN has a written Computer Security Incident Response Plan ("CSIRP") outlining FHN's incident response and communication processes. FHN's Chief Information Security Officer or certain other managers have the authority to initiate the execution of the CSIRP if an incident occurs. A working group called the Computer Security Incident Response Team has primary responsibility to implement or coordinate many of the CSIRP actions, along with FHN's IT Risk Working Group. Key goals of the CSIRP are to: contain, remediate, and recover; mitigate impact on FHN and clients; report findings to Op Risk and other senior management; and manage external communications. The Cybersecurity Working Group is informed of incidents that appear to have a significant risk of becoming material.
FHN engages third-party vendors to conduct several periodic cybersecurity reviews: Network Penetration testing; Cyber Security Maturity Assessment; Red Team (simulated cyber-attack) testing; SOX (financial reporting controls and data integrity) testing; and, PCI-DSS (proprietary data security standard for payment systems)
attestation of compliance and SOC 1 Type II reports (attesting to the design and operation of cybersecurity systems) for lockbox and electronic bill pay. The frequency of these reviews ranges from several times per year to every three years. FHN also has a cybersecurity incident specialty firm on retainer for incident response, as needed.
FHN has a dedicated Third-Party Risk Management ("TPRM") department reporting to the Chief Risk Officer. TPRM engages the IT Risk and Control Team to perform cybersecurity assessments for new vendors during onboarding, re-assessments of existing vendors on a risk-based cadence, and continuous monitoring of critical third parties.
Board Oversight
The Board's Risk Committee oversees all risk management functions for the enterprise, including operational risk, IT risk, and cybersecurity risk. The Risk Committee, as well as the full Board, each quarter receives a risk management update from FHN's Chief Risk Officer. Each update includes a written presentation covering all major risk areas, including operational risk, and each is supported by a detailed Enterprise Risk Report which is available to all directors. Major topics in the operational risk portion of the Enterprise Risk Report each quarter include fraud and related incidents; process management, which includes
many processes related to cybersecurity defenses; and information security, which addresses core cybersecurity processes and incidents.
Tactical, Operational & Other Impacts
The measures FHN takes to manage cybersecurity risk affect how associates and clients use FHN's platforms and systems. For every safeguard considered or implemented, FHN must weigh potential and actual inconveniences against security concerns. Practical realities make it impossible to maximize security and ignore resulting restrictions on the ability of associates and clients to conduct banking and financial business. Primarily for that reason, cybersecurity risks are and will be a major risk management concern, and losses from incursions will be impossible to avoid. As mentioned above, FHN's goals are to prevent what can be prevented, and detect and respond to incursions that get through as quickly as possible.
For those incursions that are not blocked, FHN's processes are designed to detect them quickly enough so that the financial and operational impact on FHN is zero or modest. But the risk of a major incursion occurring cannot be reduced to zero. A major incursion could have a material financial impact on FHN's business operations and earnings.
Compliance Risk Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, or loss to reputation the Company may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, self-regulatory organization standards, and codes of conduct applicable to FHN’s activities. Management, measurement, and reporting of compliance risk are overseen by the Compliance Risk Committee and other key Corporate Governance Committees. Key
executives from the business segments, legal, compliance, risk management, and service functions are represented on the Committees. Summary reports of Committee activities and decisions are provided to the appropriate Board governance committees. Reports include the status of regulatory activities, internal compliance program initiatives, compliance testing and internal audit results and evaluation of emerging compliance risk areas.
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower’s or counterparty’s ability or willingness to meet its financial obligations under agreed upon terms. FHN is subject to credit risk in lending, trading, investing, liquidity/funding, and asset management activities although lending activities have the most exposure to credit risk. The nature and amount of credit risk depends on the types of transactions, the structure of those transactions, collateral received, the use of guarantors and the parties involved.
FHN assesses and manages credit risk through a series of policies, processes, measurement systems, and controls. The Credit Risk Management Committee ("CRMC") is responsible for overseeing the management of existing and emerging credit risks in the company within the broad risk tolerances established by the Board. The CRMC
reports through the Management Risk Committee. The Credit Risk Management function, which is shared by the Chief Credit Officer and Chief Risk Officer, provides strategic and tactical credit leadership by maintaining policies, overseeing credit approval, assessing new credit products, strategies and processes, and managing portfolio composition and performance.
While the Credit Risk function oversees FHN’s credit risk management, there is significant coordination between the business lines and the Credit Risk function in order to manage FHN’s credit risk and maintain strong asset quality. The Credit Risk function recommends portfolio industry/sector and individual country limits to the Risk Committee of the Board for approval. Adherence to these approved limits is vigorously monitored by Credit Risk which provides recommendations to slow or cease lending
to the business lines as commitments near established lending limits. Credit Risk also ensures subject matter experts are providing oversight, support and credit approvals, particularly in the specialty lending areas where industry-specific knowledge is required. Management emphasizes general portfolio servicing such that emerging risks are able to be spotted early enough to correct potential deficiencies, prevent further credit deterioration, and mitigate credit losses.
The Credit Risk Management function assesses the asset quality trends and results, as well as lending processes, adherence to underwriting guidelines (portfolio-specific underwriting guidelines are discussed further in the Asset Quality Trends section), and utilizes this information to inform management regarding the current state of credit quality and as a factor in the estimation process for determining the allowance for credit losses. The CRMC
reviews on a periodic basis various reports issued by assurance functions which provide an independent assessment of the adequacy of loan servicing, grading accuracy, and other key functions. Additionally, CRMC is presented with and discusses various portfolios, lending activity and lending-related projects.
All of the above activities are subject to independent review by FHN’s Credit Assurance Services Group. CAS reports to the CAS Director who is appointed by and reports functionally to the Risk Committee of the Board (and administratively to the Chief Audit Executive) and provides quarterly reports to that Committee. CAS is charged with providing the Risk Committee of the Board and executive management with independent, objective, and timely assessments of FHN’s portfolio quality, credit policies, and credit risk management processes.
Liquidity Risk Management
Among other things, ALCO is responsible for liquidity management: the funding of assets with liabilities of appropriate duration, while mitigating the risk of unexpected cash needs. ALCO and the Board of Directors have adopted a Liquidity Policy of which the objective is to ensure that FHN meets its cash and collateral obligations promptly, in a cost-effective manner and with the highest degree of reliability. The maintenance of adequate levels of asset and liability liquidity should provide FHN with the ability to meet both expected and unexpected cash and collateral needs. Key liquidity ratios, asset liquidity levels, and the amount available from funding sources are reported to ALCO on a regular basis. FHN’s Liquidity Policy establishes liquidity limits that are deemed appropriate for FHN’s risk profile.
In accordance with the Liquidity Policy, ALCO manages FHN’s exposure to liquidity risk through forecasts of its liquidity position and funding needs. Base liquidity forecasts are reviewed by ALCO and are updated as financial conditions dictate. In addition to the baseline liquidity reports, robust stress testing of assumptions and funds availability are periodically reviewed. FHN maintains a contingency funding plan that may be executed should unexpected difficulties arise in accessing funding that affects FHN, the industry, or both. As of December 31, 2024, available liquidity sources included cash, incremental borrowing capacity at the FHLB, access to Federal Reserve Bank borrowings through the discount window, and unencumbered securities. Additional sources of liquidity included dealer and commercial customer repurchase agreements, access to the overnight and term Federal Funds markets, brokered deposits, loan sales, and syndications. The table below details FHN’s sources of available liquidity as of December 31, 2024.
Table 7.24
AVAILABLE LIQUIDITY
as of December 31, 2024


	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	(Dollars in millions)
	

	Total
Capacity
	

	Outstanding Borrowings
	

	Available Liquidity
	Cash on deposit with FRB (a)
	

	$
	1,393 
	

	

	$
	— 
	

	

	$
	1,393 
	

	FHLB
	

	8,722 
	

	

	600 
	

	

	8,122 
	

	Discount Window
	

	23,475 
	

	

	— 
	

	

	23,475 
	

	Unencumbered securities (b)
	

	1,039 
	

	

	— 
	

	

	1,039 
	

	Total available liquidity
	

	

	

	$
	34,029 
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	(a) Included in interest-bearing deposits with banks on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(b) Subject to market haircuts on collateral.
Generally, a primary source of funding for a bank is core deposits from the bank's client base. The period-end loans-to-deposits ratio was 95% and 93% as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
FHN may also use unsecured short-term borrowings as a source of liquidity. Federal funds purchased from correspondent bank clients are considered to be substantially more stable than funds purchased in the national broker markets for federal funds due to the long, historical, and reciprocal nature of banking services provided by FHN to these correspondent banks. The remainder of FHN’s wholesale short-term borrowings consists of securities sold under agreements to repurchase transactions accounted for as secured borrowings with business clients or broker-dealer counterparties.
Both FHN and First Horizon Bank have the ability to generate liquidity by issuing senior or subordinated unsecured debt, preferred equity, and common equity,
subject to market conditions and compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. As of December 31, 2024, FHN had outstanding $798 million in senior and subordinated unsecured debt and $426 million in non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. FHN redeemed all outstanding shares of its Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock during second quarter 2024. Refer to Note 11 - Preferred Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional information. As of December 31, 2024, First Horizon Bank and subsidiaries had outstanding preferred shares of $295 million, which are reflected as noncontrolling interest on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Parent company liquidity is primarily provided by cash flows stemming from dividends and interest payments collected from subsidiaries. These sources of cash represent the primary sources of funds to pay cash dividends to shareholders and principal and interest to debt holders of FHN. The amount paid to the parent company through First Horizon Bank common dividends is managed as part of FHN’s overall cash management process, subject to applicable regulatory restrictions. Certain regulatory restrictions exist regarding the ability of First Horizon Bank to transfer funds to FHN in the form of cash, common dividends, loans, or advances. At any given time, the pertinent portions of those regulatory restrictions allow First Horizon Bank to declare preferred or common dividends without prior regulatory approval in an aggregate amount equal to First Horizon Bank’s retained net income for the two most recently completed years plus the current year-to-date period. For any period, First Horizon Bank’s "retained net income" generally is equal to First Horizon Bank’s regulatory net income reduced by the preferred and common dividends declared by First Horizon Bank. Applying the dividend restrictions imposed under applicable federal and state rules as outlined above, the Bank’s total amount available for dividends was $374 million as of January 1, 2025. Consequently, on that date the Bank could pay common dividends up to that amount to its sole common shareholder, FHN, or to its preferred shareholders without prior regulatory approval. Additionally, a capital conservation buffer must be maintained (as described in the Capital section of this Report) to avoid restrictions on dividends.
First Horizon Bank declared and paid common dividends to the parent company in the amount of $1.1 billion in 2024 and $220 million in 2023. In January 2025, First Horizon Bank declared and paid a common dividend to the parent company in the amount of $115 million. First Horizon Bank declared and paid preferred dividends in each quarter of 2024 and 2023. Additionally, First Horizon Bank declared preferred dividends in first quarter 2025, payable in April 2025.
Payment of a dividend to shareholders of FHN is dependent on several factors which are considered by the Board. These factors include FHN’s current and prospective capital, liquidity, and other needs, applicable regulatory restrictions (including capital conservation buffer requirements) and availability of funds to FHN through a dividend from First Horizon Bank. Additionally, banking regulators generally require insured banks and bank holding companies to pay cash dividends only out of current operating earnings. Consequently, the decision of whether FHN will pay future dividends and the amount of dividends will be affected by current operating results.
FHN paid a cash dividend of $0.15 per common share on January 2, 2025. FHN paid cash dividends of $1,625 per Series E preferred share and $1,175 per Series F preferred share on January 10, 2025 and $331.25 per Series B preferred share and $165 per Series C preferred share on February 3, 2025. In addition, in January 2025, the Board approved cash dividends per share in the following amounts:
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the normal course of business, FHN is a party to a number of activities that contain credit, market and operational risk that are not reflected in whole or in part in the consolidated financial statements. Such activities include traditional off-balance sheet credit-related financial instruments. FHN enters into commitments to extend credit to borrowers, including loan commitments, lines of credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit. Many of the commitments are expected to expire unused or be only partially used; therefore, the total amount of commitments does not necessarily represent future cash requirements and are not included in the table below. Based on its available liquidity and available borrowing capacity, FHN anticipates it will continue to have sufficient funds to meet its current commitments. See Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for more information.
Contractual Obligations
The following table sets forth contractual obligations representing required and potential cash outflows as of December 31, 2024. Purchase obligations represent obligations under agreements to purchase goods or
Credit Ratings
FHN is currently able to fund a majority of the balance sheet through core deposits, which are generally not directly tied to FHN’s credit ratings as are other types of funding. However, maintaining adequate credit ratings on debt issues and preferred stock is critical to liquidity should FHN need to access funding from other sources, including from long-term debt issuances and certain brokered deposits, at an attractive rate. The availability and cost of funds other than core deposits is also dependent upon marketplace perceptions of the financial soundness of FHN, which include such factors as capital levels, asset quality, and reputation. The availability of
core deposit funding is stabilized by federal deposit insurance, which can be removed only in extraordinary circumstances, but may also be influenced to some extent by the same factors that affect other funding sources. FHN’s credit ratings are also referenced in various respects in agreements with certain derivative counterparties as discussed in Note 21 - Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.
The following table provides FHN’s most recent credit ratings.
Repurchase Obligations
Prior to September 2008, legacy First Horizon originated loans through its pre-2009 mortgage business, primarily first lien home loans, with the intention of selling them. As discussed in Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures, FHN's principal remaining exposures for those activities relate to (i) indemnification claims by underwriters, loan purchasers, and other parties which assert that FHN-originated loans caused or contributed to losses which FHN is legally obliged to indemnify, and (ii) indemnification or other claims related to FHN's servicing of pre-2009 mortgage loans.
FHN’s approach for determining the adequacy of the repurchase and foreclosure reserve has evolved, sometimes substantially, based on changes in information available. Repurchase/make-whole rates vary based on purchaser, vintage, and claim type. For those loans repurchased or covered by a make-whole payment, cumulative average loss severities range between 50 and 60 percent of the UPB.
Repurchase Accrual Approach
In determining potential loss content, claims are analyzed by purchaser, vintage, and claim type. FHN considers various inputs including claim rate estimates, historical average repurchase and loss severity rates, mortgage insurance cancellations, and mortgage insurance curtailment requests. Inputs are applied to claims in the
active pipeline, as well as to historical average inflows to estimate loss content related to potential future inflows. Management also evaluates the nature of claims from purchasers and/or servicers of loans sold to determine if qualitative adjustments are appropriate.
Repurchase and Foreclosure Liability
As discussed in Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures, FHN's repurchase and foreclosure liability, primarily related to its pre-2009 mortgage origination, sale, securitization, and servicing businesses, is comprised of accruals to cover estimated loss content in the active pipeline, estimated future inflows, and estimated loss content related to certain known claims not currently
included in the active pipeline. The active pipeline consists of mortgage loan repurchase and make-whole demands from loan purchasers or securitization participants, foreclosure/servicing demands from borrowers, and certain related exposures. The liability contemplates repurchase/make-whole and damages obligations and estimates for probable incurred losses associated with
loan populations excluded from the settlements with the GSEs, as well as other whole loans sold, mortgage insurance cancellation rescissions, and loans included in bulk servicing sales effected prior to the settlements with the GSEs. FHN compares the estimated probable incurred losses determined under the applicable loss estimation approaches for the respective periods with current
reserve levels. Changes in the estimated required liability levels are recorded as necessary through the repurchase and foreclosure provision. The total repurchase and foreclosure liability, which includes both the legacy pre-2009 business and the current mortgage business, was $15 million and $16 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Market Uncertainties and Prospective Trends
FHN’s future results could be affected both positively and negatively by several known trends. Key among those are changes in the U.S. and global economy and outlook, government actions affecting interest rates, and government actions and proposals which could have positive or negative impacts on the economy at large or on certain businesses, industries, or sectors. Additional risks relate to political uncertainty, changes in federal policies (including those publicly discussed, formally
proposed, or recently implemented) and the potential impacts of those changes on our businesses and clients, and whether FHN’s strategic initiatives will succeed.
In addition to trends and events noted elsewhere in this MD&A, FHN believes the following trends and events are noteworthy at this time.


Inflation, Recession, and Federal Reserve Policy
Economic Overview
The post-COVID economy in the U.S. has been marked by: strong inflation, which began in 2021, peaked in 2022, and abated, though not fully, starting in 2023; the Federal Reserve "tightening" in 2022 and the first half of 2023 to contain inflation by rapidly increasing short-term interest rates and ending asset purchases; low unemployment rates; moderate economic growth; and, until September 2024, an inverted yield curve. Key aspects were:
•The rise in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve in 2022 was both rapid and substantial, taking the overnight Fed Funds rate from 0.20% in March 2022 to 4.65% a year later. Hikes after that were much more modest and infrequent.
•The Federal Reserve ended rate hikes in 2023. No rate actions were taken for more than a year, until a 50 basis point cut in September 2024 followed by cuts of 25 basis points in both November and December.
•In response to 2022's extremely rapid and vigorous tightening of monetary policy, the inflation rate in the U.S. now is well below 2022's levels. However, throughout 2024 and in early 2025, measures of inflation generally remain higher than the Federal Reserve's stated long-term goal of 2%.
•Monetary tightening often creates yield curve inversion for a time. In the current cycle, traditional inversion (when ten-year treasury rates are below two-year rates) was both very deep and unusually sustained, with inversion lasting from the summer of 2022 to September 2024 when the yield curve began to return to its more typical upward slope.
Key events and circumstances are noted in the following discussions.
Federal Reserve and Rates
The Federal Reserve raised short-term rates several times in 2022 and in the first part of 2023. All but one of the rate increases in 2022 were 75 and 50 basis points each—aggressive by historical standards—while the 2023 rate increases were the more-typical 25 basis points each. The Federal Reserve cut rates 50 basis points in September 2024 and 25 basis points in November and again in December 2024. Rates were held steady in late January 2025.
FHN cannot predict when or how much short-term rates will be changed, how market-driven long-term rates will behave, nor how those actions may affect financial markets during the next several quarters.
Yield Curve
Unusual yield curve effects, including inversion, are common when monetary policy changes. A traditional measure of inversion occurs when the two-year U.S. Treasury rate is higher than the ten-year rate. Traditional inversion was sustained continuously from the summer of 2022 until September 2024, an unusually long period. The degree of inversion varied during that period, but often was much deeper than is typical. Sustained traditional yield curve inversion is viewed, with statistical support, as a harbinger of economic recession, but recession did not occur.
Over the last several months, the yield curve has steepened somewhat as longer-term rates have risen or held steady while short-term rates have fallen.


Yield curve flattening and inversion generally reduce the profit FHN can make from lending by compressing FHN's net interest margin, and also generally reduce FHN's revenues from bond trading. Both of those impacts occurred over the last three years, with fluctuations. Refer to Interest Rate & Yield Curve Risks, located in Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 46, for a discussion of the risks to FHN associated with flattening and inversion.
Recession
The U.S. economy contracted (experienced negative growth) during the first two quarters of 2022, in both cases modestly. Although the occurrence of two consecutive quarters of contraction often coincides with recession, in 2022 it did not. The economy has expanded in each quarter since then. The expansion rate has varied without a sustained trend.
Recession expectations in the U.S. were high in 2022 and early 2023. They moderated significantly after that and became generally low in 2024.
Fiscal Policy
The Federal Reserve controls monetary policy for the U.S. government, but not fiscal policy (spending and taxation). Fiscal policy directly affects U.S. government annual deficits or surpluses, along with the size and trajectory of the national debt. Fiscal policy often has a significant impact on the U.S. economy. Some of the unusual or unexpected aspects of the post-COVID economy likely were created or supported by historically unusual fiscal stimulus and other stimulative policies which pushed, and in some cases continue to push, substantial amounts of money into the economy.
The changes in the executive and legislative branches of government in 2025 could result in significant changes in U.S. fiscal policy in 2025 and 2026. Even if significant changes to policy are made quickly, usually it takes time for the effect of such changes to become a significant factor in the economic data.
2023 Banking Crisis
In March 2023, two large regional U.S. banks failed after sudden large deposit outflows, and a major Swiss bank was acquired by another bank at the behest of regulators. In May 2023, a third large regional U.S. bank failed after experiencing very large deposit outflows in March. In the
aftermath of these failures, bank investors and clients across the U.S. became more focused on deposit mix, funding risk management, and other safety-soundness concerns. Most U.S. banks saw abrupt net outflows of deposits in the spring of 2023 following the failures. Most have since recouped those deposits, mainly by offering higher interest rates. In 2024, competition for deposits was quite intense, and such competition is expected to continue into 2025.
Impacts on FHN
In 2022, FHN benefited significantly from rising rates as the rise in lending rates outpaced the rise in deposit and other funding rates. In the first quarter of 2023, that outpacing ended, and FHN's net interest margin (NIM) started to compress. FHN was able to somewhat relieve the compression during 2023 fueled in part by using increased deposits and capital to reduce more-expensive borrowings, so that NIM in 2023 improved over 2022. NIM for the entire year 2024 was flat, declining very modestly from 2023.
In 2024, improvements in loan yields were largely offset by higher funding costs, especially for deposits. Deposit costs increased largely in response to heightened competition in many of FHN's markets.
In addition, some of FHN's businesses have been negatively impacted by rate actions in the past two years and by the unusual yield curve. Rate increases pushed home mortgage rates in the U.S. much higher in 2022 and 2023, reducing demand. FHN's direct mortgage lending and lending to mortgage companies saw business decline significantly in 2022 and 2023. Mortgage rates modestly abated early in 2024 and FHN's mortgage business saw improvement, but then rates started to rise later in the year as the yield curve steepened somewhat after its long inversion. However, the negative impacts of these higher rates were offset by gains in market share. Similarly, FHN's revenues from bond trading and related activities fell significantly in 2022 and 2023 due to rising rates coupled with elevated market volatility. In 2024, bond trading revenues improved markedly, but with significant volatility quarter-to-quarter. Bond revenues have fluctuated, likely due to changing market expectations about rate moves, among other things; those fluctuations could continue going into 2025.
Other Regulatory Proposals
In 2023, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and other regulators proposed regulatory changes that would, if implemented, significantly increase regulatory constraints and costs on all U.S. banks with assets over $100 billion, but whether those regulations will be adopted, or their final form, if adopted, remains uncertain. A few new requirements would apply to banks, like FHN, with assets over $50 billion, but by far the main
impacts would fall on banks greater than $100 billion in assets.
The proposals touch upon many regulatory requirements, including debt and equity capital requirements, credit risk standards, and asset risk-weighting. The increased requirements also would entail additional compliance costs.
The triggering of significant cost increases based on a single threshold financial measure—$100 billion in assets—has been in place for many years and has impacted the U.S. banking industry. Compliance restrictions and costs increase as the threshold is approached, but a step-up pattern remains. Those effects have added to the incentives for banks to consolidate, and the proposed new rules are likely to enhance those incentives if adopted.
It appears likely that, if adopted as proposed, significant parts of the proposals will be challenged in court as being inconsistent with legislation enacted by Congress in 2018. Such a challenge would be technical and complex, and likely would take many years to resolve. Moreover, even if a challenge of that sort were successful, many parts of the proposals likely would remain intact and others might be modified without being rescinded.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Regimes
In October 2023, the state of California enacted laws which, taken together, will require most larger companies doing business in California to report annually their greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions, with an external assurance requirement, and to report biennially their climate-related financial risks and risk-mitigation measures. The California laws include multi-year phase in periods and encompass Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions. As currently enacted, the laws require implementing regulations to be adopted by July 1, 2025, and reporting for Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions to begin in 2026 for the 2025 fiscal year. The California laws, especially the application of those laws to companies outside of California, have been challenged in court. These challenges could take many years to resolve.
In March 2024, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") adopted final rules, “The Enhancement and Standardization of Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors” (the “SEC Climate Disclosures Rules”). These Rules would require all U.S. companies with publicly-traded securities to report annually their Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and related risk management processes, and would include a related financial statement and audit requirement, among other things. Refer to "Accounting Changes" below for additional information. The SEC Climate Disclosures Rules also have a lengthy phase-in period. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the SEC's Climate Disclosure Rules will be implemented as adopted, both because the SEC has suspended effectiveness of those rules while legal challenges are pending and because the shifts in the executive and legislative branches of government could lead the SEC to withdraw or significantly alter those rules.
Three GHG Scopes
Scope 1 GHG emissions are those from a source the company owns or controls directly, such as a manufacturing plant. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from company activities, such as from power consumed by company operations. Scope 1 and 2 emissions generally can be measured or estimated using information a company normally can obtain without significant external inquiry.
Scope 3 GHG emissions are those from sources and activities that a company neither owns nor controls. Scope 3 emissions are from a wide range of sources that touch upon a company, such as: vendors; employees (commuting, business travel, etc.); and customers. Scope 3 information generally is unknown to a company without significant external inquiry and/or estimation.
Potential Business Impacts
Direct compliance costs will include creating systems to measure or estimate and capture relevant data, staffing, and engagement of vendors, including a firm to provide required assurances (somewhat analogous to a financial statement auditor). In addition, if FHN is required to support Scope 3 reporting by obtaining GHG-related information from customers, effectively FHN would be required to impose costs and/or inconveniences on its customers. Other banks in FHN's markets, particularly those that are private and not doing business in California, could provide financial services without those requirements, putting FHN at a competitive disadvantage.
Market Growth and Weather Events
FHN's principal markets are in the southern and southeastern United States, including most of the major gulf coast markets and several markets on the southern Atlantic seacoast. Many of FHN's markets, both coastal and non-coastal, have experienced significant population growth over at least the past twenty years, outpacing the growth rate for the U.S. as a whole. That population growth generally has been accompanied by economic growth.
Many of FHN's fastest growing markets, including most significantly those in Florida, can be impacted significantly by hurricanes and other severe coastal weather events. As those markets grow, FHN's economic commitment to them grows, as does FHN's financial exposure to those events.
Over the past two years it has been widely reported that the economic costs of hurricane and other severe weather events in the southeastern U.S. have been rising


significantly. FHN believes that rising costs are directly related to growth in those areas.
For example, much of the growth in Florida has been along the coast. A gulf coast hurricane 50 or 60 years ago had a fair chance of making landfall in a relatively unpopulated area. Now, the chances of a hurricane directly hitting a population center are much higher, the average population in that center is much higher, and the average value per building is much higher.
The reported significant increase in casualty risks and costs is being reflected in property insurance practices which currently are in significant flux. The insurance industry is being forced to revise its risk assessment and premium pricing practices in coastal and other impacted areas as loss experience has deviated from earlier predictions, sometimes badly. In Florida, for example, some smaller carriers have failed, some larger carriers have left markets, and remaining carriers have significantly increased the premiums of hurricane-related insurance, narrowed coverage, or both.
Coastal states such as Florida and Louisiana have created last-resort insurance pools for residents who cannot obtain or afford private property insurance. However, as the costs borne by those pools increase, either the
premiums will have to rise, or general taxation will have to cover the difference. In addition, those programs generally do not help business clients, nor are they offered in many states that can be severely impacted by hurricane-related flooding.
State and local building and water-control codes have been and are being revised, but often unevenly and often not retroactive to pre-existing structures and developments. The current transition period could be lengthy. During the transition, insurance and other costs are likely to reduce the practical life of properties built under older codes even if the newer codes are not directly applied to those properties.
The availability, reliability, and cost of adequate property insurance is a significant concern for FHN as well as FHN's clients in affected markets. Instability in property insurance has made, and continues to make, FHN's business decisions more difficult. That instability increases FHN's risks of loan loss and business downturn.
More fundamentally, elevated insurance and casualty costs blunt a key factor driving growth in many of these high-growth markets: lower costs of living. If market growth slows, FHN's business could be impacted.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
Management’s policy is to maintain the ALLL at a level sufficient to absorb expected credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio. Management performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its loan and lease portfolio to identify trends and to assess the overall collectability of the portfolio. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the ALLL is a “critical accounting estimate” as: (1) changes in it can materially affect the provision for loan and lease losses and net income, (2) it requires management to predict borrowers’ likelihood or capacity to repay, including evaluation of inherently uncertain future economic conditions, (3) prepayment activity must be projected to estimate the life of loans that often are shorter than contractual terms, (4) it requires estimation of a reasonable and supportable forecast period for credit losses for loan portfolio segments before reversion to historical loss levels over the remaining life of a loan and (5) expected future recoveries of amounts previously charged off must be estimated. Accordingly, this is a highly subjective process and requires significant judgment since it is difficult to evaluate current and future economic conditions in relation to an overall credit cycle and estimate the timing and extent of loss events that are expected to occur prior to the end of a loan’s and lease's estimated life.
FHN believes that the principal assumptions underlying the accounting estimates made by management include: (1) the commercial loan portfolio has been properly risk graded based on information about borrowers in specific industries and specific issues with respect to single borrowers; (2) borrower-specific information made available to FHN is current and accurate; (3) the loan portfolio has been segmented properly and individual loans have similar credit risk characteristics and will behave similarly; (4) the lives for loan portfolio pools have been estimated properly, including consideration of expected prepayments; (5) the economic forecasts utilized and associated weighting selected by management in the modeling of expected credit losses are reflective of future economic conditions; (6) entity-specific historical loss information has been properly assessed for all loan portfolio segments as the initial basis for estimating expected credit losses; (7) the reasonable and supportable periods for loan portfolio segments have been properly determined; (8) the reversion methodologies and timeframes for migration from the reasonable and supportable period to the use of historical loss rates are reasonable; (9) expected recoveries of prior charge off amounts have been properly estimated; and (10) qualitative adjustments to modeled loss results
reasonably reflect expected future credit losses as of the date of the financial statements.
While management uses the best information available to establish the ALLL, future adjustments to the ALLL and methodology may be necessary if economic or other conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the estimates. Such adjustments to prior estimates, as necessary, are made in the period in which these factors and other relevant considerations indicate that loss levels vary from previous estimates.
Selection and weighting of macroeconomic forecasts are the most significant inputs in quantitative ALLL calculations. Due to the sensitivity of the ALLL determination to macroeconomic forecasts, changes in those forecasts can result in materially different results between reporting periods. In the determination of the ALLL as of December 31, 2024, FHN utilized Moody's Baseline and S3 (adverse) scenarios for the calculation of the ALLL. FHN placed the most weight on the Moody's Baseline scenario but included the S3 scenario to reflect the uncertainty of macroeconomic forecasts related to ongoing economic conditions.
Due to the dynamic relationship of macroeconomic inputs in modeling calculations, quantifying the effects of changing individual inputs is highly challenging. Additionally, management applies judgment in developing qualitative adjustments that are considered necessary to appropriately reflect elements of credit risk that are not captured in the quantitative model results. To provide some hypothetical sensitivity analysis, FHN prepared two alternate quantitative calculations, applying 100% weighting to Moody's Baseline and S3 (adverse) scenarios. These hypothetical calculations resulted in a 3% reduction and 29% increase, respectively, in ALLL in comparison to the ALLL recorded as of December 31, 2024, inclusive of qualitative adjustments that are affected by the weighting of forecast scenarios.
See Note 1 - Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4 - Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for detail regarding FHN’s processes, models, and methodology for determining the ALLL.
Income Taxes
FHN is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and the states and jurisdictions in which it operates. FHN accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, "Income Taxes". Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of the consolidated income tax expense. FHN income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid.
Income tax expense consists of both current and deferred taxes. Current income tax expense is an estimate of taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense related to uncertain tax positions. A DTA or a DTL is recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes can be affected by changes in tax rates applicable to future years, either as a result of statutory changes or business changes that may change the jurisdictions in which taxes are paid. Additionally, DTAs are subject to a “more likely than not” test to determine whether the full amount of the DTAs should be realized in the financial statements. FHN evaluates the likelihood of realization of the DTA based on both positive and negative evidence available at the time, including (as appropriate) scheduled reversals of DTLs, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Realization is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of the carryforwards attributable to or generated with respect to the DTA. In projecting future
taxable income, FHN incorporates assumptions including the amount of future state and federal pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates used to manage the underlying business. If the “more likely than not” test is not met, a valuation allowance must be established against the DTA.
The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which FHN operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In determining if a tax position should be recognized and in establishing a provision for income tax expense, FHN must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. Interpretations may be subjected to review during examination by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. FHN attempts to resolve disputes that may arise during the tax examination and audit process. However, certain disputes may ultimately be resolved through the federal and state court systems.
FHN monitors relevant tax authorities and revises estimates of accrued income taxes on a quarterly basis. Changes in estimates may occur due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. Revisions of estimates may also result from income tax planning and from the resolution
of income tax controversies. Revisions in estimates may be material to operating results for any given period.
See Note 14 - Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional
information including discussion of valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets and the potential impact of unrecognized tax benefits on future earnings.
Contingent Liabilities
A liability is contingent if the amount or outcome is not presently known but may become known in the future as a result of the occurrence of some uncertain future event. FHN estimates its contingent liabilities based on: management’s ability to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss related to probable loss outcomes; and management's estimates of reasonably possible loss associated with less-than-probable, but more-than-remote, loss outcomes. Accounting standards require that a liability be recorded if management determines that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, it must be probable that the loss will be confirmed by some future event. As part of the estimation process, management is required to make assumptions about matters that are by their nature highly uncertain and difficult to estimate.
The assessment of contingent liabilities, including legal contingencies, involves the use of critical estimates, assumptions, and judgments. Management’s estimates
are based on their belief that future events will validate the current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of these exposures. However, there can be no assurance that future events, such as court decisions or decisions of arbitrators, will not differ from management’s assessments. Whenever practicable, management consults with third-party experts (e.g., attorneys, accountants, claims administrators, etc.) to assist with the gathering and evaluation of information related to contingent liabilities. Based on internally and/or externally prepared evaluations, management makes a determination whether the potential exposure requires accrual in the financial statements.
See Note 16 - Contingencies and Other Disclosures to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding FHN's existing material contingent liabilities, including those with and without loss accruals, and discussion of reasonably possible loss amounts for pending litigation matters.
Accounting Changes
Refer to Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for a summary of accounting changes and
accounting changes issued but not currently effective, which section is incorporated into this MD&A by this reference.
Non-GAAP Information
Certain measures included in this report are “non-GAAP”, meaning they are not presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and also are not codified in U.S. banking regulations currently applicable to FHN. Although other entities may use calculation methods that differ from those used by FHN for non-GAAP measures, FHN’s management believes such measures are relevant to understanding the capital position or financial results of FHN and its business segments. Non-GAAP measures are reported to FHN’s management and Board of Directors through various internal reports.
The non-GAAP measures presented in this report are pre-provision net revenue, return on average tangible common equity, tangible common equity to tangible assets, and tangible book value per common share. Table 7.28 provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP items presented in this report to the most comparable GAAP presentation.
Presentation of regulatory measures, even those which are not GAAP, provides a meaningful base for comparability to other financial institutions subject to the
same regulations as FHN, as demonstrated by their use by banking regulators in reviewing capital adequacy of financial institutions. Although not GAAP terms, these regulatory measures are not considered “non-GAAP” under U.S. financial reporting rules as long as their presentation conforms to regulatory standards. Regulatory measures used in this MD&A include: common equity tier 1 capital, generally defined as common equity less goodwill, other intangibles, and certain other required regulatory deductions; tier 1 capital, generally defined as the sum of core capital (including common equity and instruments that cannot be redeemed at the option of the holder) adjusted for certain items under risk based capital regulations; and risk-weighted assets, which is a measure of total on- and off-balance sheet assets adjusted for credit and market risk, used to determine regulatory capital ratios.
The following table provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP items presented in this MD&A to the most comparable GAAP presentation.