 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The Company is a subsidiary of JDFS, a wholly-owned finance holding subsidiary of Deere &#38; Company. The results of operations of the Company are affected by its relationships with Deere &#38; Company. See &#8220;Relationships of the Company with John Deere&#8221; on page 3 for additional information regarding the relationship between the Company and Deere &#38; Company.

The following risks are considered material to the Company&#8217;s business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; beginning on page 19, including the risks and uncertainties described in the &#8220;Safe Harbor Statement&#8221; on pages 24-25, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 38, and the risk factors of Deere &#38; Company included in Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements that relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods involve certain factors that are subject to change, and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company&#8217;s businesses. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise this risk factors discussion, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the &#8220;Safe Harbor Statement&#8221; in this report are not the only risks faced by the Company.

Risks Related to the COVID Pandemic 

The COVID pandemic resulted in additional risks that could materially adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 

COVID was identified in late 2019 and has spread globally. The pandemic has resulted in governments and other authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and business closures. These measures have impacted and may further impact all or portions of the Company&#8217;s workforce and operations and the operations of customers. Countries around the world have been affected by the pandemic and have taken containment actions. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding such measures and potential 

future measures. Restrictions on the Company&#8217;s workforce&#8217;s access to its facilities could limit its ability to meet customer servicing expectations and have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. There is no certainty that measures taken by governmental authorities will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and the Company&#8217;s ability to perform critical functions could be harmed.

The COVID pandemic caused a global recession and there is no certainty about when a sustained economic recovery may occur. The COVID pandemic has also significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty and has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. Economic uncertainties could affect the value of the equipment financed or leased, the demand for financing and the financial condition and credit risk of our dealers and customers. 

Uncertainties related to the magnitude and duration of the COVID pandemic may significantly adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business and outlook. These uncertainties include: the duration and impact of the resurgence in COVID cases in any country, state, or region; prolonged reduction or closure of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations, or a delayed recovery in such operations; additional closures as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities; increased risk of cyber attacks on network connections used in remote working arrangements; increased privacy-related risks due to processing health-related personal information; absence of employees due to illness; requests by the Company&#8217;s customers or dealers for payment deferrals and contract modifications; the impact of disruptions in the global capital markets and/or declines in John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, which could impact John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s ability to obtain funding in the future; and the impact of the pandemic on demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and services. It is unclear when a sustained economic recovery could occur and what a recovery may look like. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position.

The ultimate magnitude of COVID effects, including the extent of its impact on the Company&#8217;s financial and operational results, which could be material, will be determined by the length of time that the pandemic continues, its effect on the demand for the Company&#8217;s services, as well as the effect of governmental regulations imposed in response to the pandemic. We cannot at this time predict the impact of the COVID pandemic, but it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.

Geopolitical Uncertainties 

International, national and regional trade laws, regulations and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade), and government farm programs and policies could significantly impair John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects. 

International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere&#8217;s products, services, and technology, or those of its customers, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere&#8217;s multinational business and subject John Deere to civil and criminal sanctions for violations. John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets impairs John Deere&#8217;s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world, and limits the ability to access raw materials and high quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions, including withdrawal from or modification of existing trade agreements, negotiation of new trade agreements, and imposition of new (and retaliatory) tariffs against certain countries or covering certain products, including developments in U.S.-China trade relations, could limit John Deere&#8217;s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere&#8217;s ability to expand the business by offering new technologies, products and services. These trade restrictions, and changes in or uncertainty surrounding global trade policies may affect John Deere&#8217;s competitive position. Furthermore, market access and the ability to export agricultural and forestry commodities is critical to John Deere&#8217;s agricultural and forestry customers. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales could be especially harmed by such policies because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. 

Additionally, changes in government farm programs and policies, including direct payment and other subsidies, can significantly influence demand for agricultural equipment. 

Furthermore, embargoes, sanctions and export controls imposed by the U.S. and other governments restricting or prohibiting transactions with certain persons or entities, including financial institutions, to certain countries or regions, or involving certain products, limit the sales of John Deere products and expose John Deere to potential criminal and civil sanctions. Embargoes, sanctions, and export control laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to Russia, China, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. In particular, changing U.S. export controls and sanctions on China, as well as other restrictions affecting transactions involving China and Chinese parties, could affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to collect receivables, provide aftermarket and warranty support for John Deere equipment, sell products, and otherwise impact Deere&#8217;s reputation and business. Although John Deere has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of import and export laws and sanctions, violations of these laws or sanctions could harm John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and business, and may subject John Deere or the Company to civil and criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s or the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition.

Greater political, economic, and social uncertainty and the evolving globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s competition, customer base, and product offerings and impact John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s growth opportunities globally. 

John Deere&#8217;s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent upon access to additional geographic markets and its success in developing market share and operating profitably in such markets. In some cases, such as Argentina, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere&#8217;s other markets. Negative market conditions resulting from economic and political uncertainties in these and other countries could reduce customer confidence, resulting in declines in demand and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could affect write-offs and provisions for credit losses. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes the Company and John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices, and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, sanctions and export control requirements, repatriation of earnings, and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations which can materially affect the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s financial results. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and its brands are widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brands are less well known in some emerging markets which could impede John Deere&#8217;s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. Although John Deere is taking measures to adapt to these changing circumstances, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and/or business results could be negatively affected should these efforts prove unsuccessful.

Uncertain Economic Conditions 

Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for John Deere&#8217;s equipment and services, limit access to funding, and result in higher funding costs for the Company and John Deere. 

The demand for the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, cautious consumer spending, lower corporate earnings, U.S. budget issues, and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions causing John Deere&#8217;s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their likelihood of purchasing John Deere&#8217;s equipment. As discussed under Risks Related to the COVID Pandemic&#8211; The COVID pandemic resulted in additional risks that could materially adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows , the COVID pandemic caused a global recession and significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. Sustained negative economic conditions and outlook affect housing starts, energy demand, and other construction which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere&#8217;s turf operations and its construction and forestry business are dependent on construction activity and general economic conditions. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s results of operations. If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales. In addition, uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook can 

cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company&#8217;s earnings and cash flows. Additionally, the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes in the equity and bond markets, which would negatively affect earnings.

In addition, demand for the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s products and services can be significantly reduced by concerns regarding the diverse economic and political circumstances of the individual countries in the eurozone, the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, uncertainty following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or the long-term stability of the euro as a single common currency. Persistent disparity with respect to the widely varying economic conditions within the individual countries in the eurozone, and its implications for the euro as well as market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s euro-denominated assets and obligations, have an adverse effect on demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and services in the eurozone, and have an adverse effect on financial markets in Europe and globally. More specifically, it could affect the ability of the Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, and the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products.

Financial Risks 

Because the Company is subject to interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins, and limit access to capital markets while increasing borrowing costs. 

Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of the Company&#8217;s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers&#8217; ability to repay obligations to the Company. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs which are very important to the Company because such costs affect the Company&#8217;s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. While the Company strives to match the interest rate characteristics of our financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s net interest rate margin&#8212;the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company&#8217;s net interest income and earnings. Actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company&#8217;s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.

Changes in government banking, monetary, and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on the Company. 

Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s customers and markets. The Company&#8217;s operations and results could also be impacted by financial regulatory reform that could have an adverse effect on the Company and its customers by limiting their ability to enter into hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. The Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s operations, including those outside of the United States, may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.

Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on John Deere and the Company. 

John Deere and the Company are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. John Deere&#8217;s domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. If John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount 

in excess of amounts previously accrued, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company&#8217;s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency exchange and translation risk. 

The Company operates in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. The Company is subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that its costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which it earns revenues. Additionally, the reporting currency for the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company&#8217;s assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are denominated in other countries&#8217; currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currency. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s results.

Because the Company is a financing company, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact the Company&#8217;s operations and financial results. 

Negative economic conditions can have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the Company operates. The Company provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere&#8217;s sales in many of the countries in which the Company operates. The Company is exposed to the risk that customers and others will default on contractual obligations. The Company may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company&#8217;s inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support its financing activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business. The Company&#8217;s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the Company&#8217;s write-offs and provision for credit losses.

The Company&#8217;s results could be adversely affected by a decrease in the value or higher than estimated returns of equipment on operating lease. 

The Company estimates the end-of-lease term residual value at the inception of the operating leases based on a number of factors, including historical sales, end-of-lease term return experience, intended use of the equipment, and current economic conditions in John Deere&#8217;s markets. Used equipment values may decrease as a result of any one or a combination of factors including market conditions, supply of and demand for used equipment, and technological advancements in new equipment. Lower residual value estimates could result in increasing operating lease depreciation, impairment losses, and losses on the sale of matured operating lease inventory, which would decrease the Company&#8217;s earnings.

Changes affecting the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;) may have consequences for the Company that may not yet be reasonably predicted. 

The Company has outstanding debt, derivative and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The LIBOR benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of LIBOR after 2021. These reforms may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past and LIBOR may ultimately cease to exist after 2021. Alternative benchmark rate(s) may replace LIBOR and could affect the Company&#39;s debt securities, derivative instruments, receivables, debt payments and receipts. At this time, the effects of any phase out of LIBOR or any adoption of alternative benchmark rates are still unclear. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could impact our contracts that terminate after 2021. There is uncertainty about how applicable law, the courts or the Company will address the replacement of LIBOR with alternative rates on variable rate retail loan contracts and other contracts that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions. In addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital 

markets, which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for our securities.

Market Conditions 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to understand its customers&#8217; specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer demand, could significantly affect its business results. 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to match new product offerings to diverse global customers&#8217; anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere&#8217;s existing and potential customers on a global basis. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s business, which could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

Changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of bio-energy could affect the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. 

Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world&#8217;s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower farm commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere&#8217;s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Furthermore, changing bio-energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for John Deere&#8217;s diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards. These changes could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

Data Security and Privacy 

Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company&#8217;s information technology infrastructure could interfere with the Company&#8217;s operations and could compromise the Company&#8217;s and its customer&#8217;s information, exposing the Company to liability that would cause the Company&#8217;s business and reputation to suffer. 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including loan application and collection of payments from dealers or other purchasers of John Deere equipment. The Company uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, as well as personally identifiable information of the Company&#8217;s customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to the Company&#8217;s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, the Company&#8217;s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals or breaches due to employee or supplier error or malfeasance or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise the Company&#8217;s networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability, or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage the Company&#8217;s reputation, which could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, the Company may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of its systems.

The Company is subject to governmental laws, regulations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection and any inability or perceived inability of the Company to address these requirements could adversely affect our business. 

The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The Company collects personal information and other data as integral parts of its business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory and other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union and other relevant jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal information and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions. The European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act impose stringent data protection requirements and provide significant penalties for noncompliance. New privacy laws will continue to come into effect around the world in 2021. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to the Company or company officials, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business.

Human Capital Risks 

The Company&#8217;s ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could impact its ability to execute its strategy. 

The Company&#8217;s continued success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background and experience. Further, the Company&#8217;s success depends, in part, on its ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage and retain qualified employees, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new employees, or inadequate resources to train, integrate and retain qualified employees, could impair the Company&#8217;s ability to execute its business strategy, and could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business. In addition, while the Company strives to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, the Company&#8217;s operations or ability to execute its business strategy may be impacted by the loss of employees, particularly when departures involve groups of employees, such as the voluntary and involuntary separation programs in fiscal 2020. Employee separation programs may adversely affect the Company through decreased employee morale, the loss of knowledge of departing employees, and the devotion of resources to reorganizing and reassigning job roles and responsibilities. The Company&#8217;s ability to meet its business objectives may be affected by the departure of employees, and the expected cost savings of the employee separation programs may not be achieved due to delays or other factors. Further, the departure of groups of employees could increase the risk to the Company of claims or litigation from former employees.

Environmental, Climate, and Weather Risks 

Unfavorable weather conditions or natural calamities that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment could directly and indirectly affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business. 

Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere&#8217;s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times, and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Temperature affects the rate of growth, crop maturity, and crop quality. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, droughts, diseases, and pests can have significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment and the financial condition and credit risk of our dealers and customers. Sales of turf equipment, particularly during the important spring selling season, can be dramatically impacted by weather. Adverse weather 

conditions in a particular geographic region may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.

New or more stringent greenhouse gas emission standards designed to address climate change could increase costs to John Deere and the physical effects attributed to climate change could further impact its facilities, suppliers and customers. 

There is global scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) continue to alter the composition of Earth&#8217;s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations may lead to new international, national, regional or local legislative or regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere, are continuing to look for ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources could result in additional costs to John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, facilities improvements and energy costs, which would increase John Deere&#8217;s operating costs through higher utility, transportation and materials costs. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also impact customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Because the impact of any future GHG legislative, regulatory or product standard requirements on John Deere&#8217;s global businesses and products is dependent on the timing and design of mandates or standards, John Deere is unable to predict its potential impact at this time.

Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers and customers and therefore on John Deere&#8217;s operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include extreme weather events and long-term changes in temperature levels and water availability. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and the financial performance of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations.

Bribery and Corruption Risks 

The Company is subject to extensive anti-corruption laws and regulations, the violation of which could adversely affect the Company. 

The Company&#8217;s global operations must comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. These anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although the Company has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws, violations of these laws could result in criminal or civil sanctions and have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s reputation, business, and results of operations and financial condition.

