Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Organization The Company’s equipment operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to John Deere dealers and distributors. The equipment operations manufacture and distribute a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; and a broad range of equipment for construction, roadbuilding, and forestry. The Company’s financial services primarily provide credit services, which mainly finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and trade receivables purchased from the equipment operations. In addition, financial services offers extended equipment warranties. The information in the following discussion is presented in a format that includes information grouped as consolidated, equipment operations, and financial services. The Company also views its operations as consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada. The Company’s operating segments consist of agriculture and turf, construction and forestry, and financial services. Trends and Economic Conditions Industry sales of agricultural machinery in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be down about 10 percent for fiscal year 2020 compared to the prior year. Industry sales in Europe are forecast to be 5 to 10 percent lower in 2020. South American industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to be down 10 to 15 percent. Asian industry sales are forecast to be down moderately in 2020. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be about 10 percent lower in 2020. The Company’s agriculture and turf segment sales decreased 18 percent in the second quarter and 13 percent for the first six months. Construction equipment industry sales in North America for 2020 are expected to decline 20 to 30 percent. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be 15 to 20 percent lower. The Company’s construction and forestry segment sales decreased 25 percent in the second quarter and 18 percent in the first six months. COVID Effects and Actions During the second quarter of 2020 the effects of COVID and the related actions of governments and other authorities to contain COVID, including travel bans, shelter in place guidelines, shutdown orders, actions necessary to regularly clean facilities, and conforming with social distancing guidelines have significantly affected the Company’s operations, results, cash flows, and forecasts. The U.S. government and many other governments in countries where the Company operates have designated the Company an essential critical infrastructure business. This designation allows the Company to operate in support of its customers to the extent possible. The Company’s first priority in addressing the effects of COVID is the health, safety, and overall welfare of its employees. The Company activated previously established business continuity plans and proactively implemented health and safety measures at its operations around the world. These measures include employee health screening, using personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning and sanitation efforts, reworking factory layouts and staggered production schedules to conform with social distancing recommendations, eliminating all non-essential travel through at least June 30, 2020, and transitioning most of the non-factory workforce to work-at-home arrangements. The economic effects of COVID have reduced customer demand for many of the Company’s products and services, particularly small agriculture, turf, construction, forestry, and roadbuilding equipment (see Note 4), which resulted in lower shipment volumes. Certain of the Company’s factories have been subject to voluntary or government mandated temporary shutdowns, or were briefly idled due to component shortages, which reduced production capacity. These temporary shutdowns occurred primarily in Argentina, Brazil, France, and India. Suppliers in the U.S., Mexico, India, and Southern Europe have also been significantly affected by government and voluntary actions to limit the spread of COVID resulting in delivery delays, at times significant delays, or the inability to meet delivery requirements of critical raw material, parts, and components. The Company’s efforts to address these effects of COVID have resulted in operational inefficiencies. In addition, measures were taken for aggressively decreasing operational and selling, administrative, and general expenses with targeted reductions to research and development spending. Additional information is presented in the “Business Segment and Geographic Results.” 46 Most of the independent, third-party and Company owned dealers that sell and service the Company’s equipment and repair parts have also been designated as critical businesses. Those dealers are following government and health organization safety guidance, while continuing to provide sales and service to equipment users, especially farmers and essential use construction equipment. The available digital tools and connected support abilities incorporated into several products have allowed the dealers to remotely service many customer machines while maintaining appropriate social distancing protocols. These measures have helped customers continue the essential work of promoting food security and providing critical infrastructure. The Company and its employees are also taking actions to strengthen social safety nets in communities where the Company operates throughout the world. These include making donations of face shields and coverings to healthcare workers and first responders, along with contributing financial support to local food banks and Red Cross chapters. In addition, the Company took significant measures in the second quarter of 2020 to strengthen its financial position. Cash and cash equivalents increased to $8,900 million at May 3, 2020. In fiscal April, the Company issued notes in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $2,250 million that are due from 2025 to 2050. The Company likewise issued Euro-Medium-Term notes with aggregate principal totaling €2,000 million (approximately $2,170 million) that are due from 2024 to 2032. The Company also renewed its revolving credit facilities in the aggregate amount of $8,000 million on terms substantially similar, in all material respects, to the terms in the previous agreements. As of May 3, 2020, these revolving credit facilities were undrawn. To further strengthen its liquidity position, the Company suspended repurchases of its own common stock, eliminated a planned fourth quarter voluntary contribution of $300 million to a U.S. OPEB plan, and reduced planned capital expenditures. Additional information is presented in the “Capital Resources and Liquidity” section. When the financial effects of COVID on the Company’s distribution channel and equipment user customers started to appear, actions were taken to re-evaluate credit positions, work closely with those customers to understand potential liquidity concerns, and, if necessary, provide short-term payment relief on obligations owed to the Company. The payment relief provided on balances of trade receivables and financing receivables, and operating lease payments outstanding at May 3, 2020 was about 10 percent, 3 percent, and 2 percent of the portfolio balances, respectively. The allowance for credit losses was adjusted by $38 million in the second quarter of 2020 for additional losses estimated to be inherent in the Company’s financing receivables primarily related to construction equipment lending. Additional information is presented in Notes 4 and 11. Due to the financial effects of COVID and other macroeconomic issues, the Company recognized impairments in the second quarter of $114 million pretax (see Note 21). The future financial effects of COVID are unknown due to many factors. These factors include uncertainty of the effectiveness of governmental actions to address COVID, including health, monetary, and fiscal policies, the effect of elevated levels of sovereign and state debt, capital market disruptions, changes in demand and pricing for new and used equipment, trade agreements, other geopolitical events, significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and volatility in the price of many commodities. As a result, predicting the Company’s forecasted financial performance is difficult and subject to many assumptions. Further meaningful declines in the forecasted performance could result in additional impairments in future periods. The Company has sought to safeguard the health and well-being of employees while fulfilling its obligation as an essential business serving customers throughout the world. This proactive approach has kept employees safe and production facilities and parts distribution centers largely operational during this period. The Company remains committed to offering a full suite of advanced digital tools that give customers unique capabilities and help them perform their work more efficiently and profitably. Management’s goal is to successfully manage the pandemic’s effects and strengthen its position serving customers in the future. In the second quarter, the Company recorded impairments totaling $114 million pretax and approximately $105 million after-tax related to certain fixed assets, operating lease equipment, and a minority investment in a construction equipment company headquartered in South Africa (see Note 21). The voluntary employee-separation program’s total pretax expenses were $9 million and $136 million recognized in the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively. Included in first half of 2020 expense was $23 million for items excluded from operating profit and $3 million recorded by the financial services operations. Annual estimated savings from the separation program are approximately $85 million, with about $65 million expected in 2020 (see Note 20). Discrete income tax benefits also affected the first six months’ net income (see Note 9). The worldwide net sales and revenue, price realization, and the effect of currency translation for worldwide, U.S. and Canada, and outside U.S. and Canada in millions of dollars follows: Agriculture and turf sales decreased for the second quarter due to lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by price realization. Operating profit declined for the quarter primarily due to lower shipment volumes / sales mix, along with the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange. These factors were partially offset by price realization, lower selling, administrative, and general expenses, reduced production costs, and lower research and development expenses. Sales for the first six months decreased mainly as a result of lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by price realization. Operating profit for the first six months declined primarily resulting from lower shipment volumes / sales mix, voluntary employee-separation expenses, and the unfavorable effects of currency exchange. Partially offsetting these factors were price realization, lower production costs, decreased selling, administrative, and general expenses, and reduced research and development expenses. Construction & Forestry sales declined for the second quarter mainly due to lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by price realization. Second quarter operating profit deteriorated largely due to lower shipment volumes / sales mix, impairments in certain fixed assets and a minority investment in a construction equipment company headquartered in South Africa (see Note 21), and the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange, partially offset by lower production costs and price realization. The segment’s six month sales also decreased due to lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by price realization. The first six month’s operating profit moved lower mainly due to reduced shipment volumes / sales mix, impairments in certain fixed assets and a minority investment in a construction equipment company (see Note 21), voluntary employee-separation expenses, and the unfavorable effects of currency exchange, partially offset by lower production costs and price realization.  Financial services operating profit decreased for the quarter and first six months primarily due to a higher provision for credit losses and increased losses and impairments on lease residual values, partially offset by income earned on a higher average portfolio. Both periods were affected by unfavorable financing spreads. The average balance of receivables and leases financed was 3 percent higher in the second quarter and 5 percent higher in the first six months of 2020, compared with the same periods last year. Interest expense decreased in the second quarter and first six months of 2020 primarily as a result of lower average borrowing rates, partially offset by higher average borrowings. 52 The cost of sales to net sales ratio and other significant statement of consolidated income changes not previously discussed follow: The cost of sales to net sales ratio increased in the second quarter primarily due to the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange, impairment of fixed assets of an asphalt plant factory (see Note 21), and a less favorable product mix, partially offset by lower production costs and price realization. This ratio also increased in the first six months largely resulting from the unfavorable effects of currency exchange, the previously mentioned impairment, voluntary employee-separation expenses, and a less favorable product mix, partially offset by price realization and lower production costs. Research and development expenses decreased in both periods with targeted project reductions related to COVID spending adjustments. Selling, administrative and general expenses decreased in the second quarter primarily due to spending reductions and lower dealer commissions, partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses (see Note 11). These expenses for the first six months were about the same as 2019. Spending reductions, lower incentive compensation, and the favorable effects of foreign currency translation were offset by a higher provision for credit losses and voluntary employee-separation expenses (see Note 20). Other operating expenses increased in both periods primarily due to higher depreciation on operating leases and losses and impairments on operating lease residual values, partially offset by the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. Market Conditions • Agriculture and Turf. Industry sales of agricultural equipment are expected to decrease about 10 percent from 2019 for the U.S. and Canada, while sales in Europe are expected to be down 5 to 10 percent. South American industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to be down 10 to 15 percent. Asian industry sales are forecast to decrease moderately due in large part to the pandemic related shutdown in India. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be down about 10 percent for 2020. • Construction and Forestry. Industry construction equipment sales in North America are expected to decline by 20 to 30 percent for 2020. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be down 15 to 20 percent due to weaker demand in North America and Russia. • Financial Services. Full year 2020 results are expected to decline due to a higher provision for credit losses and less-favorable financing spreads, partially offset by lower losses and impairments on operating lease residual values. Safe Harbor Statement Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements under “Overview,” “Market Conditions,” and other forward-looking statements herein that relate to future events, expectations, and trends involve factors that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. The Company’s agricultural equipment business is subject to a number of uncertainties including the factors that affect farmers’ confidence and financial condition. These factors include demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions, soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, trade restrictions and tariffs (e.g., China), global trade agreements (e.g., the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement), the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms), the growth and sustainability of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of governments, changes in government farm programs and policies, international reaction to such programs, changes in and effects of crop insurance programs, changes in environmental regulations and their impact on farming practices, animal diseases (e.g., African swine fever) and their effects on poultry, beef and pork 53 consumption and prices and on livestock feed demand, and crop pests and diseases and the impact of the COVID pandemic on the agricultural industry including demand for, and production and exports of, agricultural products, and commodity prices. Factors affecting the outlook for the Company’s turf and utility equipment include consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, labor supply, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts and supply, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs. Many of these factors have been and may continue to be impacted by the global economic downturn resulting from the COVID pandemic and responses to the pandemic taken by governments and other authorities. Consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts, interest rates and the levels of public and non-residential construction are important to sales and results of the Company’s construction and forestry equipment. Prices for pulp, paper, lumber and structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment. Many of these factors affecting the outlook for the company’s construction and forestry equipment have been and may continue to be impacted by the global economic downturn resulting from the COVID pandemic and responses to the pandemic taken by governments and other authorities. All of the Company’s businesses and its results are affected by general economic conditions in the global markets and industries in which the Company operates; customer confidence in general economic conditions; government spending and taxing; foreign currency exchange rates and their volatility, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; interest rates (including the availability of IBOR reference rates); inflation and deflation rates; changes in weather patterns; the political and social stability of the global markets in which the Company operates; the effects of, or response to, terrorism and security threats; wars and other conflicts; natural disasters; and the spread of major epidemics (including the COVID pandemic) and government and industry responses to epidemics such as travel restrictions and extended shut down of businesses. Uncertainties related to the magnitude and duration of the COVID pandemic may significantly adversely affect the company’s business and outlook. These uncertainties include: prolonged reduction or closure of the company’s operations, or a delayed recovery in our operations; additional closures as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities; disruptions in the supply chain and a prolonged delay in resumption of operations by one or more key suppliers, or the failure of any key suppliers; the company’s ability to meet commitments to customers on a timely basis as a result of increased costs and supply challenges; the ability to receive goods on a timely basis and at anticipated costs; increased logistics costs; delays in the company’s strategic initiatives as a result of reduced spending on research and development; additional operating costs at facilities that remain open due to remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines and other COVID-related challenges; absence of employees due to illness; the impact of the pandemic on the company’s customers and dealers, and their delays in their plans to invest in new equipment; requests by the company’s customers or dealers for payment deferrals and contract modifications; the impact of disruptions in the global capital markets and/or continued declines in the company’s financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, which could impact the company’s ability to obtain funding in the future; and the impact of the pandemic on demand for our products and services as discussed above. It is unclear when an economic recovery could occur and what a recovery may look like. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions, changes in the Company’s credit ratings and any failure to comply with financial covenants in credit agreements could impact access to funding and funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Financial market conditions could also negatively impact customer access to capital for purchases of the Company’s products and customer confidence and purchase decisions, borrowing and repayment practices, and the number and size of customer loan delinquencies and defaults. A debt crisis, in Europe or elsewhere, could negatively impact currencies, global financial markets, social and political stability, funding sources and costs, asset and obligation values, customers, suppliers, demand for equipment, and Company operations and results. The Company’s investment management activities could be impaired by changes in the equity, bond and other financial markets, which would negatively affect earnings. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and elsewhere. The economic conditions and outlook could be further adversely affected by (i) uncertainty regarding any new or modified trade arrangements between the United Kingdom and the European Union and/or other countries, (ii) the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or (iii) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the Eurozone could cease to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the United Kingdom or the European Union, 54 and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. Any of these developments could affect our businesses, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Additional factors that could materially affect the Company’s operations, access to capital, expenses and results include changes in, uncertainty surrounding and the impact of governmental trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies, including financial regulatory reform and its effects on the consumer finance industry, derivatives, funding costs and other areas, and governmental programs, policies, tariffs and sanctions in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of certain industries or sectors; retaliatory actions to such changes in trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies; actions by central banks; actions by financial and securities regulators; actions by environmental, health and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions, carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions, noise and the effects of climate change; changes to GPS radio frequency bands or their permitted uses; changes in labor and immigration regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates, estimates, laws and regulations and Company actions related thereto; changes to and compliance with privacy regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign laws when expanding to new markets and otherwise; and actions by other regulatory bodies. Other factors that could materially affect results include production, design and technological innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; the loss of or challenges to intellectual property rights whether through theft, infringement, counterfeiting or otherwise; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components and whole goods; delays or disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or the loss of liquidity by suppliers; disruptions of infrastructures that support communications, operations or distribution; the failure of suppliers or the Company to comply with laws, regulations and Company policy pertaining to employment, human rights, health, safety, the environment, anti-corruption, privacy and data protection and other ethical business practices; events that damage the Company’s reputation or brand; significant investigations, claims, lawsuits or other legal proceedings; start-up of new plants and products; the success of new product initiatives; changes in customer product preferences and sales mix; gaps or limitations in rural broadband coverage, capacity and speed needed to support technology solutions; oil and energy prices, supplies and volatility; the availability and cost of freight; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the Company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; changes in demand and pricing for used equipment and resulting impacts on lease residual values; labor relations and contracts; changes in the ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; greater than anticipated transaction costs; the integration of new businesses; the failure or delay in closing or realizing anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; the implementation of organizational changes; the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits of cost reduction, productivity, or efficiency efforts; difficulties related to the conversion and implementation of enterprise resource planning systems; security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, technology failures and other disruptions to the Company’s and suppliers’ information technology infrastructure; changes in Company declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases; changes in the level and funding of employee retirement benefits; changes in market values of investment assets, compensation, retirement, discount and mortality rates which impact retirement benefit costs; and significant changes in health care costs. The liquidity and ongoing profitability of John Deere Capital Corporation and other credit subsidiaries depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations, costs, and purchases of the Company’s products. If general economic conditions deteriorate or capital markets become more volatile, including as a result of the COVID pandemic, funding could be unavailable or insufficient. Additionally, customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact write-offs and provisions for credit losses. The Company’s outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its outlook, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information concerning the Company and its businesses, including factors that could materially affect the Company’s financial results, is included in the Company’s other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q). 55 Critical Accounting Policies See the Company’s critical accounting policies discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to these policies. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate, the Company’s consolidated totals, equipment operations, and financial services operations. Consolidated Positive cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first six months of 2020 were $776 million. This cash inflow resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and a change in net retirement benefits, partially offset by a seasonal increase in receivables related to sales and inventories, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash inflows from investing activities were $30 million in the first six months of 2020, primarily due to a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $319 million, and collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of these receivables and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired by $195 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $441 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $32 million. Positive cash flows from financing activities were $4,343 million in the first six months of 2020 primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $5,098 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $70 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options), partially offset by dividends paid of $481 million and repurchases of common stock of $263 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $5,047 million during the first six months of this year. The increase in cash was primarily related to new equipment operations long-term borrowings to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID. Negative cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first six months of 2019 were $1,495 million. This cash outflow resulted primarily from a seasonal increase in receivables related to sales and inventories, along with an increase in overall demand, and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by net income adjusted for non-cash provisions, a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable, and a change in net retirement benefits. Cash outflows from investing activities were $372 million in the first six months of 2019, primarily due to purchases of property and equipment of $491 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $29 million. Partially offsetting these cash outflows were cash inflows from collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of receivables and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired by $188 million. Positive cash flows from financing activities were $1,473 million in the first six months of 2019 primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $2,375 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $95 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options), partially offset by repurchases of common stock of $481 million and dividends paid of $462 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $429 million during the first six months of 2019. The Company has access to most global markets at a reasonable cost and expects to have sufficient sources of global funding and liquidity to meet its funding needs. Sources of liquidity for the Company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization of retail notes (both public and private markets), and committed and uncommitted bank lines of credit. The Company’s commercial paper outstanding at May 3, 2020, November 3, 2019, and April 28, 2019 was $3,424 million, $2,698 million, and $4,875 million, respectively, while the total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities position was $9,526 million, $4,438 million, and $4,029 million, respectively. The total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $4,034 million, $2,731 million, and $2,252 million at May 3, 2020, November 3, 2019, and April 28, 2019, respectively. Lines of Credit. The Company also has access to bank lines of credit with various banks throughout the world. Worldwide lines of credit totaled $9,178 million at May 3, 2020, $4,614 million of which were unused. For the purpose of computing unused credit lines, commercial paper and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were primarily considered to constitute utilization. Included in the total credit lines at May 3, 2020 was a 364-day credit facility agreement of $3,000 million expiring in fiscal April 2021. In addition, total credit lines included long-term credit facility agreements of $2,500 million expiring in fiscal April 2024 and $2,500 million expiring in fiscal April 2025. These credit agreements require John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation) to maintain its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding securitization indebtedness, to 56 capital base (total subordinated debt and stockholder’s equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) at not more than 11 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit agreements also require the equipment operations to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end of each fiscal quarter. Under this provision, the Company’s excess equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at May 3, 2020 was $11,472 million. Alternatively under this provision, the equipment operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $21,306 million at May 3, 2020. All of these requirements of the credit agreement have been met during the periods included in the financial statements. Debt Ratings. To access public debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign shortterm and long-term credit ratings to the Company’s securities as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors. A security rating is not a recommendation by the rating agency to buy, sell, or hold Company securities. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw Company ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs, including costs of derivative transactions, and reduced access to debt capital markets. The senior long-term and short-term debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to unsecured Company debt securities by the rating agencies engaged by the Company are as follows: Trade accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to independent dealers. Trade receivables increased $756 million during the first six months of 2020, primarily due to a seasonal increase, partially offset by foreign currency translation. These receivables decreased $1,533 million, compared to a year ago, primarily due to lower shipment volumes due to the effects of COVID and other macroeconomic issues, and foreign currency translation. The ratios of worldwide trade accounts and notes receivable to the last 12 months’ net sales were 18 percent at May 3, 2020, compared to 15 percent at November 3, 2019 and 22 percent at April 28, 2019. Agriculture and turf trade receivables decreased $962 million and construction and forestry trade receivables decreased $571 million, compared to a year ago. The percentage of total worldwide trade receivables outstanding for periods exceeding 12 months was 3 percent at May 3, 2020, 3 percent at November 3, 2019, and 1 percent at April 28, 2019. Deere & Company stockholders’ equity was $11,864 million at May 3, 2020, compared with $11,413 million at November 3, 2019 and $11,919 million at April 28, 2019. The increase of $451 million during the first six months of 2020 resulted primarily from net income attributable to Deere & Company of $1,182 million, a change in the retirement benefits adjustment of $287 million, and an increase in common stock of $71 million, partially offset by dividends declared of $477 million, a change in cumulative translation adjustment of $398 million, and increase in treasury stock of $216 million. Equipment Operations The Company’s equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external financing sources. Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first six months of 2020 was $842 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for noncash provisions and a change in net retirement benefits. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, a seasonal increase in inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $4,281 million in the first six months of 2020. The increase in cash was primarily related to new equipment operations long-term borrowings to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID. Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first six months of 2019 was $708 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for noncash provisions and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from a seasonal increase in inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the 57 equipment operations, along with an increase in overall demand, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $298 million in the first six months of 2019. Trade receivables held by the equipment operations decreased $63 million during the first six months and decreased $189 million from a year ago. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. See the previous consolidated discussion of trade receivables. Inventories increased by $196 million during the first six months, primarily due to a seasonal increase partially offset by foreign currency translation. Inventories decreased by $990 million, compared to a year ago, due to forecasted lower demand related to COVID and other macroeconomic issues and foreign currency translation. A majority of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The ratios of inventories on a firstin, first-out (FIFO) basis (see Note 13), which approximates current cost, to the last 12 months’ cost of sales were 31 percent at May 3, 2020, compared to 29 percent at November 3, 2019 and 34 percent at April 28, 2019. Total interest-bearing debt, excluding finance lease liabilities, of the equipment operations was $11,343 million at May 3, 2020, compared with $6,446 million at November 3, 2019 and $6,074 million at April 28, 2019. The ratios of debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and stockholders’ equity) were 49 percent, 36 percent, and 34 percent at May 3, 2020, November 3, 2019, and April 28, 2019, respectively. In the second quarter of 2020, the equipment operations issued three tranches of notes in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $2,250 million that are due from 2025 to 2050. The equipment operations also issued EuroMedium-Term notes with aggregate principal totaling €2,000 million (approximately $2,170 million based on the exchange rate at the issue date) that are due from 2024 to 2032. In the second quarter of 2020, the equipment operations issued commercial paper in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $466 million. A portion, $448 million had an original term greater than 90 days. None of the commercial paper was repaid in the second quarter and is presented in “Increase in total short-term borrowings” in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The Company may from time to time seek to retire portions of its outstanding debt securities through cash repurchases or exchanges for other securities, in open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will be subject to and depend on prevailing market conditions, the company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. Property and equipment cash expenditures for the equipment operations in the first six months of 2020 were $440 million, compared with $490 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2020 are estimated to be approximately $870 million. In October 2019, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Unimil, a privately held Brazilian company in the aftermarket service parts business for sugarcane harvesters. The expected cash purchase price is R$375 million (or approximately $70 million based on the exchange rate at the end of the fiscal quarter). The Company expects to fund the acquisition and the transaction expenses with current cash. The transaction requires customary regulatory approval and is expected to close in the second half of 2020. Financial Services The financial services operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of commercial paper, term debt, securitization of retail notes, equity capital, and borrowings from Deere & Company. During the first six months of 2020, the cash provided by operating activities and financing activities was used primarily to increase trade and wholesale receivables. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $991 million in the first six months. Cash used for investing activities totaled $329 million in the first six months of 2020 primarily due to an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $673 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $32 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $319 million, and collections of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of these receivables and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired by $94 million. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $148 million, resulting primarily from an increase in borrowings from Deere & Company of $292 million and an increase in external borrowings of $94 million, partially offset by dividends paid to Deere & Company of $225 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $766 million in the first six months of 2020. 58 During the first six months of 2019, the cash provided by operating activities and financing activities was used primarily to increase trade and wholesale receivables. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $1,356 million in the first six months. Cash used for investing activities totaled $3,088 million in the first six months of 2019 primarily due to an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $3,028 million and the cost of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding the collection of these receivables and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $47 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $32 million. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $1,609 million, resulting primarily from an increase in external borrowings of $2,544 million, partially offset by a decrease in borrowings from Deere & Company of $611 million and dividends paid to Deere & Company of $312 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $131 million in the first six months of 2019. Receivables and leases held by the financial services operations consist of retail notes originated in connection with retail sales of new and used equipment by dealers of John Deere products, retail notes from non-Deere equipment customers, trade receivables, wholesale notes, revolving charge accounts, credit enhanced international export financing generally involving John Deere products, and financing and operating leases. Total receivables and leases decreased $1,108 million during the first six months of 2020 and decreased $37 million in the past 12 months. Acquisition volumes of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and leases were 4 percent higher in the first six months of 2020, compared with the same period last year, as volumes of retail notes and revolving charge accounts were higher, while volumes of financing and operating leases were lower. The amount of total trade receivables and wholesale notes increased compared to November 3, 2019 and decreased compared to April 28, 2019. Total external interest-bearing debt of the financial services operations was $38,761 million at May 3, 2020, compared with $38,888 million at November 3, 2019 and $38,645 million at April 28, 2019. Total external borrowings have changed generally corresponding with the level of receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in payables owed to Deere & Company, and the change in investment from Deere & Company. The financial services operations’ ratio of interest-bearing debt to stockholder’s equity was 8.3 to 1 at May 3, 2020, compared with 8.0 to 1 at November 3, 2019 and 8.0 to 1 at April 28, 2019. Capital Corporation has a revolving credit agreement to utilize bank conduit facilities to securitize retail notes (see Note 12). At May 3, 2020, this facility had a total capacity, or “financing limit,” of $3,500 million of secured financings at any time. After a two-year revolving period, unless the banks and Capital Corporation agree to renew, Capital Corporation would liquidate the secured borrowings over time as payments on the retail notes are collected. At May 3, 2020, $1,630 million of secured short-term borrowings was outstanding under the agreement. In the first six months of 2020, the financial services operations issued $1,770 million and retired $1,443 million of retail note securitization borrowings. In addition, during the first six months of 2020, the financial services operations issued $2,673 million and retired $3,163 million of long-term borrowings, which were primarily mediumterm notes. Dividends and Other Events The Company’s Board of Directors at its meeting on May 27, 2020 declared a quarterly dividend of $.76 per share payable August 10, 2020, to stockholders of record on June 30, 2020. In May 2020, the Company’s financial services operations entered into a retail note securitization using its bank conduit facility that resulted in securitization borrowings of approximately $743 million.