 ITEM 1. Business ##TABLE_END

General 

Associated Banc-Corp is a bank holding company registered pursuant to the BHC Act. Our bank subsidiary, Associated Bank traces its history back to the founding of the Bank of Neenah in 1861. We were incorporated in Wisconsin in 1964 and were inactive until 1969 when permission was received from the Federal Reserve to acquire three banks. At December 31, 2021, we owned one nationally chartered commercial bank headquartered in Green Bay, Wisconsin, which serves local communities across the upper Midwest, one nationally chartered trust company headquartered in Wisconsin, and 12 limited purpose banking and nonbanking subsidiaries either located in or conducting business primarily in our three state branch footprint (Wisconsin, Illinois, and Minnesota) that are closely related or incidental to the business of banking or financial in nature. Measured by total assets reported at December 31, 2021, we are the largest commercial bank holding company headquartered in Wisconsin. 

Services 

Through Associated Bank and various nonbanking subsidiaries, we provide a broad array of banking and nonbanking products and services to individuals and businesses through 215 banking branches at December 31, 2021, serving more than 100 communities, primarily within our three state branch footprint. Our business is primarily relationship-driven and is organized into three reportable segments: Corporate and Commercial Specialty; Community, Consumer, and Business; and Risk Management and Shared Services. 

See Note 21 Segment Reporting of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information concerning our reportable segments. 

We are not dependent upon a single or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on us. 

Human Capital Matters 

We are very fortunate to have a diverse, committed team of approximately 4,000 colleagues who are capable, determined and empowered to drive our company forward. None of our colleagues are represented by unions. 

Colleague Engagement: By strengthening our workforce and providing opportunities for all colleagues to apply their talent and grow as professionals, we strive to foster pride in working for Associated and to be recognized as the employer of choice among Midwestern financial services firms. Our colleagues and communities have responded to and recognized our efforts: 

&#8226; 85% of our colleagues provided feedback through an annual workplace survey conducted by a third party on key topics related to the overall health and culture of the organization. Colleague engagement has continued to be a focus for the company since our first survey in 2015. 

&#8226; Associated Bank continues to be recognized as a Top Workplace. In 2021, we earned the Top Workplaces USA Award, Top Workplaces Financial Services 2021, and Top Workplaces for Top Leaders 2021 awards. Regionally, Associated Bank was named a Top Workplaces 2021 award winner in Chicago, Milwaukee, and Madison. 

Training and Development: Through internal and external training and development programs, we help our colleagues improve their skills so they can achieve their career goals and transition to more challenging roles. In 2021, 22% of colleagues, through nearly 900 internal promotions or lateral moves, advanced their careers at the Corporation. 

Health and Wellness: We focus on the whole person by offering wide-ranging healthcare programs, community volunteering opportunities, retirement plans, support for parents and families, and more. As of December 31, 2021: 

&#8226; Approximately 62%, or more than 2,500 colleagues, are enrolled in the Corporation&#8217;s well-being platform. 

&#8226; Nearly 3,500 colleagues and spouses participated in the Corporation&#8217;s confidential biometric screening. 

&#8226; More than 1,400 colleagues received well-being reimbursement for the purchase of item(s) such as gym memberships, home fitness equipment and/or fitness tracking devices. 

Market-based Pay and Rewards: We regularly review our pay and benefits programs to ensure we are offering a total compensation package, including salary, incentive pay, and benefits that is fair, equitable, and competitive in our marketplace. 

Culture: We believe our success begins and ends with people. For this reason, fostering a culture where people feel valued, respected, and comfortable sharing ideas and perspectives is at the core of the Bank. Our culture is anchored in the belief that we are better together, and great ideas can come from anywhere in the Bank. Further, we feel a critical component of our success is our ability to recognize and value diversity and inclusion, both internally and in the communities we serve. 

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Our DE&#38;I efforts focus on enhancing our workforce, strengthening our markets, and fostering a culture of belonging for our colleagues, customers, and the communities we serve. These efforts are supported by members of the Corporation&#8217;s seven Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) who work to drive greater organizational awareness of and to address the unique needs of young professionals, women, veterans, LGBTQ+, people of color and various cultures, and disability communities. 

As of December 31, 2021, as a result of these efforts, our colleague diversity representation is as follows: 

&#8226; People of color represented 16%, protected veterans represented 2%, and people with disabilities represented 12% of our workforce. 

&#8226; We continue to advance diversity representation at all levels across our organization. At year end, women or people of color represented 63% of all Assistant Vice President roles; women represented 32% of all Senior Vice President roles. 

&#8226; In addition, 33% of our Executive Leadership Team and 36% of our Board of Directors are represented by women or people of color. 

We continue to develop and implement programs to support DE&#38;I: 

&#8226; All colleagues participate in annual DE&#38;I training; leaders have the opportunity for specialized training to understand the unique opportunities for hiring, and retaining, underrepresented groups. 

&#8226; To specifically support the LGBTQ+ community, we have recently added the option to include gender pronouns to email signatures and candidate applications and have reinstituted domestic partner benefits. 

&#8226; We launched the Black Colleague Resource Group to promote the hiring, retention, advancement, and development of Black and African American talent at Associated Bank while representing and supporting the Black and African American community. 

&#8226; We created the Associated Bank Honors Program that includes a wide range of veteran-focused initiatives in an effort to reach and recruit military veterans. 

In 2021, we supported our diverse customers and communities as follows: 

&#8226; Provided loan and investments to create affordable housing options, support community services, and promote economic development in our markets. 

&#8226; Provided financial support to promote affordable housing and small-business development in all of our neighborhoods. 

&#8226; Donated millions of dollars in charitable grants to local nonprofits that support, enhance, and build our communities. 

&#8226; Invested in renewable energy sources and continued to improve the environmental impacts of our community branches. 

Our DE&#38;I efforts have been recognized by our communities as follows: 

&#8226; Achieved a score of 100/100 on Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, thus earning the designation as a "Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality!" 

&#8226; Recipient of the 2021 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award, in recognition of our exemplary support of its National Guard and Reserve colleagues. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete for loans, deposits, and financial services in all of our principal markets. We compete directly with other bank and nonbank institutions located within our markets, internet-based banks, out-of-market banks and bank holding companies that advertise or otherwise serve our markets, money market funds and other mutual funds, brokerage houses, and various other financial institutions. Additionally, we compete with insurance companies, leasing companies, regulated small loan companies, credit unions, governmental agencies and commercial entities offering financial services products, including nonbank lenders and so-called financial technology companies. Competition involves, among other things, efforts to retain current customers and to obtain new loans and deposits, the scope and types of services offered, interest rates paid on deposits and charged on loans, as well as other aspects of banking. We also face direct competition from subsidiaries of bank holding companies that have far greater assets and resources than ours. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Overview 

The Corporation and its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and oversight both at the federal and state levels. The following is an overview of the statutory and regulatory framework that affects the business of the Corporation and our subsidiaries. 

BHC Act Requirements 

As a registered bank holding company under the BHC Act, we are regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve. In connection with applicable requirements, bank holding companies file periodic reports and other information with the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act also governs the activities that are permissible for bank holding companies and their affiliates and permits the Federal Reserve, in certain circumstances, to issue cease and desist orders and other enforcement actions against bank holding companies and their nonbanking affiliates to correct and curtail unsafe or unsound banking practices. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and longstanding Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies are required to act as a source of financial strength to each of their banking subsidiaries pursuant to which such holding company may be required to commit financial resources to support such subsidiaries in circumstances when, absent such requirements, they might not otherwise do so. The BHC Act further regulates holding company activities, including requirements and limitations relating to capital, transactions with officers, directors and affiliates, securities issuances, dividend payments, inter-affiliate liabilities, extensions of credit, and expansion through mergers and acquisitions. 

The BHC Act allows certain qualifying bank holding companies that elect treatment as &#8220;financial holding companies&#8221; to engage in activities that are financial in nature and that explicitly include the underwriting and sale of insurance. The Parent Company thus far has not elected to be treated as a financial holding company. Bank holding companies that have not elected such treatment generally must limit their activities to banking activities and activities that are closely related to banking. 

Effective September 30, 2020, the Federal Reserve finalized a rule that simplifies and increases transparency of its rules for determining when one company controls another company for purposes of the BHC Act and, on March 31, 2021, the Federal Reserve published interpretive guidance regarding the final rule and related regulatory control matters. The amended control rule thus far has had, and will likely continue to have, a meaningful impact on control determinations related to investments in banks and bank holding companies and investments by bank holding companies in nonbank companies. 

Regulation of Associated Bank and Trust Company Subsidiaries 

Associated Bank and our nationally chartered trust company subsidiary are regulated, supervised and examined by the OCC. The OCC has primary supervisory and regulatory authority over the operations of Associated Bank and the Corporation's trust 

company subsidiary. As part of this authority, Associated Bank and our trust company subsidiaries are required to file periodic reports with the OCC and are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. To support its supervisory function, the OCC has the authority to assess and charge fees on all national banks according to a set fee schedule. Due to increased operating efficiencies, the OCC reduced the rates in all fee schedules by 3 percent for the 2021 calendar year, thus reducing the assessment fees that Associated Bank paid in 2021. This reduction was in addition to the OCC's final rule passed in 2020, which reduced the assessments paid to the OCC on September 30, 2020 in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. On December 1, 2021, the OCC published its assessment rates for the 2022 calendar year, maintaining the rates from 2021. 

Associated Bank, our only subsidiary that accepts insured deposits, is also subject to examination by the FDIC. We are subject to the enforcement and rule-making authority of the CFPB regarding consumer financial products. The CFPB has the authority to create and enforce consumer protection rules and regulations and has the power to examine us for compliance with such rules and regulations. The CFPB also has the authority to prohibit &#8220;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#8221; acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Associated Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act weakened the federal preemption available for national banks and gave broader rights to state attorneys general to enforce certain federal consumer protection laws. The Economic Growth Act, enacted in 2018, repealed or modified several important provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the Economic Growth Act raised the total asset thresholds to $250 billion for Dodd-Frank Act annual company-run stress testing, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, and resolution planning requirements for bank holding companies, subject to the ability of the Federal Reserve to apply such requirements to institutions with assets of $100 billion or more to address financial stability risks or safety and soundness concerns. In 2019, the OCC adopted a final rule implementing portions of the Economic Growth Act, which, among other things, raised the minimum threshold for national banks to conduct stress tests from $10 billion to $250 billion. As a result of the final rule, the Bank is no longer subject to Dodd-Frank Act stress testing requirements. 

The Economic Growth Act also enacted several important changes in some technical compliance areas, for which the banking agencies have now issued certain corresponding guidance documents and implemented regulations, including: 

&#8226; Prohibiting federal banking regulators from imposing higher capital standards on HVCRE exposures unless they are for ADC, and clarifying ADC status; 

&#8226; Requiring the federal banking agencies to amend the Liquidity Coverage Ratio Rule such that all qualifying investment-grade, liquid and readily-marketable municipal securities are treated as level 2B liquid assets, making them more attractive investment alternatives; 

&#8226; Exempting from appraisal requirements certain transactions involving real property in rural areas and valued at less than $400,000; and 

&#8226; Directing the CFPB to provide guidance on the applicability of the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure rule to mortgage assumption transactions and construction-to-permanent home loans, as well the extent to which lenders can rely on model disclosures that do not reflect recent regulatory changes. 

Legislative and Regulatory Responses to the COVID-19 Pandemic 

The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to cause extensive disruptions to the global economy, to businesses, and to the lives of individuals throughout the world. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was signed into law. The CARES Act was a $2.2 trillion economic stimulus bill that was intended to provide relief in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. There have also been a number of regulatory actions intended to help mitigate the adverse economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on borrowers, including several mandates from the bank regulatory agencies, requiring financial institutions to work constructively with borrowers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The bank regulatory agencies ensured that adequate flexibility will be given to financial institutions who work with borrowers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and indicated that they would not criticize institutions who do so in a safe and sound manner. Further, the bank regulatory agencies have encouraged financial institutions to report accurate information to credit bureaus regarding relief provided to borrowers and have urged the importance of financial institutions to continue assisting those borrowers impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Also, on April 3, 2020, the bank regulatory agencies issued a joint policy statement to facilitate mortgage servicers&#8217; ability to place consumers in short-term payment forbearance programs. This policy statement was followed by an interim final rule, on June 23, 2020, that makes it easier for consumers to transition out of financial hardship caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The rule makes it clear that servicers do not violate Regulation X (which places restrictions and requirements upon lenders, mortgage brokers, or servicers of home loans related to consumers when they apply for and receive mortgage loans) by offering certain COVID-19-related loss mitigation options based on an evaluation of limited application information collected from the borrower. A final rule issued by the bank regulatory agencies 

on June 28, 2021 permits servicers to also offer certain COVID-19 related loan modification options based on the evaluation of an incomplete application. Federal and state moratoria on evictions and foreclosures that were implemented during 2020 in response to COVID-19 were extended late into 2021. Although these programs generally have expired, governmental authorities may take additional actions in the future to limit the adverse impact of COVID-19 on borrowers and tenants. 

The PPP, originally established under the CARES Act and extended under the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021, authorized financial institutions to make federally-guaranteed loans to qualifying small businesses and non-profit organizations. These loans carry an interest rate of 1% per annum and a maturity of 2 years for loans originated prior to June 5, 2020 and 5 years for loans originated on or after June 5, 2020. The PPP provides that such loans may be forgiven if the borrowers meet certain requirements with respect to maintaining employee headcount and payroll and the use of the loan proceeds after the loan is originated. The initial phase of the PPP, after being extended multiple times by Congress, expired on August 8, 2020. However, on January 11, 2021, the SBA reopened the PPP for First Draw PPP loans to small businesses and non-profit organizations that did not receive a loan through the initial PPP phase. Further, on January 13, 2021, the SBA reopened the PPP for Second Draw PPP loans to small businesses and non-profit organizations that did receive a loan through the initial PPP phase. Maximum loan amounts were also increased for accommodation and food service businesses. Although the PPP ended in accordance with its terms on May 31, 2021, outstanding PPP loans continue to go through the process of either obtaining forgiveness from the SBA or pursuing claims under the SBA guaranty. 

Banking Acquisitions 

We are required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before acquiring more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. In addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution&#8217;s record of addressing the credit needs of the communities it serves, including the needs of low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank, under the CRA. 

On July 9, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy. Among other initiatives, the Executive Order encouraged the federal banking agencies to review their current merger oversight practices under the BHC Act and the Bank Merger Act and adopt a plan for revitalization of such practices. There are many steps that must be taken by the agencies before any formal changes to the framework for evaluating bank mergers can be finalized and the prospects for such action are uncertain at this time; however, the adoption of more expansive or prescriptive standards may have an impact on our acquisition activities. See the Risk Factors section for a more extensive discussion of this topic. 

Banking Subsidiary Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and other nonbanking subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our cash flow comes from dividends paid to us by Associated Bank. The OCC&#8217;s prior approval of the payment of dividends by Associated Bank to the Parent Company is required only if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year exceeds the sum of the Bank&#8217;s retained net income for that year and its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to surplus. Federal law also prohibits national banks from paying dividends that would be greater than the bank&#8217;s undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of the bank&#8217;s allowance for loan losses. In addition, under the FDICIA, an IDI, such as the Bank, is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; (as such term is used in the FDICIA). 

Holding Company Dividends 

In addition, we and the Bank are subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank holding company that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the requirements of the Federal Reserve, the Parent Company, as a bank holding company, is required to serve as a source of financial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank. In addition, consistent with its &#8220;source of strength&#8221; policy, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a level of cash dividends to its shareholders that places undue pressure on the capital of its bank subsidiaries, or that can be funded only through additional borrowings or other arrangements that may undermine the bank holding company&#8217;s ability to serve as a source of strength. The appropriate federal regulatory authorities have indicated that paying dividends that 

deplete a bank&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Capital Requirements 

We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements both at the Parent Company and at the Bank level administered by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (described below), we must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting policies. Our capital amounts and classification are also subject to judgments by the regulators regarding qualitative components, risk weightings, and other factors. We have consistently maintained regulatory capital ratios at or above the well capitalized standards. 

In 2013, the Federal Reserve and the OCC issued final rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. These rules implemented certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. The final rules seek to strengthen the components of regulatory capital, increase risk-based capital requirements, and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The final rules, among other things: 

&#8226; revised minimum capital requirements and adjusted prompt corrective action thresholds; 

&#8226; revised the components of regulatory capital and created a new capital measure called &#8220;Common Equity Tier 1,&#8221; which must constitute at least 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; specified that Tier 1 capital consists only of CET1 and certain &#8220;Additional Tier 1 Capital&#8221; instruments meeting specified requirements; 

&#8226; applied most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures to CET1 and not to other components of capital, potentially requiring higher levels of CET1 in order to meet minimum ratio requirements; 

&#8226; increased the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement from 4% to 6%; 

&#8226; retained the existing risk-based capital treatment for 1-4 family residential mortgage exposures; 

&#8226; permitted most banking organizations, including the Parent Company, to retain, through a one-time permanent election, the existing capital treatment for accumulated other comprehensive income; 

&#8226; implemented a new capital conservation buffer of CET1 capital equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets, which is in addition to the 4.5% CET1 capital ratio, which buffer generally is required to make capital distributions and pay executive bonuses; 

&#8226; increased capital requirements for past due loans, HVCRE exposures, and certain short-term loan commitments; 

&#8226; required the deduction of MSAs and DTAs that exceed 10% of CET1 capital in each category and 15% of CET1 capital in the aggregate; and 

&#8226; removed references to credit ratings consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act and established due diligence requirements for securitization exposures. 

Through subsequent rulemaking, the federal banking agencies provided certain forms of relief to banking organizations that are not subject to the capital rule's advanced approaches, such as the Corporation. 

For instance, non-advanced approaches institutions are subject to simpler regulatory capital requirements for MSAs, certain DTAs arising from temporary differences, investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, and requirements for the amount of capital issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a banking organization and held by third parties (sometimes referred to as a minority interest) that is includable in regulatory capital. 

In addition, certain general requirements of the capital rules have been eliminated in respect of non-advanced approaches institutions, including (i) the capital rule&#8217;s 10 percent CET 1 capital deduction threshold that applies individually to MSAs, temporary difference DTAs, and significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock; (ii) the aggregate 15 percent CET1 capital deduction threshold that subsequently applies on a collective basis across such items; (iii) the 10 percent CET1 capital deduction threshold for non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions; and (iv) the deduction treatment for significant investments in the capital of 

unconsolidated financial institutions not in the form of common stock. Accordingly, banking organizations not subject to the advanced approaches capital rule may deduct from CET1 capital any amount of MSAs, temporary difference DTAs, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions that individually exceeds 25 percent of CET1 capital. 

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the last version of the Basel III accord in 2017, generally referred to as &#8220;Basel IV.&#8221; The Basel Committee stated that a key objective of the revisions incorporated into the framework is to reduce excessive variability of risk-weighted assets, which will be accomplished by enhancing the robustness and risk sensitivity of the standardized approaches for credit risk and operational risk. This will facilitate the comparability of banks&#8217; capital ratios, constraining the use of internally modeled approaches, and complementing the risk-weighted capital ratio with a finalized leverage ratio and a revised and robust capital floor. Leadership of the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC, who are tasked with implementing Basel IV, supported the revisions. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to the Corporation. The impact of Basel IV on us will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the federal bank regulators. 

We continue to exceed all capital requirements necessary to be deemed "well-capitalized" for all regulatory purposes under the capital rules. For further detail on capital and capital ratios, see discussion under the Liquidity and Capital sections under Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and under Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 19 Regulatory Matters of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 

Current Expected Credit Loss Treatment 

In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, &#8220;Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,&#8221; which replaced the &#8220;incurred loss&#8221; model for recognizing credit losses with an &#8220;expected loss&#8221; model referred to as the CECL model. Under the CECL model, we are required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and HTM debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. On December 21, 2018, the federal banking agencies approved a final rule modifying their regulatory capital rules and providing an option to phase in over a period of three years the day-one regulatory capital effects of the CECL model. The final rule also revises the agencies&#8217; other rules to reflect the update to the accounting standards. The final rule took effect April 1, 2019. However, on August 26, 2020, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that allows institutions that adopted the CECL accounting standard in 2020 the option to mitigate the estimated capital effects of CECL for two years, followed by a three-year transition period. Taken together, these measures offer institutions a transition period of up to five years. The Corporation elected to utilize the 2020 Capital Transition Relief as permitted under applicable regulations. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

As part of the regulatory relief provided by the Economic Growth Act, the asset threshold requiring IDIs to conduct and report to their primary federal bank regulators annual company-run stress tests was raised from $10 billion to $250 billion in total consolidated assets and the requirement was made &#8220;periodic&#8221; rather than annual. The Economic Growth Act also provided that bank holding companies under $100 billion in assets were no longer subject to stress testing requirements. The amended regulations also provide the Federal Reserve with discretion to subject bank holding companies with more than $100 billion in total assets to enhanced supervision. In addition, Section 214 of the Economic Growth Act and its implementing regulation prohibit the federal banking agencies from requiring the Bank to assign a heightened risk weight to certain HVCRE ADC loans as previously required under the Basel III Capital Rules. Notwithstanding these regulatory amendments, the federal banking agencies indicated through interagency guidance that the capital planning and risk management practices of institutions with total assets less than $100 billion would continue to be reviewed through the regular supervisory process. Although the Corporation will continue to monitor and stress test its capital consistent with the safety and soundness expectations of the federal regulators, the Corporation no longer publishes stress testing results as a result of the legislative and regulatory amendments. 

Enforcement Powers of the Federal Banking Agencies; Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the CFPB have extensive supervisory authority over their regulated institutions, including, among other things, the power to compel higher reserves, the ability to assess civil money penalties, the ability to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and the ability to initiate injunctive actions. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Other actions or inactions by the Parent Company may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports. 

Federal banking regulators are authorized and, under certain circumstances, required to take certain actions against banks that fail to meet their capital requirements. The federal banking agencies have additional enforcement authority with respect to undercapitalized depository institutions. 

&#8220;Well capitalized&#8221; institutions may generally operate without supervisory restriction. &#8220;Adequately capitalized&#8221; institutions cannot normally pay dividends or make any capital contributions that would leave them undercapitalized; they cannot pay a management fee to a controlling person if, after paying the fee, they would be undercapitalized; and they cannot accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the bank has applied for and been granted a waiver by the FDIC. 

We note that the Economic Growth Act provides that reciprocal deposits are not treated as brokered deposits in the case of a &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; institution that received an &#8220;outstanding&#8221; or a &#8220;good&#8221; rating on its most recent examination to the extent the amount of such deposits does not exceed the lesser of $5 billion or 20% of the bank&#8217;s total liabilities. 

The federal banking agencies are required to take action to restrict the activities of an &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; IDI. Any such bank must submit a capital restoration plan that is guaranteed by the parent holding company. Until such plan is approved, it may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital distributions. In certain situations, a federal banking agency may reclassify a well-capitalized institution as adequately capitalized and may require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with supervisory actions as if the institution were in the next lower category. 

Institutions must file a capital restoration plan with the OCC within 45 days of the date it receives a notice from the OCC that it is &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Compliance with a capital restoration plan must be guaranteed by a parent holding company. In addition, the OCC is permitted to take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including but not limited to the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 

Finally, bank regulatory agencies have the ability to impose higher than normal capital requirements known as individual minimum capital requirements for institutions with a high-risk profile. 

At December 31, 2021, the Bank satisfied the capital requirements necessary to be deemed &#8220;well capitalized.&#8221; In the event of a change to this status, the imposition of any of the measures described above could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation and on its profitability and operations. The Corporation&#8217;s shareholders do not have preemptive rights and, therefore, if the Corporation is directed by the OCC or the FDIC to issue additional shares of common stock, such issuance may result in dilution in shareholders&#8217; percentage of ownership of the Corporation. 

Deposit Insurance Premiums 

Associated Bank is a member of the FDIC and pays an insurance premium to the FDIC based upon its assessment rates on a quarterly basis. Deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC and such insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a permanent increase in deposit insurance was authorized to $250,000 per depositor, per IDI for each account ownership category. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also set the minimum DIF reserve ratio at 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC was required to attain this ratio by September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the FDIC to define the deposit insurance assessment base for an IDI as an amount equal to the institution&#8217;s average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus average tangible equity. The assessment rate schedule for larger institutions like Associated Bank (i.e., institutions with at least $10 billion in assets) differentiates between such large institutions by use of a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; that combines an institution&#8217;s CAMELS ratings with certain forward-looking financial information to measure the risk to the DIF. Pursuant to this &#8220;scorecard&#8221; method, two scores (a performance score and a loss severity score) will be combined and converted to an initial base assessment rate. The performance score measures an institution&#8217;s financial performance and ability to withstand stress. The loss severity score measures the relative magnitude of potential losses to the DIF in the event of the institution&#8217;s failure. Total scores are converted pursuant to a predetermined formula into an initial base assessment rate. Assessment rates range from 2.5 bp to 45 bp for large institutions. Premiums for Associated Bank are now calculated based upon the average balance of total assets minus average tangible equity as of the close of business for each day during the calendar quarter. 

On June 22, 2020, the FDIC issued a final rule that mitigates the deposit insurance assessment effects of participating in the PPP, the PPPLF and MMLF. Pursuant to the final rule, the FDIC generally removes the effect of PPP lending in calculating an institution's deposit insurance assessment. The final rule also provides an offset to an institution's total assessment amount for the increase in its assessment base attributable to participation in the PPP and MMLF. The final rule became effective on April 

1, 2020 and treatment of PPP loans as liquid assets under the rule remained in effect until July 30, 2021, which date represented the expiration of the final extension of the PPPLF authorized by the Federal Reserve. Other adjustments remain in effect until further rulemaking. 

The FDIC has the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. 

On September 30, 2018, the DIF reserve ratio reached 1.36 percent, exceeding the statutorily required minimum reserve ratio of 1.35 percent ahead of the September 30, 2020 deadline required under the Dodd-Frank Act. FDIC regulations provide that, upon reaching the minimum, surcharges on IDIs with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more will cease. The last quarterly surcharge was reflected in the Bank&#8217;s December 2018 assessment invoice, which covered the assessment period from July 1, 2018 through September 30, 2018. The Bank's assessment invoices have not included a quarterly surcharge since that time. 

Assessment rates, which declined for all banks when the reserve ratio first surpassed 1.15 percent in the third quarter of 2016, are expected to remain unchanged. Assessment rates are scheduled to decrease when the reserve ratio exceeds 2 percent. 

DIF-insured institutions pay a FICO assessment in order to fund the interest on bonds issued in the 1980s in connection with the failures in the thrift industry. The FICO assessment was computed on assets as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These assessments continued until the bonds matured in September 2019. The Corporation&#8217;s assessment rate for FDIC was approximately 6 bp for 2021. 

The FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of and require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. It is also authorized to terminate a depository bank&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank&#8217;s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for our national bank subsidiary would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, operations and financial condition. 

Historically, deposit insurance premiums we have paid to the FDIC have been deductible for federal income tax purposes; however, the Tax Act disallows the deduction of such premium payments for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. For banks with less than $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as ours, the premium deduction is phased out based on the proportion of a bank&#8217;s assets exceeding $10 billion. 

Brokered Deposits 

Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and FDIC regulations thereunder limit the ability of an IDI, such as the Bank, to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits unless the institution is well-capitalized under the prompt corrective action framework described above, or unless it is adequately capitalized and obtains a waiver from the FDIC. In addition, less than well-capitalized banks are subject to restrictions on the interest rates they may pay on deposits. The characterization of deposits as "brokered" may result in the imposition of higher deposit assessments on such deposits. As mandated by the Economic Growth Act, the FDIC adopted a final rule in February 2019 to include a limited exception for reciprocal deposits for FDIC-IDIs that are well rated and well capitalized (or adequately capitalized and have obtained a waiver from the FDIC as mentioned above). Under the limited exception, qualified FDIC-IDIs, like the Bank, are able to except from treatment as "brokered" deposits up to $5 billion or 20 percent of the institution's total liabilities in reciprocal deposits (which is defined as deposits received by a financial institution through a deposit placement network with the same maturity (if any) and in the same aggregate amount as deposits placed by the institution in other network member banks). 

On December 15, 2020, the FDIC issued a final rule amending its regulations governing brokered deposits. The rule sought to clarify and modernize the FDIC's regulatory framework for brokered deposits. Notable aspects of the rule include (1) the establishment of bright-line standards for determining whether an entity meets the statutory definition of "deposit broker"; (2) the identification of a number of business relationships in which the agent of nominee is automatically not deemed to be a "deposit broker" because their primary purpose is not the placement of funds with depository institutions (the "primary purpose exception"; (3) the establishment of a more transparent application process for entities that seek the "primary purpose exception", but do not qualify as one of the identified business relationships to which the exception is automatically applicable; and (4) the clarification that third parties that have an exclusive deposit-placement arrangement with only one IDI are not considered a "deposit broker." The final rule took effect on April 1, 2021 and full compliance is required by January 1, 2022. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies have adopted the Interagency Guidelines for Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness (the &#8220;Guidelines&#8221;). The Guidelines establish certain safety and soundness standards for all depository institutions. The 

operational and managerial standards in the Guidelines relate to the following: (1) internal controls and information systems; (2) internal audit systems; (3) loan documentation; (4) credit underwriting; (5) interest rate exposure; (6) asset growth; (7) compensation, fees and benefits; (8) asset quality; and (9) earnings. Rather than providing specific rules, the Guidelines set forth basic compliance considerations and guidance with respect to a depository institution. Failure to meet the standards in the Guidelines, however, could result in a request by the OCC to one of the nationally chartered banks to provide a written compliance plan to demonstrate its efforts to come into compliance with such Guidelines. Failure to provide a plan or to implement a provided plan requires the appropriate federal banking agency to issue an order to the institution requiring compliance. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Transactions between our national banking subsidiary and its related parties or any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate is any company or entity, which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank. In a holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a national bank, and any companies that are controlled by such parent holding company, are affiliates of the bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B (i) limit the extent to which an institution or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus, and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a nonaffiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar types of transactions. Certain types of covered transactions must be collateralized according to a schedule set forth in the statute based on the type of collateral. 

Certain transactions with our directors, officers or controlling persons are also subject to conflicts of interest regulations. Among other things, these regulations require that loans to such persons and their related interests be made on terms substantially the same as for loans to unaffiliated individuals and must not create an abnormal risk of repayment or other unfavorable features for the financial institution. See Note 4 Loans of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on loans to related parties. 

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements 

Associated Bank is subject to periodic CRA reviews by the OCC. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions and does not limit the ability of such institutions to develop products and services believed best-suited for a particular community. An institution&#8217;s CRA assessment may be used by its regulators in their evaluation of certain applications, including a merger, acquisition or the establishment of a branch office. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for denial of such an application. The Bank received a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating in its most recent evaluation. 

Privacy, Data Protection, and Cybersecurity 

We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to consumer privacy and data protection. Under privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and its implementing regulations and guidance, we are limited in our ability to disclose certain non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. Financial institutions, such as the Bank, are required by statute and regulation to notify consumers of their privacy policies and practices and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. In addition, such financial institutions must appropriately safeguard their customers&#8217; nonpublic, personal information. 

Consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach under applicable state laws. The changing privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, including the California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective in January 2020 and was amended in November 2020 by a ballot initiative titled the California Privacy Rights Act, create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal data. In addition, multiple states, Congress and regulators outside the United States are considering similar laws or regulations which could create new individual privacy rights and impose increased obligations on companies handling personal data. For example, on November 23, 2021, the federal financial regulatory agencies published a final rule that will impose upon banking organizations and their service providers new notification requirements for significant cybersecurity incidents. Specifically, the final rule requires banking organizations to notify their primary federal regulator as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the discovery of a "computer-security incident" that rises to the level of a "notification incident" within the meaning attributed to those terms by the final rule. Banks' service providers are required under the final rule to notify any affected bank to or on behalf of which the service provider provides services "as soon as possible" after determining that it has experienced an incident that materially disrupts or degrades, or is reasonably likely to materially disrupt or degrade, covered services provided to such bank for as much as four hours. The 

final rule will take effect on April 1, 2022 and banks and their service providers must be in compliance with the requirements of the rule by May 1, 2022. 

Federal banking agencies, including the OCC, have adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and cybersecurity programs for implementing safeguards under the supervision of the board of directors. These guidelines, along with related regulatory materials, increasingly focus on risk management and processes related to information technology and the use of third parties in the provision of financial services. In October 2016, the federal banking agencies issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cybersecurity risk-management and resilience standards that would apply to large and interconnected banking organizations and to services provided by third parties to these firms. These enhanced standards would apply only to depository institutions and depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, which would not currently include the Corporation. 

Recent cyberattacks against banks and other financial institutions that resulted in unauthorized access to confidential customer information have prompted the federal banking regulators to issue extensive guidance on cybersecurity. Among other things, financial institutions are expected to design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and ensure that their risk management processes address the risks posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to authenticate customers accessing internet-based services. A financial institution also should have a robust business continuity program to recover from a cyberattack and procedures for monitoring the security of third-party service providers that may have access to nonpublic data at the institution. During 2021, the Corporation did not discover any material cybersecurity incidents. 

Bank Secrecy Act / Anti-Money Laundering 

The BSA, which is intended to require financial institutions to develop policies, procedures, and practices to prevent and deter money laundering, mandates that every national bank have a written, board-approved program that is reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the BSA. The program must, at a minimum: (1) provide for a system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance; (2) provide for independent testing for compliance; (3) designate an individual responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance; and (4) provide training for appropriate personnel. In addition, national banks are required to adopt a customer identification program as part of their BSA compliance program. National banks are also required to file SARs when they detect certain known or suspected violations of federal law or suspicious transactions related to a money laundering activity or a violation of the BSA. In May 2016, the regulations implementing the BSA were amended, effective May 2018, to explicitly include risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence and procedures for understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile. In addition, FinCEN promulgated customer due diligence and customer identification rules that require banks to identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owners of all legal entity customers (other than those that are excluded) at the time a new account is opened (other than accounts that are exempted), which rules became effective on May 11, 2018. 

In addition to complying with the BSA, the Bank is subject to the Patriot Act. The Patriot Act is designed to deny terrorists and criminals the ability to obtain access to the United States&#8217; financial system and has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers, and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act mandates that financial service companies implement additional policies and procedures and take heightened measures designed to address any or all of the following matters: customer identification programs, money laundering, terrorist financing, identifying and reporting suspicious activities and currency transactions, currency crimes, and cooperation between financial institutions and law enforcement authorities. 

On December 3, 2019, three federal banking agencies and FinCEN issued a joint statement clarifying the compliance procedures and reporting requirements that banks must file for customers engaged in the growth or cultivation of hemp, including a clear statement that banks need not file a SAR on customers engaged in the growth or cultivation of hemp in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. This statement does not apply to cannabis-related business; thus, the statement only pertains to customers who are lawfully growing or cultivating hemp and are not otherwise engaged in unlawful or suspicious activity. 

Further, on January 1, 2021, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act, which enacted the most significant overhaul of the BSA and related AML laws since the Patriot Act. Notable amendments include (1) significant changes to the collection of beneficial ownership information and the establishment of a beneficial ownership registry, which requires corporate entities (generally, any corporation, LLC, or other similar entity with 20 or fewer employees and annual gross income of $5 million or less) to report beneficial ownership information to FinCEN (which will be maintained by FinCEN and made available upon request to financial institutions); (2) enhanced whistleblower provisions, which provide that one or more whistleblowers who voluntarily provide original information leading to the successful enforcement of violations of the AML laws in any judicial or administrative action brought by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Attorney General resulting in monetary sanctions exceeding $1 million (including disgorgement and interest but excluding forfeiture, restitution, or 

compensation to victims) will receive not more than 30 percent of the monetary sanctions collected and will receive increased protections; (3) increased penalties for violations of the BSA; (4) improvements to existing information sharing provisions that permit financial institutions to share information relating to SARs with foreign branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates (except those located in China, Russia, or certain other jurisdictions) for the purpose of combating illicit finance risks; and (5) expanded duties and powers of FinCEN. Many of the amendments require the Department of Treasury and FinCEN to promulgate rules. On December 8, 2021, FinCEN issued proposing regulations that would implement the amendments with respect to beneficial ownership. 

Interstate Branching 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, national and state-chartered banks may open an initial branch in a state other than its home state (e.g., a host state) by establishing a de novo branch at any location in such host state at which a bank chartered in such host state could establish a branch. Applications to establish such branches must still be filed with the appropriate primary federal regulator. 

Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits IDIs and their holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prohibits them from owning equity interests in excess of three percent of Tier 1 Capital in private equity and hedge funds (known as the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221;). On December 10, 2013, five U.S. financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the OCC, adopted regulations implementing the Volcker Rule. Those regulations prohibit banking entities from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for their own accounts, and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds, which are referred to as &#8220;covered funds.&#8221; The regulations also require each regulated entity to establish an internal compliance program that is consistent with the extent to which it engages in activities covered by the Volcker Rule. Historically, this meant that the largest banking entities ( i.e ., those with $50 billion or more in assets) had higher reporting requirements, but in November 2019, five federal banking agencies issued a final rule revising certain aspects of the Volcker Rule. The final rule simplifies and streamlines compliance requirements for firms that do not have significant trading activities and enhances requirements for firms that do. Under the rule, compliance requirements are based on the amount of assets and liabilities that a bank trades. Firms with significant trading activities (i.e. , those with $20 billion or more in trading assets and liabilities) have heightened compliance obligations. 

The rule became effective on January 1, 2020, and banking entities were required to comply as of January 1, 2021. Although we benefit from significantly reduced compliance obligations due to the level of our trading assets being below the $20 billion threshold, we remain subject to the modified rules and requirements related to covered funds. On June 25, 2020, the five U.S. financial regulators with responsibility for implementing the Volcker Rule issued a final rule that modifies the Volcker Rule's prohibition on banking entities' investing in or sponsoring "covered funds." The final rule (1) streamlines the covered funds portion of the rule; (2) addresses the extraterritorial treatment of certain foreign funds; and (3) permits banking entities to offer financial services and engage in other activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. 

Incentive Compensation Policies and Restrictions 

In July 2010, the federal banking agencies issued guidance on sound incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the agencies (thereby including both the Parent Company and the Bank). Pursuant to the guidance, to be consistent with safety and soundness principles, a banking organization&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should: (1) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward; (2) be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance including active and effective oversight by the banking organization&#8217;s board of directors. Monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization and its use of incentive compensation. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines for specified regulated entities, such as us, having at least $1 billion in total assets, to prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The agencies have not yet finalized these rules; however, on October 14, 2021, the SEC signaled a renewed interest in this rulemaking initiative by re-opening the comment period on a proposed rule issued originally in 2015 regarding "clawbacks" of incentive-based executive compensation. 

The Federal Reserve will review, as part of its standard, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Corporation, that are not &#8220;large, complex banking organizations.&#8221; These 

reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators&#8217; policies on executive compensation may continue to evolve in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the Corporation&#8217;s ability to hire, retain and motivate its key employees. 

Consumer Financial Services Regulations 

Federal and applicable state banking laws also require us to take steps to protect consumers. Bank regulatory agencies are increasingly focusing attention on compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. These laws include disclosures regarding truth in lending, truth in savings, and funds availability. 

To promote fairness and transparency for mortgages, credit cards, and other consumer financial products and services, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB. This agency is responsible for interpreting and enforcing federal consumer financial laws, as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act, that, among other things, govern the provision of deposit accounts along with mortgage origination and servicing. Some federal consumer financial laws enforced by the CFPB include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, TILA, the Truth in Savings Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, RESPA, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The CFPB is also authorized to prevent any institution under its authority from engaging in an unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice in connection with consumer financial products and services. 

Under TILA as implemented by Regulation Z, mortgage lenders are required to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers&#8217; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (1) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (2) current employment status; (3) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (4) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (5) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (6) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (7) the monthly DTI ratio or residual income; and (8) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate QMs, which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ATR requirements. In general, a QM is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a QM the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. Further, on December 10, 2020, the CFPB issued two final rules related to QM loans. The first rule replaces the strict 43 percent DTI threshold for QM loans and provides that, in addition to existing requirements, a loan receives a conclusive presumption that the consumer had the ability to repay if the APR does not exceed the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more as of the date the interest rate is set. Further, a loan receives a rebuttable presumption that the consumer had the ability to repay if the APR exceeds the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction by 1.5 percentage points or more but by less than 2.25 percentage points. The second rule creates a new category of "seasoned" QMs for loans that meet certain performance requirements. That rule allows a non-QM loan or a "rebuttable presumption" QM loan to receive a safe harbor from ATR liability at the end of a "seasoning" period of at least 36 months as a "seasoned QM" if it satisfies certain product restrictions, points-and-fees limits, and underwriting requirements, and the loan meets the designated performance and portfolio requirements during the "seasoning period." The mandatory compliance date under the first final rule was July 1, 2021, but subsequently was delayed by the CFPB to October 1, 2022. The second final rule will apply to covered transactions for which institutions receive an application after the compliance date for the first final rule. The Corporation is predominantly an originator of compliant QMs. 

Additionally, the CFPB has the authority to take supervisory and enforcement action against banks and other financial services companies under the agency&#8217;s jurisdiction that fail to comply with federal consumer financial laws. As an IDI with total assets of more than $10 billion, the Bank is subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervisory and enforcement authorities. The Dodd-Frank Act also permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and state attorneys general to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the CFPB. As a result of these aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Bank operates in a stringent consumer compliance environment. Therefore, the Bank is likely to incur additional costs related to consumer protection compliance, including but not limited to potential costs associated with CFPB examinations, regulatory and enforcement actions and consumer-oriented litigation, which is likely to increase as a result of the consumer protection provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB has been active in bringing enforcement actions against banks and other financial institutions to enforce consumer financial laws. The federal financial regulatory agencies, including the OCC and states attorneys general, also have become increasingly active 

in this area with respect to institutions over which they have jurisdiction. We have incurred and may in the future incur additional costs in complying with these requirements. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has backup enforcement authority over a depository institution holding company, such as the Parent Company, if the conduct or threatened conduct of such holding company poses a risk to the DIF, although such authority may not be used if the holding company is generally in sound condition and does not pose a foreseeable and material risk to the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on the Corporation&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. See the Risk Factors section for a more extensive discussion of this topic. 

Climate-Related Risk Management and Regulation 

In recent years the federal banking agencies have increased their focus on climate-related risks impacting the operations of banks, the communities they serve and the broader financial system. Accordingly, the agencies have begun to enhance their supervisory expectations regarding the climate risk management practices of larger banking organizations, including by encouraging such banks to: ensure that management of climate-related risk exposures has been incorporated into existing governance structures; evaluate the potential impact of climate-related risks on the bank&#8217;s financial condition, operations and business objectives as part of its strategic planning process; account for the effects of climate change in stress testing scenarios and systemic risk assessments; revise expectations for credit portfolio concentrations based on climate-related factors; consider investments in climate-related initiatives and lending to communities disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change; evaluate the impact of climate change on the bank&#8217;s borrowers and consider possible changes to underwriting criteria to account for climate-related risks to mortgaged properties; incorporate climate-related financial risk into the bank&#8217;s internal reporting, monitoring and escalation processes; and prepare for the transition risks to the bank associated with the adjustment to a low-carbon economy and related changes in laws, regulations, governmental policies, technology, and consumer behavior and expectations. 

On October 21, 2021, the Financial Stability Oversight Council published a report identifying climate-related financial risks as an &#8220;emerging threat&#8221; to financial stability. On December 16, 2021, the OCC issued proposed principles for climate-related financial risk management for national banks with more than $100 billion in total assets. Although these risk management principles, if adopted as proposed, would not apply to the Bank directly based upon our current size, the OCC has indicated that all banks, regardless of their size, may have material exposures to climate-related financial and other risks that require prudent management. The federal banking agencies, either independently or on an interagency basis, are expected to adopt a more formal climate risk management framework for larger banking organizations in the coming months. As climate-related supervisory guidance is formalized, and relevant risk areas and corresponding control expectations are further refined, we may be required to expend significant capital and incur compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs in order to conform to such requirements. 

In addition, states are considering taking similar actions on climate-related financial risks, including certain states in which we operate. For example, in November 2021 a group of lawmakers in the Wisconsin legislature introduced a series of 22 bills addressing, through a mix of funding and legal requirements, enhanced energy efficiency standards, sustainable farming practices, the promotion of clean energy jobs and renewable energy sources. The Minnesota legislature has enacted more targeted legislation addressing clean energy job training and energy efficient public transportation. State-level legislative initiatives such as these may require us to expend capital to conform to any requirements that apply to us. 

During 2021, the Corporation established an Environmental Sustainability Risk Policy and Environmental Sustainability Statement focused on environmental risk management; climate change, carbon emissions and natural resources; and environmental and social lending which will serve as the foundation to Associated's Environmental Sustainability Risk Management System (EMS), a system for supporting the Environmental Sustainability Risk Policy and environmental sustainability risk reporting. The EMS is intended to ensure management of environmental and climate risk in a comprehensive, systematic, planned and documented manner, and to ensure all policy practices are integrated into the Corporation's Enterprise Risk Management program and align with business objectives. Reporting metrics are intended to align with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Framework. The Corporation joined the TCFD and Value Reporting Foundation (SASB) in 2021. Oversight for climate-related risks includes Board-level, senior management and committee oversight. 

The Corporation&#8217;s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the corporate ESG strategies and risks of Associated, including risks and opportunities related to environmental sustainability. In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Board has delegated responsibilities to the following Board-level committees: 

&#8226; The Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) has oversight responsibility for the company&#8217;s ESG Framework and ESG Disclosures. 

&#8226; The Enterprise Risk Committee of the Board of Directors (ERC) is the approval authority for enterprise risk-related oversight, such as risk-related policies and the Risk Appetite Statement. With regard to environmental 

sustainability, this includes Environmental Risk Management; Climate Change, Carbon Emissions and Natural Resources; and Environmental and Social Lending. 

The CGSRC has appointed senior management responsibility to the Environmental, Social and Governance Committee (ESGC), an executive level committee chaired by the Corporation&#8217;s General Counsel. Additional committee members include the President and Chief Executive Officer; Head of Consumer and Business Banking; Chief Human Resources Officer; Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; Director of Community Accountability; and Director of Enterprise Risk Management and Corporate Risk Strategy. 

The ERC has delegated to senior management responsibility for managing and maintaining enterprise risks through approved policies and within the risk appetite. The Corporation senior management carries out this mandate through the Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC). The Chief Risk Officer oversees all aspects of environmental risk. As such, this role provides indirect strategic guidance into the Environmental Sustainability Risk Policy and gives second level approval for all policy components. The Chief Credit Officer oversees lending aspects of environmental risk. 

To help identify, implement and effectuate priorities for the Corporation&#8217;s environmental initiatives, the Corporation also established an Environmental Sustainability Council. The Council is led by the Head of Consumer and Business Banking and includes representatives from our Community Accountability, Corporate Communications, Corporate Risk, Facilities and Real Estate, Marketing, Operations and Technology, Purchasing, Retail Bank, and Wholesale Bank teams. 

Other Banking Regulations 

The Bank is also subject to a variety of other regulations with respect to the operation of its businesses, including but not limited to the Dodd-Frank Act, which among other restrictions placed limitations on the interchange fees charged for debit card transactions, TILA, Truth in Savings Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Expedited Funds Availability (Regulation CC), Reserve Requirements (Regulation D), Insider Transactions (Regulation O), Privacy of Consumer Information (Regulation P), Margin Stock Loans (Regulation U), Right To Financial Privacy Act, Flood Disaster Protection Act, Homeowners Protection Act, Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, RESPA, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Children&#8217;s Online Privacy Protection Act, and the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act. Further, in January 2021, the OCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend current rules related to national banks' ownership of real property. The proposal would provide a set of general standards, including an occupancy test and excess capacity standards, that the OCC will use to determine whether the acquisition and holding of real estate is necessary for the transaction of an institution's business. The prospects and timing for the adoption of a final rule are uncertain at this time. 

The laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly under review by Congress, the federal regulatory agencies, and the state authorities. These laws and regulations could be changed drastically in the future, which could affect our profitability, our ability to compete effectively, or the composition of the financial services industry in which we compete. 

Government Monetary Policies and Economic Controls 

Our earnings and growth, as well as the earnings and growth of the banking industry, are affected by the credit policies of monetary authorities, including the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit in order to combat recession and curb inflationary pressures. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits, and changes in the Federal Reserve discount rate. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits, and may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve authorities have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to have such an effect in the future. 

In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in money markets, as well as the effect of credit policies by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, it is difficult to predict the impact of possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand, or their effect on our business and earnings or on the financial condition of our various customers. 

Other Regulatory Authorities 

In addition to regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking agencies, the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including those that engage in securities brokerage, dealing and investment advisory activities, are subject to other federal and applicable state securities laws and regulations, and to supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, NYSE, DOL and others. 

Separately, in June 2019, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted Regulation Best Interest, which, among other things, establishes a new standard of conduct for a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities to such customer. The new rule requires us to review and possibly modify our compliance activities, which is causing us to incur some additional costs. In addition, state laws that impose a fiduciary duty also may require monitoring, as well as require that we undertake additional compliance measures. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC&#8217;s web site at www.sec.gov . 

Our principal internet address is www.associatedbank.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, shareholders may request a copy of any of our filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing at Associated Banc-Corp, Attn: Investor Relations, 433 Main Street, Green Bay, WI 54301 or e-mailing us at investor.relations@associatedbank.com. 

##TABLE_START 