 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction therewith 

Macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges and uncertainties affecting the stability of regions and countries around the globe, specifically including Russia and Ukraine, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience negative impacts to our businesses and results of operations as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, uncertainties and volatility occurring across the globe. For instance, the recent action of Russian military forces in Ukraine has created instability in that region and has escalated tensions between Russia and the United States and across Europe. In response to the actions taken by Russia, the United States has imposed, and is likely to continue to impose, significant financial and economic sanctions and export controls against certain Russian organizations and individuals, with similar actions being either implemented or planned by the European Union and the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions. 

The actions taken by Russia in Ukraine, and any further measures that may be taken by the United States or its allies in response to such actions, could have negative impacts on global and regional financial markets and economic conditions. The United States has banned Russian imports of oil, natural gas and coal and other jurisdictions have taken, or are contemplating taking, similar actions. These dynamics are placing additional upward pressure on fuel and energy prices, which already were rising based on factors including a return to pre-pandemic levels of consumption and insufficient global production to match increasing demand. In addition, Ukraine&#8217;s ability to function as a significant supplier of commodities&#8212;including wheat, neon and platinum&#8212;used in the production of key energy, food and industrial outputs has been limited by Russia&#8217;s actions and is causing global prices in certain markets to increase. The Russia-Ukraine conflict already has been more protracted than was initially expected and, to the extent that the conflict continues for an extended period of time and/or expands into surrounding regions, global financial conditions could worsen and/or become more volatile. These developments are combining to amplify existing economic uncertainty and cause adjustments to longer-term inflation expectations which, in turn, may cause upward pressure on interest rates and adversely affect economic conditions. For additional information, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;We are subject to interest rate risk, which recently has increased due to domestic and global economic instability and geopolitical developments.&#8221; 

Further, the Russia-Ukraine conflict may impact our risk exposure in other areas, most notably our cybersecurity risk. On March 21, 2022, the Biden Administration issued a warning regarding the potential for Russia to engage in malicious cyber activities, specifically including attacks on critical infrastructure such as the financial sector, in response to the international economic sanctions that have been imposed against the Russian government and organizations and individuals within Russia. Institutions that provide critical services, including all members of the financial sector such as the Corporation and the Bank, have been encouraged by the Administration and their supervisors to enhance cyber-defense systems and take steps to further secure their data in anticipation of potential malicious cyber activity by the Russian government or other Russian actors. For additional information regarding the cybersecurity risks for the Corporation and the Bank, please refer to the Corporation&#8217;s 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Each of the developments described above, or any combination of them, could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 

We are subject to interest rate risk, which recently has increased due to domestic and global economic instability and geopolitical developments. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including global, domestic and local economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. On March 16, 2022, the FOMC of the Federal Reserve raised the target range for the federal funds rate to 0.25% to 0.50%, which represented the first increase to the target federal funds rate since 2018. The FOMC, with particular attention being given to ongoing supply chain disruptions, rising energy and commodity prices and the global economic impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, has signaled that additional increases may be appropriate if inflation pressures remain elevated or intensify. 

Further increases to prevailing interest rates could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage portfolio and other interest-earning assets. Moreover, additional and aggressive increases to the target range for the federal funds rate, combined with ongoing geopolitical instability, raise the risk of economic recession. Any such downturn, especially domestically and in the regions in which we operate, may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels, loan demand and results of operations. 

The CFPB has taken steps to enhance the supervision of institutions within its jurisdiction, including the Corporation and the Bank, and has adopted strict enforcement policies in respect of the fair lending laws and the prohibition against unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB was directed under the Dodd-Frank Act to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. 

Under the current Administration and leadership of the agency, the CFPB has pursued a more aggressive enforcement policy with respect to a range of regulatory compliance matters. CFPB enforcement actions may serve as precedent for how the CFPB interprets and enforces consumer protection laws, including UDAAPs, with respect to all supervised institutions, which may result in the imposition of higher standards of compliance with such laws. Of note, CFPB Director Rohit Chopra has indicated that the CFPB will prioritize enforcement of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (&#8220;ECOA&#8221;), as implemented by the CFPB&#8217;s Regulation B, which prohibits discrimination in any aspect of a credit transaction. To that end, on March 16, 2022, the CFPB revised its Supervision and Examination Manual to explicitly incorporate anti-discrimination considerations in respect of evaluations of potential UDAAPs. The CFPB&#8217;s action represents not only a continuation of the agency&#8217;s commitment to a more aggressive enforcement approach, but also a shift in supervision and examination policy and procedure that may result in the commencement of enforcement actions against financial institutions involving a broader range of cited violations of the federal consumer financial laws and expanded allegations of UDAAPs. 

We have not yet determined whether this shift in enforcement policy at the CFPB will necessitate any changes to our business or result in additional compliance risk. 

