 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factors supplement the Risk Factors described in the Corporation&#8217;s 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022, and should be read in conjunction therewith. 

Changes and instability in economic conditions, geopolitical matters and financial markets, including a contraction of economic activity, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon global, domestic and local economic and political conditions, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as changes in interest rates, money supply, levels of employment and other factors beyond our control may have a negative impact on economic activity. Any contraction of economic activity, including an economic recession, may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. In particular, interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including global, domestic and local economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, specifically, the Federal Reserve. Since March of 2022, the FOMC of the Federal Reserve has raised the target range for the federal funds rate on three separate occasions, resulting in an increase in the target range from 0.00% - 0.25% that prevailed in early March of 2022 to 1.50% - 1.75% at the June 2022 FOMC meeting. At the July 2022 FOMC meeting, the target rate was increased again to 2.25% - 2.50%. The FOMC&#8212;citing specifically the hardships caused by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, continued global supply chain disruptions and imbalances, and increased inflationary pressure&#8212;has signaled that it anticipates additional increases in the target range will be appropriate. Increases to prevailing interest rates could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage portfolio and other interest-earning assets. 

The tightening of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s monetary policies, including repeated and aggressive increases in target range for the federal funds rate as noted above as well as the conclusion of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s tapering of asset purchases, together with ongoing economic and geopolitical instability, increases the risk of an economic recession. Although forecasts have varied, many economists are projecting that U.S. economic growth will slow and inflation will remain elevated in the coming quarters, potentially resulting in a contraction of U.S. gross domestic output by 2023 if not earlier. Any such downturn, especially domestically and in the regions in which we operate, may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels, loan demand and results of operations. 

As a result of the economic and geopolitical factors discussed above, financial institutions also face heightened credit risk, among other forms of risk. Of note, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral, which, in turn, can adversely affect the value of our loan and investment portfolios. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency recently reported that although residential real estate values have continued to rise in many markets, the rate of appreciation has slowed in recent quarters. Adverse economic developments, specifically including inflation-related impacts, may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans or to finance future home purchases. Moreover, while CRE values have stabilized as demand has returned to pre-pandemic levels in several markets, the outlook for CRE remains dependent on the broader economic environment and, specifically, how major subsectors respond to a rising interest rate environment and higher prices for commodities, goods and services. In each case, credit performance over the medium- and long-term is susceptible to economic and market forces and therefore forecasts remain uncertain. Instability and uncertainty in the commercial and residential real estate markets, as well as in the broader commercial and retail credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

