FIRST QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
General Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations,institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments:Corporate & Institutional Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Management clientsprimarily by the Asset Management business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our, ” “its,” or similar termsmean the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report. Investors also should read thesection entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Overview During the first quarter of 2020, the COVID-19 global pandemic presented health and economic challenges on an unprecedented scale. During this time, NorthernTrust continued to look after the health and safety of its employees, serve its clients, and support its communities. The global business resiliency plan wasimplemented, with the vast majority of staff working remotely and continuing to maintain Northern Trust’s high level of service and execution. The impacts ofrecent conditions are not fully reflected in the current quarter due to the quarter-lag and month-lag nature of Northern Trust’s trust, investment and other servicingfees and the timing of recent declines in short-term interest rates. Accordingly, revenue in future periods is expected to be impacted further by recent market events.In addition, our provision for credit losses in the future could be impacted to the extent that actual market and economic conditions deteriorate faster or greater thanour forecasts. Key income statement drivers for the first quarter are highlighted below. Net income per diluted common share increased in the current quarter to $1.55 from $1.48 in the first quarter of 2019. Net income increased to $360.6 million inthe current quarter as compared to $347.1 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 13.4% in the current quarter and14.0% in the prior-year quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 1.17% in the current quarter as compared to 1.18% in the prior-year quarter.Revenue increased $106.8 million, or 7%, from $1.48 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.59 billion in the current quarter. Noninterest income increased $120.7 million, or 11%, from $1.06 billion in the prior-year quarter to $1.18 billion in the current quarter, primarily reflecting highertrust, investment and other servicing fees, foreign exchange trading income, security commissions and trading income and other operating income.Net interest income decreased $13.9 million, or 3%, to $408.1 million in the current quarter as compared to $422.0 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily dueto a lower net interest margin. The Corporation adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on FinancialInstruments” (ASU 2016-13) on January 1, 2020, which significantly changes the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediaterecognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the Corporation recordeda $13.7 million increase in the allowance for credit losses with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings $10.1 million, net ofincome taxes. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financialstatements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The provision for credit losses was a provision of $61.0 million in the currentquarter, as compared to no provision in the prior-year quarter. The current quarter provision was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on acollective basis driven by current and projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts,with the largest increase in the commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES For a description of Northern Trust’s significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. The use of estimates and assumptions isrequired in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and actual results could differ from those estimates. The SEC has issued guidancerelating to the disclosure of critical accounting estimates. Critical accounting estimates are those that require management to make subjective or complex judgmentsabout the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Changes that may be required in the underlying assumptions orestimates in these areas could have a material impact on Northern Trust’s future financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES (continued) For Northern Trust, accounting estimates that are viewed as critical are those relating to the allowance for credit losses and pension plan accounting. Managementhas discussed the development and selection of each critical accounting estimate with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee). For adescription of Northern Trust’s estimate related to pension plan accounting, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in the Annual Report on Form 10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2019. Allowance for Credit Losses The Corporation adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on FinancialInstruments” (ASU 2016-13) on January 1, 2020, which significantly changes the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediaterecognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the Corporation recordeda $13.7 million increase in the allowance for credit losses with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings$10.1 million, net ofincome taxes. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financialstatements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The allowance for credit losses — which represents management’s estimate of lifetime expected credit losses related to various portfolios subject to credit risk, offbalance-sheet credit exposure, and specific borrower relationships — is determined by management through a disciplined credit review process. Northern Trustmeasures expected credit losses of financial assets with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. A financial asset is measured individually if it does notshare similar risk characteristics with other financial assets and the related allowance is determined through an individual evaluation. Management’s estimates utilized in establishing an appropriate level of allowance for credit losses are not dependent on any single assumption. In determining anappropriate allowance level, management evaluates numerous variables, many of which are interrelated or dependent on other assumptions and estimates, and takesinto consideration past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Due to the inherent imprecision in accounting estimates, other estimatesor assumptions could reasonably have been used in 2020 and changes in estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. The allowance for credit losses consists of the following components: Evaluated on an Individual Level: The allowance is determined through an individual evaluation of financial assets considered impaired that is based onexpected future cash flows, the value of collateral, and other factors that may impact the borrower’s ability to pay. For impaired loans for which the amount ofallowance, if any, is determined based on the value of the underlying real estate collateral, third-party appraisals are typically obtained and utilized by management.These appraisals are generally less than twelve months old and are subject to adjustments to reflect management’s judgment as to the realizable value of thecollateral. Evaluated on a Collective Level: Expected credit losses are measured on a collective basis as long as the financial assets included in the respective pool sharesimilar risk characteristics. If financial assets are deemed to not share similar risk characteristics, an individual assessment is warranted. The allowance estimation methodology for the collective assessment is primarily based on internal loss data specific to the Northern Trust financial asset portfoliofrom a historical observation period that includes both expansionary and recessionary periods. The estimation methodology and the related qualitative adjustmentframework segregate the loan and lease portfolio into segments based on loan and obligor-specific factors, including loan type, borrower type, collateral type, loansize, and borrower credit quality. For each segment, the probability of default and loss given default are derived for each remaining quarter of the loan’s contractuallife from models developed using historical data on macroeconomic factors and loans with similar factors. For quarters outside of the approved projection period,historical average loss rates for loans by segment are used. The exposure at default for every quarter is based on contractual balances as of each quarter-end, withadjustments made for potential draw-downs of revolving lines. Northern Trust utilizes a quantitative probability of default / loss given default approach for the calculation of its credit allowance on a collective basis. For each ofthe different parameters, specific credit models for the individual loan segments were developed. For each segment, the probability of defaultand the loss givendefault are applied to the exposure at default for each projected quarter to determine the quantitative component of the allowance. The quantitative allowance isthen reviewed within the qualitative adjustment framework, through which management applies judgment by assessing internal risk factors, potential limitations inthe quantitative methodology, and environmental factors that are not fully contemplated in the forecast to compute an adjustment to the quantitative allowance foreach segment of the loan portfolio. 23 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES (continued) Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) ASU 2016-13 requires the use of projected macroeconomic factors. Northern Trust’s current projection period is eight quarters, with a four-quarter straight-linereversion period to historical average loss rates. The Corporation uses multiple forecasts which are approved by Northern Trust’s Macroeconomic Scenario DesignCommittee (MSDC). The baseline forecast aligns with the Corporation’s latest thinking on macroeconomic projections for the next eight quarters. The forecasts areweighted at each evaluation period and are management’s best estimate of future economic projections at that time. The allowance estimate is sensitive to changes in portfolio composition and quality, and macroeconomic forecasts. Increases in the amount of borrowing andmaterial downgrades to the quality of the lending portfolio will increase the reserve, all else equal. Similarly, deteriorating projections for macroeconomicconditions will increase the reserve. Macroeconomic factors that are particularly correlated to Northern Trust’s loan and lease portfolio are equity market values,market volatility, corporate profits, house and commercial real estate price indices, unemployment, and disposable income. The investment security and otherfinancial assets exposure portfolios are less sensitive to macroeconomic factors in terms of overall reserve impact due to factors such as high credit quality, shortduration, and low historical losses. The results of the credit reserve estimation methodology are reviewed quarterly by Northern Trust’s Credit Loss Reserve Committee, which receives input fromCredit Risk Management, Treasury, Corporate Finance, the Economic Research group, and each of Northern Trust’s business units. The Credit Loss ReserveCommittee determines the probability weights applied to each forecast approved by MSDC, and also reviews and approves qualitative adjustments to the collectiveallowance in line with Northern Trust’s qualitative adjustment framework. In determining the appropriate adjustment, management applies judgment by assessinginternal risk factors, potential limitations in the quantitative methodology and environmental factors that are not contemplated in the quantitative methodology,including potential changes to the portfolio or economic events from the time of the last model execution to the end of the quarter. The quarterly analysis of the individual and collective allowance components and the control process maintained by Credit Risk Management and the lending staffare the principal methods relied upon by management for the timely identification of, and adjustment for, changes in estimated credit loss levels. In addition toNorthern Trust’s own experience, management also considers regulatory guidance. Control processes and analyses employed to determine an appropriate level ofallowance for credit losses are reviewed on at least an annual basis and modified as considered appropriate. The provision for credit losses, which is charged to income, is the amount necessary to adjust the allowance for credit losses to the level deemed to be appropriatethrough the above process. Actual losses may vary from current estimates and the amount of the provision for credit losses may be either greater than or less thanactual net charge-offs. Management believes that the allowance for credit losses adequately addresses these uncertainties and has been established at an appropriatelevel. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS In January 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-01, “Investments—Equity Securities(Topic 321), Investments—Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323), and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Clarifying the Interactions between Topic321, Topic 323, and Topic 815” (ASU 2020-01). ASU 2020-01 addresses two accounting issues: (1) application of the measurement alternative under Topic 321 incorrelation with the transition into and out of the equity method under Topic 323 and (2) the measurement of certain forward contracts and purchased options toacquire equity securities. ASU 2020-01 clarifies that an entity applying the measurement alternative under Topic 321 that must transition to the equity methodunder Topic 323 because of an observable transaction will remeasure its investment immediately before transition, whereas an entity applying the equity methodunder Topic 323 that must transition to Topic 321 because of an observable transaction will remeasure its investment immediately after transition. ASU 2020-01also clarifies that certain forward contracts or purchased call options to acquire equity securities generally will be measured using the fair value principles of Topic321 before settlement or exercise. ASU 2020-01 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020, although early adoption ispermitted. ASU 2020-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on FinancialReporting” (ASU 2020-04). The global transition toward alternative reference rates and away from referencing the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) andother interbank offered rates (Reference Rate Reform) is expected to have a significant impact on the volume of contract modifications, hedge accounting, andother transactions that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of Reference Rate Reform. ASU 2020-04 providestemporary 24 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS (continued) optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contract modifications, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by Reference Rate Reformif certain criteria are met. The main provisions of ASU 2020-04 provide the following optional expedients: (1) simplification of the accounting evaluations undercurrent GAAP for contract modifications, including loan, debt, lease and other contracts with potential embedded derivatives, if qualifying criteria are met (2)preservation of hedging relationships without dedesignation upon certain changes to the critical terms of an existing hedging relationship due to Reference RateReform and other optional hedge accounting relief provisions and (3) a one-time election to sell or transfer, or both sell and transfer, debt securities classified asheld to maturity that reference a rate affected by Reference Rate Reform and are classified as held to maturity before January 1, 2020. ASU 2020-04 can be adopted beginning as of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2022 and may be applied as of the beginning of the interim period thatincludes March 12, 2020 or any date thereafter. The optional expedients in ASU 2020-04 for contract modifications and hedging relationships are appliedprospectively, while the one-time election to sell or transfer, or both sell and transfer debt securities classified as held to maturity may be made at any time afterMarch 12, 2020. The optional expedients and exceptions provided by ASU 2020-04 do not apply to contract modifications made and hedging relationships enteredinto or evaluated after December 31, 2022, except for hedging relationships existing as of December 31, 2022 that an entity has elected certain optional expedientsfor and that are retained through the end of the hedging relationship. Northern Trust has not adopted ASU 2020-04 as of March 31, 2020.ASU 2020-04 is notexpected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk and trading risk. Interest rate risk is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in net interestincome and the market value of equity. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to cause changesin the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE)sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with along-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a Value-at-Risk(VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read inconjunction with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rateswaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e.,change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks torates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e.,basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. Theseassumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity givenuncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similarterms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a moreconservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analyticssystem that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgageanalytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availabilityof historical data and current pricing strategies/or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point upward and 100 basis point downward movements ininterest rates relative to forward rates. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period.The NII sensitivity analysis does not incorporate certain management actions that may be used to mitigate adverse effects of actual interest rate movement. For thatreason and others, the estimated impacts do not reflect the likely actual results but serve as estimates of interest rate risk. NII sensitivity is not comparable to actualresults disclosed elsewhere or directly predictive of future values of other measures provided. MVE Sensitivity — MVE is defined as the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities, net of the value of financial derivatives that are used tomanage the interest rate risk of balance sheet items. The potential effect of interest rate changes on MVE is derived from the impact of such changes on projectedfuture cash flows and the present value of these cash flows and is then compared to the established limit. Northern Trust uses current market rates (and the futurerates implied by these market rates) as the base case and measures MVE sensitivity under various rate scenarios. Stress testing of interest rates is performed toinclude such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, andchanges to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). The MVE sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. Theseassumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate MVE sensitivitygiven uncertainty in the assumptions. Many of the assumptions that apply to NII sensitivity also apply to MVE sensitivity simulations, with the following separatekey assumptions incorporated into the MVE simulation: ▪ the present value of nonmaturity deposits are estimated using dynamic decay methodologies or estimated remaining lives, which are based on acombination of Northern Trust’s actual historical runoff patterns and management judgment — some balances are assumed to be core and have longerlives while other balances are assumed to be temporary and have comparatively shorter lives; ▪ the present values of most noninterest-related balances (such as receivables, equipment, and payables) are the same as their book values; and▪ Monte Carlo simulation is used to generate forward interest rate paths. The following table shows the estimated impact on MVE of 100 and 200 basis point shocks up and a 100 basis point shock down from current market impliedforward rates.interest rate risk. MVE sensitivity is not comparable to actual results disclosed elsewhere or directly predictive of future values of other measures provided.Foreign Currency Value-At-Risk (VaR) — Northern Trust measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a VaR model andapplying the historical simulation methodology. This statistical model provides estimates, based on a variety of high confidence levels, of the potential loss in valuethat might be incurred if an adverse shift in non-U.S. currency exchange rates were to occur over a small number of days. The model incorporates foreign currencyand interest rate volatilities and correlations in price movements among the currencies. VaR is computed for each trading desk and for the global portfolio.Northern Trust monitors several variations of the global foreign exchange (GFX) VaR measures to meet specific regulatory and internal management needs.Variations include different methodologies (historical simulation, Monte Carlo simulation and Taylor approximation), horizons of one day and ten days, confidencelevels of 95% and 99%, subcomponent VaRs using only foreign exchange (FX) drivers and only interest rate (IR) drivers, and look-back periods of one year, twoyears, and four years. Those alternative measures provide management an array of corroborating metrics and alternative perspectives on Northern Trust’s marketrisks. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, Northern Trust experienced no days with an actual trading loss in excess of the daily value-at-risk estimate.The table below presents the levels of total regulatory VaR and its subcomponents for GFX in the periods indicated below, based on the historical simulationmethodology, a 99% confidence level, a one-day horizon and equally-weighted volatility. The total VaR for GFX is typically less than the sum of its twosubcomponents due to diversification benefits derived from the two subcomponents.The following table presents a reconciliation of interest income, net interest income, net interest margin, and total revenue prepared in accordance with GAAP tosuch measures on an FTE basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized net interest income by averageinterest-earning assets. Management believes this presentation provides a clearer indication of these financial measures for comparative purposes. When adjusted toan FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Forward Looking Statements
This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,”“estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,”and “could.” Forward-looking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results and outlook;capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; future pensionplan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; and expectationsregarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectations of futureevents or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based on assumptions aboutmany important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession or depression in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a number offactors, including, for example, the ongoing COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic and governmental and societal responses thereto;• volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets in general,or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respect to whichNorthern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative toother currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arisingfrom all such changes and volatility; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, particularly asset-backed securities, the liquidity and pricing of whichmay be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cyber-security, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuationof securities, fraud, systems performance or defects, systems interruptions, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust’s success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor;• changes in the method pursuant to which the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other interest rate benchmarks are determined;• the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust;• increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatoryemphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital;• changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect Northern Trustor its clients; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist events and war,and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” and any negative effects thereof on global economicconditions, global financial markets, and our business and results of operations; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability todeploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements;• Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; 29 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products;• Northern Trust’s success in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise tosupport increasingly complex products and services; • Northern Trust’s success in implementing its expense management initiatives; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns andpayouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, includingcredit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory process, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’s recordedliability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary;• the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and• other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, including those factorsdescribed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of thedate of that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes noobligation to update its forward-looking statements.