Items 2. and 3. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosuresabout Market Risk SECOND QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations,institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments:Corporate & Institutional Services (C&IS) and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to C&IS and Wealth Managementclients primarily by the Asset Management business. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our, ” “its,” or similarterms mean the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report. Investors also should read thesection entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events The COVID-19 global pandemic continued to present health and economic challenges on an unprecedented scale during the second quarter of 2020. During thistime, Northern Trust continued to focus on the health and well-being of its workforce, meet its clients’ needs and support its communities. Northern Trustestablished a COVID Executive Committee composed of senior leadership across various functions, under whose oversight the global business resiliency pandemicplan was implemented during the first quarter of 2020. Although planning is underway to return to the office when conditions permit, the vast majority of staff isexpected to continue to work from home for some time to come. Workforce As many governments have begun implementing plans to reopen their respective jurisdictions, Northern Trust has begun its return-to-office (RTO) phase under theoversight of the COVID Executive Committee. Plans for RTO are being developed on a location-by-location basis based on business unit needs. Northern Trust isconsidering site readiness, transportation options, technology capabilities, and workforce alignment. Northern Trust plans for the return of a small portion (lessthan 20 percent) of each office’s population in the initial RTO phase to allow for optimal social distancing. To ensure the health and well-being of Northern Trust’sworkforce, clients and visitors, several new social distancing elements and other protective measures, such as temperature screenings, where allowable by law,distribution of personal protective equipment, and workforce self-certification, have been implemented. Several offices began initiating a return of the workforce inJuly 2020. Client Service Northern Trust has offered assistance to its clients affected by the COVID-19 pandemic by lending under a government lending program and providing paymentdeferrals. The Corporation continues to assess developments in government actions meant to support the economy, as further discussed below.U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program During the second quarter of 2020, Northern Trust became a lender under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), which is administered by the U.S. SmallBusiness Administration (SBA), an agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which works with financial institutions in providing loans to small businesses.The PPP, which is meant to aid small businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic, was created under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security(CARES) Act, which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. In the second quarter of 2020, the Paycheck Protection Program Flexibility Act was enacted toprovide updates to the PPP. As of June 30, 2020, Northern Trust had funded loans totaling $213.8 million under the PPP. The Corporation accounts for PPP loans as loan receivables andamounts are disclosed in Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).The original timeframe for PPP lending expired on June 30, 2020, but Congress acted on June 30, 2020 to provide a 5-week PPP extension for lending to allowsmall businesses additional time to apply for the remaining PPP funds allocated by Congress in connection with the CARES Act. Northern Trust expects tocontinue lending under the PPP through the new August deadline. 3 Table of Contents SECOND QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) COVID-19 Pandemic and Recent Events (continued) Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief Due to the economic environment arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been two forms of relief provided to lenders exempting certain loanmodifications which would otherwise be classified as TDRs from such classification. The first of these forms of relief is provided by certain interagency guidancefrom various banking regulators, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National CreditUnion Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Interagency Guidance). The other isprovided under section 4013 of the CARES Act. Northern Trust has elected to apply each of these forms of relief, when applicable, in providing borrowers withqualifying loan modifications, including payment deferrals, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For further information on TDRs, please refer to Note 6 —Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Community Support COVID-19 Relief Support On April 8, 2020, Northern Trust announced that it was committing $3 million in COVID-19 relief support to numerous organizations serving those most affectedby the pandemic. Grantees include the Solidarity Response Fund for the World Health Organization, United Way Worldwide, the Global FoodBanking Network,Feeding America, Meals on Wheels, and other COVID-19 relief funds sponsored by the city of Chicago and state of Illinois. Small Business Support On May 11, 2020, Northern Trust announced it was providing $100 million in low-cost funding to assist Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs),which are instrumental in providing loans to small businesses and non-profit organizations under the PPP. The funding helps meet urgent demand among smallbusinesses and non-profit groups by providing flexible terms and low rates. CDFIs provide loans, investments, financial services and technical assistance tounderserved populations and communities. This funding to CDFIs, which is reported in Debt Securities Held to Maturity on the consolidated balance sheets, isseparate and distinct from the $213.8 million in PPP funds that the Corporation has lent to its own small business clients. New Philanthropic Strategy On June 15, 2020, Northern Trust announced that it has pledged $20 million over the next 5 years with the goal of reducing the economic opportunity gap. Theopportunity gap encompasses obstacles created by race, ethnicity, gender, and environmental and socioeconomic status that prohibit individuals from achievingtheir full potential. The Corporation’s goal is to help shrink this gap by providing increased access to essential human needs, which include food, housing, healthcare and education. Additional COVID-19 economic and market-related impacts to the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are discussed throughout this Form10-Q. Overview of Financial Results Net income per diluted common share decreased in the current quarter to $1.46 from $1.75 in the second quarter of 2019. Net income decreased to $313.3 millionin the current quarter as compared to $389.4 million in the prior-year quarter. Annualized return on average common equity was 12.2% in the current quarter and15.9% in the prior-year quarter. The annualized return on average assets was 0.91% in the current quarter as compared to 1.34% in the prior-year quarter.Revenue was relatively unchanged compared to the prior-year quarter, totaling $1.51 billion. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased $6.0 million, or 1%, from $955.5 million in the prior-year quarter to $961.5 million in the current quarter,primarily due to new business, favorable transaction fees, and increased securities lending fees, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable lagged markets.Other noninterest income increased $38.8 million, or 29%, from $133.7 million in the prior-year quarter to $172.5 million in the current quarter, primarilyreflecting higher other operating income, foreign exchange trading income, and security commissions and trading income. Net interest income decreased $45.3 million, or 11%, to $372.1 million in the current quarter as compared to $417.4 million in the prior-year quarter, primarily dueto a lower net interest margin, partially offset by an increase in average earning assets. There was a $66.0 million provision for credit losses in the current quarter, as compared to a credit provision of $6.5 million in the prior-year quarter calculatedunder the previous “incurred loss” model. The current quarter provision was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven bydowngrades in the portfolio and more severe projected 4 Table of Contents SECOND QUARTER CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) Overview of Financial Results (continued) economic conditions, both resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts, with the largest increases in the commercialand institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. The Corporation adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on FinancialInstruments” (ASU 2016-13) on January 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediaterecognition of estimated credit losses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13,please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements(unaudited). Noninterest expense increased $30.7 million, or 3%, to $1.04 billion in the current quarter from $1.01 billion in the prior-year quarter, primarily attributable tohigher equipment and software expense, occupancy expense, other operating expense, and compensation expense, partially offset by lower outside services.The provision for income taxes in the current quarter totaled $89.9 million, representing an effective tax rate of 22.3%. The provision for income taxes in the prioryear quarter totaled $117.5 million, representing an effective tax rate of 23.2%. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, investment and other servicing fees are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions;securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthlyor quarterly basis in arrears. The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided below.


REPORTING SEGMENTS Northern Trust is organized around its two client-focused reporting segments: C&IS and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are providedto C&IS and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other supportfunctions are allocated fully to C&IS and Wealth Management. Reporting segment financial information, presented on an internal management-reporting basis, is determined by accounting systems used to allocate revenue andexpense to each segment, and incorporates processes for allocating assets, liabilities, equity and the applicable interest income and expense utilizing a fundstransfer pricing (FTP) methodology. Under the methodology, assets and liabilities receive a funding charge or credit that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk,and other product characteristics on an instrument level. Revenues, expenses and average assets are allocated to C&IS and Wealth Management, with the exception of non-recurring activities such as certain costsassociated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments not directly attributable to a specific reporting segment.Reporting segment results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made. The results are also subject to refinements in revenue and expenseallocation methodologies, which are typically reflected on a prospective basis. 19 Table of Contents REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) The following table reflects the earnings contributions and average assets of Northern Trust’s reporting segments for the three- and six-month periods endedJune 30, 2020 and 2019. REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Corporate & Institutional Services For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, C&IS net income decreased $48.7 million, or 25%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting lower net interest income,an increase in the provision for credit losses, and higher noninterest expense, partially offset by higher noninterest income. Noninterest income increased $52.0million, or 8%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting higher other noninterest income, trust, investment and other servicing fees, and foreign exchangetrading income. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, C&IS net income decreased $43.6 million, or 12%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting lower net interestincome, an increase in the provision for credit losses, and higher noninterest expense, partially offset by higher noninterest income. Noninterest income increased$115.0 million, or 9%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher trust, investment and other servicing fees, foreign exchange trading income, and othernoninterest income. For an explanation of C&IS trust, investment, and other servicing fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” sections of the MD&A.For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, foreign exchange trading income increased $11.0 million, or 19%, from the prior-year quarter and for the six months endedJune 30, 2020, foreign exchange trading income increased $36.4 million, or 31%, from the prior-year period. The increase in both the three- and six-month periodsended June 30, 2020 was primarily due to higher client volumes and increased market volatility. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, net interest income stated on an FTE basis decreased $64.2 million, or 28%, from the prior-year quarter and decreased $87.7million, or 19%, from the prior-year period for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The decrease for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 primarilyreflected a lower net interest margin driven by declining short-term interest rates, partially offset by higher deposit balances and loan volumes. Average earningassets increased to $95.9 billion in the current quarter from $77.9 billion in the prior-year quarter and increased to $88.8 billion in the six-month period endedJune 30, 2020 from $79.8 billion in the prior-year period. The earning assets and funding sources in C&IS for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020consisted primarily of intercompany assets and of loans and non-U.S. custody-related interest-bearing deposits, respectively. On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted ASU 2016-13. For more information on the adoption, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncementsto the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The C&IS provision for credit losses for the three andsix months ended June 30, 2020, was $28.8 million and $54.5 million, respectively, compared with a credit provision under the previous “incurred loss” model of$2.4 million and $3.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The provision for the three months ended June 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolioand more severe projected economic conditions, both resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts, with the largestincreases in the commercial and institutional portfolio. The provision for the six months ended June 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on acollective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolio and projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market andeconomic impacts on the commercial and institutional portfolio. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, C&IS noninterest expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations forproduct and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased $22.3 million, or 4%, from the prior-year quarter,primarily reflecting higher charges associated with account servicing activities, expense allocations and compensation expense, partially offset by lower outsideservices expense and business promotion expense due to reduced business travel. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, C&IS noninterest expense increased $33.6 million, or 3%, from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting higher expenseallocations, higher charges associated with account servicing activities, compensation expense, and employee benefit expense, partially offset by lower businesspromotion expense due to reduced business travel and outside services expense. 21 Table of Contents REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Wealth Management For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, Wealth Management net income decreased $16.9 million, or 8%, from the prior-year quarter primarily due to an increase inthe provision for credit losses in the current quarter and lower trust, investment and other servicing fees, partially offset by higher net interest income and othernoninterest income. Noninterest income decreased $1.7 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflecting lower trust, investment and other servicing fees,partially offset by higher other noninterest income. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, Wealth Management net income decreased $6.1 million, or 2%, from the prior-year period primarily due to an increase inthe provision for credit losses in the current period, partially offset by higher net interest income, other noninterest income, and trust, investment and otherservicing fees. Noninterest income increased $48.0 million, or 6%, from the prior-year period primarily reflecting higher other noninterest income and trust,investment and other servicing fees. For an explanation of Wealth Management trust, investment, and other servicing fees, please see the “Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees” sections of theMD&A. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, other noninterest income increased $9.3 million, or 30%, from the prior-year quarter, and for the six months ended June 30,2020, other noninterest income increased $26.2 million, or 46%, from the prior-year period. The increase in both the three- and six-month periods ended June 30,2020 primarily resulted from an increase in securities commissions and trading income. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, net interest income stated on an FTE basis increased $18.9 million, or 10%, from the prior-year quarter and increased $28.8million, or 7%, from the prior-year period for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 primarilyreflected higher net interest allocation from Treasury and Other and higher deposit and loan balances, partially offset by lower interest rates. Average earningassets increased $1.5 billion to $29.2 billion in the current quarter from $27.7 billion in the prior-year quarter and increased $769.0 million to $29.1 billion in thesix-month period ended June 30, 2020 from $28.4 billion in the prior-year period. Earning assets and funding sources for the three and six months ended June 30,2020 were primarily comprised of loans and domestic interest-bearing deposits, respectively. On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted ASU 2016-13. For more information on the adoption, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncementsto the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The Wealth Management provision for credit losseswas $37.2 million and $72.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, respectively, and a credit provision under the previous “incurred loss”model of $4.1 million and $3.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. The provision for the three months ended June 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolioand more severe projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related market and economic impacts, primarily impactingthe commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. The provision for the six months ended June 30, 2020 reflected an increase in the reserveevaluated on a collective basis driven by downgrades in the portfolio and projected economic conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic andrelated market and economic impacts, primarily impacting the commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, Wealth Management noninterest expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expenseallocations for product and operating support and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, remained relatively unchanged from the prioryear quarter, primarily reflecting higher expense allocations, partially offset by lower business promotion expense due to reduced business travel.For the six months ended June 30, 2020, Wealth Management noninterest expense increased $14.4 million, or 2%, from the prior-year quarter, primarily reflectinghigher expense allocations and employee benefits, partially offset by lower business promotion expense due to reduced business travel. 22 Table of Contents REPORTING SEGMENTS (continued) Treasury and Other For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, Treasury and Other noninterest income decreased $5.5 million from the prior-year quarter, due to higher expenses for existingswap agreements related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, noninterest income increased $2.5 million from the prioryear period, due to lower expenses for existing swap agreements related to Visa Inc. Class B common shares. For the quarter ended June 30, 2020, noninterest expense increased $8.5 million from the prior-year quarter, primarily due to costs associated with executingworkplace real estate strategies. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, noninterest expense increased $19.6 million from the prior-year period, primarily due tocosts associated with executing workplace real estate strategies and higher compensation expense related to a one-time supplemental payment to employees inresponse to the COVID-19 pandemic.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Average balances are considered to be a better measure of balance sheet trends, as period-end balances can be impacted by the timing of deposit and withdrawalactivity involving large client balances. The current quarter growth in both the period-end and average consolidated balance sheet was primarily driven by clientresponse to the current economic conditions. Stockholders’ Equity. The increase in average stockholders’ equity was primarily attributable to earnings and accumulated other comprehensive income since theprior-year period, partially offset by the repurchase of common stock pursuant to the Corporation’s share repurchase program and dividend declarations.24 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued) During the three and six months ended June 30, 2020, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $148.2 million and $296.8 million to common stockholders,and cash dividends totaling $4.8 million and $23.8 million to preferred stockholders, respectively. As the Corporation suspended its open-market share repurchase program on March 16, 2020, the only shares repurchased during the three months ended June 30,2020 were 3,349 shares of common stock withheld upon the vesting of share-based compensation at a total cost of $0.2 million ($79.19 average price per share) tosatisfy tax withholding obligations. During the six months ended June 30, 2020, the Corporation repurchased 3,244,087 shares of common stock, including500,211 shares withheld related to share-based compensation, at a total cost of $297.0 million ($91.55 average price per share). During the second quarter of 2020, the Federal Reserve announced certain measures to ensure that large financial institutions, including Northern Trust, remainresilient despite the economic uncertainty resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, for the third quarter of 2020, no share repurchases will bepermitted by these institutions and dividend payments will be limited to the amount paid in the second quarter and may not exceed the payor’s average net incomefor the four preceding quarters. 25 Table of Contents ASSET QUALITY Securities Portfolio Northern Trust maintains a high quality held to maturity debt securities portfolio, with 46% of the portfolio at June 30, 2020 composed of U.S. Treasury andgovernment-sponsored agency securities and other triple-A rated debt securities. The remaining held to maturity debt securities portfolio was comprised of 15%rated double-A, 28% rated below double-A, and 11% not rated by Moody’s Investors Service or Standard and Poor’s. Securities not explicitly rated were groupedwhere possible under the credit rating of the issuer of the security. Net unrealized gains within the investment securities portfolio totaled $825.7 million at June 30, 2020, compared to net unrealized gains of $118.9 million as ofDecember 31, 2019. Net unrealized gains as of June 30, 2020 were comprised of $976.1 million and $150.4 million of gross unrealized gains and losses,respectively. As of June 30, 2020, unrealized losses within available for sale securities of $21.9 million and $24.4 million related to government sponsored agencyand other asset-backed securities, respectively, are primarily attributable to changes in market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. Unrealizedlosses related to corporate debt securities with no credit losses reported of $2.7 million are primarily attributable to changes in credit spreads since purchase.As of June 30, 2020, 22% of the corporate debt securities available for sale portfolio was backed by guarantees provided by U.S. and non-U.S. governmentalentities. Northern Trust participates in the repurchase agreement market as a relatively low cost alternative for short-term funding. Securities purchased under agreementsto resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financings and recorded at the amounts at which the securities wereacquired or sold plus accrued interest. To minimize potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities purchased or sold ismonitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. It is Northern Trust’s policy to takepossession, either directly or via third-party custodians, of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are heldby the counterparty until their repurchase. For additional information relating to the securities portfolio, refer to Note 4 — Securities to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. ConsolidatedFinancial Statements (unaudited). 26 Table of Contents ASSET QUALITY (continued) Nonaccrual Loans and Leases and Other Real Estate Owned During the first quarter of 2020, the Corporation implemented a change in the classification of certain loans and leases to enhance the consistency of its reportingacross various regulatory regimes. As a result, the loan and lease balances as of December 31, 2019 below have been adjusted to conform to the presentation forperiods ended after such date. The adjustments generally reflected reclassification of loans from the commercial real estate class to commercial and institutional,residential real estate, and private client classes. There was no impact on total loans and leases previously reported. Nonaccrual assets consist of nonaccrual loans and leases and other real estate owned (OREO). OREO is comprised of commercial and residential propertiesacquired in partial or total satisfaction of loans. The following table provides the amounts of nonaccrual loans and leases, by loan and lease segment and class, and of OREO that were outstanding at the datesshown, as well as the balance of loans that was delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest. Loans that are delinquent 90 days or more and still accruinginterest can fluctuate widely based on the timing of cash collections, renegotiations and renewals.Nonaccrual assets of $99.4 million as of June 30, 2020 increased primarily related to an increase in the commercial and institutional portfolio primarily due to fournew nonaccrual loans, partially offset by a decrease in the residential real estate portfolio due to net payoffs. In addition to the negative impact on net interestincome and the risk of credit losses, nonaccrual assets also increase operating costs due to the expense associated with collection efforts. Changes in the level ofnonaccrual assets may be indicative of changes in the credit quality of one or more loan classes. Changes in credit quality impact the allowance for credit lossesthrough the resultant adjustment of the allowance evaluated on an individual level and the quantitative and qualitative factors used in the determination of theallowance evaluated on a collective level within the allowance for credit losses. Northern Trust’s underwriting standards do not allow for the origination of loan types generally considered to be high risk in nature, such as option adjustable ratemortgage loans, subprime loans, loans with initial “teaser” rates and loans with excessively high loan-to-value ratios. Residential real estate loans consist of firstlien mortgages and equity credit lines, which generally require a loan-to-collateral value of no more than 65% to 80% at inception. Appraisals of supportingcollateral for residential real estate loans are obtained at loan origination and upon refinancing or default or when otherwise considered warranted. Residential realestate collateral appraisals are performed and reviewed by independent third parties. The commercial real estate portfolio consists of commercial mortgages and construction, acquisition and development loans extended primarily to experiencedinvestors well known to Northern Trust. Underwriting standards generally reflect conservative loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage requirements.Recourse to owners through guarantees also is commonly required. 27 Table of Contents ASSET QUALITY (continued) Nonaccrual Loans and Leases and Other Real Estate Owned (continued) For additional information relating to the loans and leases portfolio, refer to Note 6 — Loans and Leases to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). Allowance for Credit Losses During the first quarter of 2020, the Corporation implemented a change in the classification of certain loans and leases to specific segments to enhance theconsistency of its reporting across various regulatory regimes. The allowance for credit losses as of and prior to December 31, 2019 remains unadjusted, as theimpact of the reclassification on the allowance was immaterial. The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13) onJanuary 1, 2020, which significantly changed the way impairment of financial instruments is recognized by requiring immediate recognition of estimated creditlosses expected to occur over the remaining life of financial instruments. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-13, the Corporation recorded a $13.7 million increase in theallowance for credit losses with a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $10.1 million, net of income taxes. For moreinformation on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements provided inItem 1. Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The allowance for credit losses — which represents management’s estimate of lifetime expected credit losses related to various portfolios subject to credit risk, offbalance-sheet credit exposure, and specific borrower relationships — is determined by management through a disciplined credit review process. Northern Trustmeasures expected credit losses of financial assets with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. A financial asset is measured individually if it does notshare similar risk characteristics with other financial assets and the related allowance is determined through an individual evaluation. Management’s estimates utilized in establishing an appropriate level of allowance for credit losses are not dependent on any single assumption. In determining anappropriate allowance level, management evaluates numerous variables, many of which are interrelated or dependent on other assumptions and estimates, andtakes into consideration past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The results of the credit reserve estimation methodology are reviewed quarterly by Northern Trust’s Credit Loss Reserve Committee, which receives input fromCredit Risk Management, Treasury, Corporate Finance, the Economic Research group, and each of Northern Trust’s business units. ASSET QUALITY (continued) Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) The allowance for credit losses related to loans and leases, undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of credit, debt securities held to maturity, and otherfinancial assets, was $210.2 million, $49.0 million, $6.5 million, and $1.3 million, respectively as of June 30, 2020. For additional information relating to theallowance for credit losses and the changes in the allowance for credit losses during the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 due to charge-offs,recoveries and provisions for credit losses, refer to Note 7 — Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1.Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited). The following table shows the allowance evaluated on an individual and collective level for the loans and leases portfolio by segment and class. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES For a description of Northern Trust’s significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. The use of estimates and assumptions isrequired in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and actual results could differ from those estimates. The U.S. Securities and ExchangeCommission (SEC) has issued guidance relating to the disclosure of critical accounting estimates. Critical accounting estimates are those that require managementto make subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Changes that may berequired in the underlying assumptions or estimates in these areas could have a material impact on Northern Trust’s future financial condition and results ofoperations. For Northern Trust, accounting estimates that are viewed as critical are those relating to the allowance for credit losses and pension plan accounting. Managementhas discussed the development and selection of each critical accounting estimate with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee). For adescription of Northern Trust’s estimate related to pension plan accounting, refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section in the Annual Report on Form 10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2019. For a description of Northern Trust’s estimate related to the allowance for credit losses, refer to the Critical AccountingEstimates section in the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020. For more information on the adoption of ASU 2016-13, please refer to Note 2 — RecentAccounting Pronouncements and Note 7 — Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 1. Consolidated FinancialStatements (unaudited). RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS In January 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2020-01, “Investments—Equity Securities (Topic 321), Investments—EquityMethod and Joint Ventures (Topic 323), and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): 31 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS (continued) Clarifying the Interactions between Topic 321, Topic 323, and Topic 815” (ASU 2020-01). ASU 2020-01 addresses two accounting issues: (1) application of themeasurement alternative under Topic 321 in correlation with the transition into and out of the equity method under Topic 323 and (2) the measurement of certainforward contracts and purchased options to acquire equity securities. ASU 2020-01 clarifies that an entity applying the measurement alternative under Topic 321that must transition to the equity method under Topic 323 because of an observable transaction will remeasure its investment immediately before transition,whereas an entity applying the equity method under Topic 323 that must transition to Topic 321 because of an observable transaction will remeasure its investmentimmediately after transition. ASU 2020-01 also clarifies that certain forward contracts or purchased call options to acquire equity securities generally will bemeasured using the fair value principles of Topic 321 before settlement or exercise. ASU 2020-01 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning afterDecember 15, 2020, although early adoption is permitted. ASU 2020-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated financialcondition or results of operations. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk and trading risk. Interest rate risk is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in netinterest income and the market value of equity. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to causechanges in the value of trading positions. Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: Net Interest Income (NII) sensitivity and Market Value of Equity (MVE)sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with along-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. As part of its risk management activities, Northern Trust also measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a Value-at-Risk(VaR) model and applying the historical simulation methodology. The following information about Northern Trust’s management of market risk should be read inconjunction with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. NII Sensitivity — The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance-sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rateswaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e.,change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks torates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e.,basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. Theseassumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity givenuncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the simulation: ▪ the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similarterms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a moreconservative interest-bearing treatment; ▪ prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analyticssystem that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; ▪ cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgageanalytics vendor; ▪ nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availabilityof historical data and current pricing strategies/or judgment; and ▪ new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,”“estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,”and “could.” Forward-looking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results andoutlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; futurepension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; andexpectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectationsof future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based onassumptions about many important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession or depression in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a numberof factors, including, for example, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and governmental and societal responses thereto; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets ingeneral, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respectto which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative toother currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arisingfrom all such changes and volatility; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, particularly asset-backed securities, the liquidity and pricing of whichmay be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cyber-security, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuationof securities, fraud, systems performance or defects, systems interruptions, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust’s success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor;• changes in the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the calculation of alternative interest rate benchmarks;• the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust;• increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatoryemphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital;• changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect NorthernTrust or its clients; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist events andwar, and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” and any negative effects thereof on global economicconditions, global financial markets, and our business and results of operations; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability todeploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; 36 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements;• Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products;• Northern Trust’s success in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise tosupport increasingly complex products and services; • Northern Trust’s success in implementing its expense management initiatives; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns andpayouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, includingcredit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory processes, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’srecorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary;• the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and• other factors identified elsewhere in the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, including those factorsdescribed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the dateof that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes noobligation to update its forward-looking statements.