                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Trading Platforms Slow Down Amid Rally................................................................................................................ 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TradingPlatformsSlowDownAmidRally                                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Technology                                                              
          Trading Platforms Slow Down Amid Rally                                  
          By Caitlin McCabe and Mischa Frankl-Duval                               
          267 words                                                               
          10 November 2020                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B6                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Customers of popular online brokerages struggled to trade from their accounts Monday, sidelining many
          investors who hoped to capitalize on an exuberant market rally that sent stocks soaring.
          Companies across the investment landscape, from titans such as Charles Schwab Corp. to newcomers like
          Webull Financial LLC, said they had technical glitches as morning trading kicked off. Several of the platforms
          attributed the problems to extreme trading volumes and activity as investors rushed to buy and sell shares.
          Among the companies that received reports of log-in issues or slowness were Vanguard Group, Charles
          Schwab, TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., Fidelity Investments and Webull. Even Discord, the messaging
          platform that many individual investors use to swap trading ideas, experienced a "brief disruption in service,"
          the company said.                                                       
          The problems among platforms came as U.S. stocks zoomed higher, energized by news that a Covid-19
          vaccine proved 90% effective in a study.                                
          The stock-market jumps led to the highest level of volume during the first 30 minutes of trading since at least
          May 2019, the earliest data available, according to Dow Jones Market Data. During that period, more than 3.7
          billion shares of New York Stock Exchange- and Nasdaq-listed stocks changed hands.
          Charles Schwab said some applications experienced technical issues, preventing some clients from being
          able to log in. Vanguard said some clients "may have experienced difficulty accessing their accounts." TD
          Ameritrade said users were experiencing slowness and encountered trouble accessing its mobile app and
          platforms "due to heavy volumes of activity."                           
          Document J000000020201110egba0001c                                      
                                                                                  
          