                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Scooter Company Gets $60 Million.......................................................................................................................... 2
          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to offer
          banking services for merchants, vendors................................................................................................................. 4
                                                                                  
          Lapses at Citi Draw $400 Million Fine ...................................................................................................................... 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ScooterCompanyGets$60Million                                            
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Scooter Company Gets $60 Million                                        
          By Paul Berger                                                          
          747 words                                                               
          22 December 2020                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A10B                                                                    
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          An electric scooter company vying for a place in New York City's ride-share pilot program has secured $60
          million in funding from investors, including the sponsor of the city's popular bike-share program.
          Citigroup Inc. joined venture-capital firm OurCrowd, private-equity firm Winthrop Square Capital, and others
          to invest in Superpedestrian, a firm that has been awarded contracts in 12 cities since launching at the
          beginning of this year.                                                 
          Ed Skyler, executive vice president of global public affairs at Citi, declined to disclose the size of the bank's
          investment in Superpedestrian. But he said Citi believes the firm has a good leadership team and a
          well-designed product.                                                  
          The funding was made through Citi's $200 million impact fund, which is designed to generate returns while
          tackling societal problems.                                             
          Citi is synonymous in New York City with its sponsorship of Citi Bike, the docked-bike share system that is
          run by Lyft Inc.                                                        
                                                                                  
          Mr. Skyler said he doesn't fear that Superpedestrian, if it is successful, will compete with Citi Bike bicycles in
          New York. "People should have options and we believe that there's more than enough room for both," he
          said.                                                                   
          Electric scooters still have a long way to go in New York City where, until recently, they were illegal. The city's
          department of transportation is proceeding cautiously after other cities had issues with the vehicles being
          ridden recklessly or strewn across sidewalks.                           
          Superpedestrian is among more than 25 companies that expressed interest in the pilot program that the city
          expects to launch in March. It will operate only in the outer boroughs because scooter share remains illegal in
          Manhattan.                                                              
          Superpedestrian was founded eight years ago by Chief Executive Assaf Biderman, a faculty member at
          Massachusetts Institute of Technology who specializes in artificial intelligence and machine learning.
          Mr. Biderman and a team that included 40 robotics engineers spent more than four years designing a vehicle
          intelligence system that can diagnose and maintain itself. Before the latest investment, the company raised
          $75 million in prior rounds of funding.                                 
                                                                                  
          The company's first product, a smart electric wheel that turned an ordinary bicycle into a hybrid-electric bike,
          wasn't a commercial success and is no longer for sale.                  
          The company believes its diagnostic and other technologies will be invaluable in the scooter market, where
          firms struggle to turn a profit because of equipment, maintenance and repair costs. "Everybody is losing their
          pants in this business," said Mr. Biderman, who is 43 years old.        
          Superpedestrian says it can keep costs lower than competitors because its scooters, which operate under the
          brand LINK, monitor and in some cases repair themselves.                
                                                                                  
          As a result, they last longer and don't need to be maintained or repaired as regularly as other scooters.
          LINK scooters run a self-diagnosis every 30 minutes, as well as before and d each ride. If the scooter senses
          that components such as battery cells or brakes aren't performing correctly, it modifies its performance or
          stops.                                                                  
          The firm says such diagnostics make its scooters safer than competitors, too.
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Scooters have created myriad issues for cities since they were first introduced a few years ago. Some
          companies that compete with Superpedestrian have been sued after people were seriously injured or killed
          on scooters that allegedly malfunctioned or were driven recklessly.     
          Cities have also had to deal with complaints of scooters being ridden on sidewalks and in parks and other
          places where they were prohibited.                                      
          Mr. Biderman said Superpedestrian has solutions for some of the challenges and is working on fixes for
          others.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Its scooters use a geofencing technology that can tell in under a second if the rider is in a prohibited area
          and stop the ride.                                                      
          They can tell if a person is riding the wrong way or is regularly braking hard and will send the user a
          notification that the company doesn't tolerate unsafe behavior.         
          The company has also developed sensors that can tell if two people are attempting to ride the same scooter.
          It hopes to introduce a feature in the spring that will prevent such a scooter from moving.
                                                                                  
          The company launched its LINK scooter in Fort Pierce, Fla., in January. Since then it has expanded to 11
          other cities, including Seattle, Madrid and Rome.                       
          Mr. Biderman said this latest round of funding would allow Superpedestrian to expand to dozens of other
          cities in the next year.                                                
          Document J000000020201222egcm0001a                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking&Finance:StripetoTeamWithGoldman,Citigroup---Onlinepaymentprocessorsetsdealtoofferbankingservicesformerchants,vendors
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Banking & Finance: Stripe to Team With Goldman, Citigroup --- Online payment processor sets deal to
          offer banking services for merchants, vendors                           
          By Peter Rudegeair                                                      
          419 words                                                               
          4 December 2020                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B9                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Stripe Inc. is teaming up with banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. to offer checking
          accounts and other business-banking services, the startup's latest attempt to become the internet's financial
          supermarket.                                                            
          Stripe, which processes payments for millions of online businesses and e-commerce platforms, will soon give
          its customers the option of offering insured, interest-bearing bank accounts, debit cards and other
          cash-management services.                                               
          These products aren't meant for consumers. Rather, they are designed for the merchants and vendors that
          do business with Stripe's customers.                                    
          Among the early adopters of Stripe's new banking services is Shopify Inc., which, starting early next year, will
          offer Shopify Balance accounts to many of the hundreds of thousands of merchants that use its software.
          Shopify Balance accounts will be held at Memphis, Tenn.-based Evolve Bancorp Inc., but Stripe is also
          teaming up with Goldman in the U.S. and with Citigroup and Barclays PLC internationally to store and move
          customer funds.                                                         
          Digital banks like Square Inc.'s Cash App and startup Chime Financial Inc. have recently earned big
          followings -- and multibillion-dollar valuations -- by providing consumers with alternatives to checking
          accounts.                                                               
          Stripe, on the other hand, is focused on automating business banking, specifically for platforms that
          themselves have existing ties to scores of other businesses.            
          A number of financial-technology companies offer banking and lending services alongside their signature
          products. Square, for example, offers commercial loans to users based in part on signals about
          creditworthiness gleaned from processing payments, a business that Stripe also entered last year.
          For their part, banks have also looked to partnerships with technology companies as a more efficient way to
          gather deposits than mailed-out offers or branch traffic. Starting next year, Alphabet Inc.'s Google will allow
          users to open checking and savings accounts at Citigroup and other banks through the Google Pay app.
          Coronavirus stay-at-home orders and shutdowns have boosted Stripe this year. More than 500,000 new
          businesses have signed up for Stripe services since March, and existing Stripe customers like Shopify and
          DoorDash Inc. experienced a surge of demand.                            
                                                                                  
          "For the partner banks we're working with, our intent for it is to be a shockingly effective customer-acquisition
          channel for them where they end up with many, many more customers," said John Collison, Stripe's
          co-founder and president.                                               
          Document J000000020201204egc40000w                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          LapsesatCitiDraw$400MillionFine                                         
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Lapses at Citi Draw $400 Million Fine                                   
          By David Benoit                                                         
          666 words                                                               
          8 October 2020                                                          
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Federal regulators fined Citigroup Inc. $400 million and ordered the nation's third-largest bank to fix its
          risk-management systems, citing "significant ongoing deficiencies."     
          In a consent order agreed to by the New York bank's board, the Federal Reserve faulted Citigroup for falling
          short in "various areas of risk management and internal controls" including data management, regulatory
          reporting and capital planning. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, in a separate consent order,
          also issued Wednesday, said the fine was punishment for the bank's "long-standing failure" to remedy
          problems in its risk and data-management systems.                       
          The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that the Fed and the OCC were planning to reprimand Citigroup for
          failing to improve its risk-management systems -- an expansive set of technology and procedures designed
          to detect problematic transactions, risky trades and anything else that could harm the bank.
          "We are disappointed that we have fallen short of our regulators' expectations, and we are fully committed to
          thoroughly addressing the issues identified in the Consent Orders," the bank said. "Citi has significant
          remediation projects underway to strengthen our controls, infrastructure and governance."
          The public rebuke marks a major escalation of regulators' efforts to get Citigroup to fix its risk systems.
          For years, the Fed and the OCC have privately pushed Citigroup Chief Executive Michael Corbat to give
          priority to an overhaul of the systems. Their decision to issue consent orders requiring the changes indicates
          that the pressure they were exerting behind the scenes wasn't enough.   
          The reprimand -- in the works for several months -- accelerated planning for Mr. Corbat's retirement. Mr.
          Corbat, who said last month that he would step down in February, felt the expensive, multiyear overhaul was
          best left in the hands of his successor, Jane Fraser, the Journal previously reported. Ms. Fraser is currently
          Citigroup's president and the head of its consumer bank.                
          The punishment, while substantial, is gentler than the rebuke Wells Fargo & Co. got for weaknesses in its
          risk-management systems brought to light by its 2016 fake-account scandal. The OCC fined the bank in early
          2018 more than $1 billion, and the Fed imposed an unprecedented growth cap on the bank.
                                                                                  
          At issue at Citigroup is the infrastructure underpinning the bank's systems meant to identify risk and protect
          customer data.                                                          
          Many of Citigroup's various businesses, for example, run on their own independent systems that have their
          own methods for tracking customers and transactions. There are hundreds of identification systems inside the
          bank. A customer doing business with multiple parts of the bank could have different identification codes for
          each one.                                                               
          Regulators have long fretted that the hodgepodge of systems, a legacy of a string of deals in the 1990s that
          turned Citigroup into a financial powerhouse, could make the bank vulnerable to costly and potentially
          damaging missteps. A recent high-profile error -- Citigroup's accidental $900 million payment to creditors of
          cosmetics company Revlon Inc. -- gave credence to their concerns.       
          The consent orders from the OCC and Fed leave Citigroup with a lengthy to-do list. The regulators ordered
          the bank to form a new board committee to oversee the risk overhaul and to develop plans for holding
          management accountable.                                                 
          The OCC order requires Citigroup to seek approval for any acquisition and gives the regulator power to order
          the bank to replace managers or directors. The Fed and the OCC already broadly exercise veto power over
          big purchases.                                                          
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 6 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          In its order, the OCC called out Citigroup's procedures for reporting problems within the bank to the board of
          directors and its leaders' lack of "clearly defined roles and responsibilities." It said the bank failed to comply
          with "multiple laws and regulations," including the Fair Housing Act.   
          The risk-management overhaul is expected to be an expensive undertaking. Chief Financial Officer Mark
          Mason had said the bank would spend $1 billion on the work this year alone.
          Document J000000020201008ega80001u                                      
                                                                                  
          