 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Except for the following additional risk factor, there have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in Part I. Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

The COVID-19 Pandemic Continues to Create Significant Risks and Uncertainties for Our Business and has Resulted in Additional Regulatory Restrictions on Our Plans to Return to Capital to Shareholders. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios and other regulatory requirements in the United States and internationally, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of our work from home arrangements and staffing levels in operational facilities, challenges associated with our return to office plans such as maintaining a safe office environment and integrating at-home and in-office staff, the impact of market participants on which we rely, actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic and the impact of equity market valuations on our service and management fee revenue. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may also be impacted by actions we take to support the financial markets and the broader economy and our decision to defer most planned headcount reductions through the end of 2020. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, caused fluctuations in equity market valuations, decreased liquidity in fixed income markets, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, increased unemployment levels and disrupted global supply chains. This has created extraordinary demand on our transaction processing capabilities in our asset servicing business and volatility in our foreign exchange and asset management businesses. The market and economic uncertainty has also increased the risks inherent in our activities as a credit provider to investment pools and other institutional investors and caused us to increase our provision for credit losses. In addition, our and other market participants&#8217; reliance upon work from home capabilities, and the potential inability to maintain critical staff in our operational facilities, including facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, China, India and Poland, present risks associated with our and local infrastructure, increasingly restrictive local regulations, illness, quarantine, the sustainability of a work from home environment and increased risk of cybersecurity attacks. Any material or extended disruption of our ability to deliver services or meet our responsibilities in the settlement of securities or other market activities is likely to result in operating losses, loss of revenue or penalties under our service contracts which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. Moreover, governmental actions in response to the pandemic are meaningfully influencing the interest rate environment, which has reduced, and may continue to reduce, our net interest income and net interest margin. 

On March 16, 2020, we announced, together with the other U.S.-based G-SIBs, that we temporarily suspended our common stock repurchase program, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we had no repurchases of our common stock in the second quarter of 2020. Further, in June 2020, the Federal Reserve released results from the 2020 CCAR submission, which included preliminary Stress Capital Buffer (&#8220;SCB&#8221;) requirements for the twelve months starting October 1, 2020. Due to the economic challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic, all participating CCAR banking organizations, including us, will be required to resubmit their capital plans. 

In line with the decision to administer a new stress test, the Federal Reserve is limiting the ability of all CCAR banking organizations to make capital distributions in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, although banking organizations are permitted to pay common stock dividends at previous levels. As a result, CCAR banking organizations, including us, were not permitted to return capital to shareholders in the form of common share repurchases during the third quarter of 2020, and will not be permitted to return capital to shareholders in the form of common share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2020, unless otherwise approved by the Federal Reserve. As of now, our capital distributions in the first quarter of 2021 and beyond will be governed by our minimum capital requirements inclusive of the SCB. 

State Street Corporation | 98 

