 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Part I, Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2020 (the &#8220;2019 Form 10-K&#8221;) based on information currently known to us and recent developments since the date of the 2019 Form 10-K filing. The matters discussed below should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth in the 2019 Form 10-K. However, the risks and uncertainties that we face are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2019 Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities, particularly in light of the fast-changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, containment measures and the related impacts to economic and operating conditions. 

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures implemented to contain the spread of the virus have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 

The emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting containment measures have caused economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to materially adversely affect, our business and results of operations. The extent to which the pandemic will continue to materially adversely affect our business and results of operations will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments that we are not able to predict, including the duration, spread and severity of the outbreak; the nature, extent and effectiveness of containment measures; the extent and duration of the effect on the economy, unemployment, consumer confidence and consumer and business spending; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. 

The COVID-19 pandemic and containment measures have contributed to, among other things: 

&#8226; Widespread changes to, and significant and rapid reductions in, household and business activity and consumer and business spending, as well as economic contraction and a record rise in unemployment. 

&#8226; Adverse impacts on our cobrand and other partners in the travel and airline industries, our GBT JV and on our third-party service providers, merchants, customer acquisition channels, processors, aggregators, network partners and other third parties that we rely on for services that are integral to our operations. 

&#8226; Adverse impacts on the creditworthiness of our customers and other counterparties and their ability to pay amounts owed to us and our ability to collect such amounts. 

&#8226; Adverse impacts on industries representing a significant portion of our billed business (including, but not limited to, the travel and airline industries). 

&#8226; Adverse impacts on capital and credit market conditions and our deposit base, which may limit our access to funding, increase our cost of capital, and affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. 

&#8226; An increased risk of significantly higher Card Member reimbursements for goods or services purchased from merchants that cease operations or are unable to ultimately provide those goods or services or, in the case of our business partners, impairments of rewards points for those partners that are recorded as assets on our balance sheet. 

&#8226; An increased strain on our risk management policies generally, including, but not limited to, the effectiveness and accuracy of our models, given the lack of data inputs and comparable precedent. 

&#8226; An increased risk to the value of our investments and other assets, which has the potential to result in impairment charges. 

&#8226; Adverse impacts on our daily business operations and our colleagues&#8217; ability to perform necessary business functions, including as a result of illness or as a result of restrictions on movement. 

&#8226; Increased challenges in growing or retaining our Card Member base and in launching new products or businesses or refreshing existing products in line with expectations or the current and changing needs of our customers. 

&#8226; Increased spending on our business continuity efforts, such as technology, service centers and our supply chain, and readiness efforts for returning to our offices, which may in turn require that we further cut costs and investments in other areas. 

&#8226; An increased risk of an information or cyber-security incident, fraud, a failure to maintain the uninterrupted operation of our information systems or a failure in the effectiveness of our anti-money laundering and other compliance programs due to, among other things, an increase in remote work. 

The above impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and containment measures are likely to continue and in some cases, may worsen. 

As discussed in MD&#38;A, we began using a new credit reserving methodology known as the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) methodology effective January 1, 2020. Our ability to accurately forecast future losses under that methodology may be impaired by the significant uncertainty surrounding the pandemic and containment measures and the lack of comparable precedent. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, provisions for credit losses were $2.6 billion, which included a reserve build of $1.7 billion. 

The pandemic and containment measures have caused us to modify our strategic plans and business practices, and we may take further actions that we determine are in the best interests of our colleagues, customers and business partners. If we do not respond appropriately to the pandemic, or if customers or other stakeholders do not perceive our response to be adequate, we could suffer damage to our reputation and our brand, which could materially adversely affect our business. 

Governmental authorities have adopted or proposed measures to provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The future success of these measures is unknown and they may not be sufficient to mitigate the negative impact of the pandemic. Additionally, some measures, such as a suspension of loan payments and encouragement of forbearances, may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the pandemic on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. 

If the pandemic is prolonged and/or extends more widely to countries around the world, it could amplify the negative impacts on our business and results of operations, and may also heighten many of the other risks described in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of our 2019 Form 10-K. It is also possible that any adverse impacts of the pandemic and containment measures may continue once the pandemic is controlled and the containment measures are lifted. We do not yet know the full extent of how COVID-19 and the containment measures will affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, or the global economy as a whole. However, the continuing effects are expected to have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 

