                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Bank of America Reverses Pledge Against Fossil Fuels ......................................................................................... 2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BankofAmericaReversesPledgeAgainstFossilFuels                           
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          National Desk; SECTA                                                    
          Bank of America Reverses Pledge Against Fossil Fuels                    
          By Hiroko Tabuchi                                                       
          875 words                                                               
          4 February 2024                                                         
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          19                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          The changes come as Republican lawmakers step up efforts to punish businesses that consider climate
          change and the environment in their operations.                         
          Two years ago, Bank of America won kudos from climate activists for saying it would no longer finance new
          coal mines, coal-burning power plants or Arctic drilling projects because of the toll they take on the
          environment.                                                            
          The bank's latest environment and social-risk policy reneged on those commitments. The policy, updated in
          December, says that such projects will instead be subject to ''enhanced due diligence.''
          Bank of America's change follows intensifying backlash from Republican lawmakers against corporations that
          consider environmental and social factors in their operations. Wall Street in particular has come under fire for
          what some Republicans have called ''woke capitalism,'' a campaign that has pulled banks into the wider
          culture wars.                                                           
          States including Texas and West Virginia have passed financial regulations designed to ward off efforts to
          deny fossil-fuel companies access to banking services. In New Hampshire, state lawmakers have sought to
          criminalize the business principle known as E.S.G., shorthand for environmental, social and governance.
          These actions have sent a chill through the E.S.G. world. Last year, big investors pulled money out of
          sustainability-focused funds at a record rate as they shied away from the sector amid conservative criticism.
          Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset management firm BlackRock and once a prominent proponent of
          E.S.G., said last June that he had stopped using the term because it had become too politicized.
          Bank of America said in a statement that clients or transactions ''that carry heightened risks will continue to
          go through an enhanced due diligence process involving senior level risk review.''
                                                                                  
          In late 2021, the bank's policy stated that it ''will not directly finance new thermal coal mines or the expansion
          of existing mines'' or ''petroleum exploration or production activities in the Arctic.'' It also would not ''directly
          finance the construction or expansion of new coal-fired power plants, including refinancing recently
          constructed plants'' unless those facilities employed carbon capture or similar technology.
          That language is gone from its updated policy.                          
          Even as it rolls back it commitments, the bank continues to say that coal, a major contributor to global
          warming, faced ''significant challenges'' as the world stepped up its efforts to address the climate crisis.
          Moreover, Bank of America says that ''the Arctic is a unique region with specific considerations to take into
          account including those of marine and wildlife, a fragile ecosystem and the rights of Indigenous Peoples.''
          The bank declined to give details of what its risk review would include.
                                                                                  
          There have been other contentious changes. In November, JPMorgan Chase said in its annual climate report
          that it was overhauling the oil and gas emissions-reduction target that had guided its energy investing and
          was adopting a new ''energy mix'' target that took into account financing for clean energy projects.
          Environmental groups criticized the change, saying JPMorgan was obfuscating its previous targets.
          In a statement, JPMorgan said at the time that its modified target recognized that ''a singular focus on fossil
          fuels will not successfully achieve the necessary transition of the global energy system.''
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 3 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Global conflicts in Europe and the Middle East are also driving banks' focus beyond E.S.G. The tensions are
          prompting banks to prioritize energy security, Jane Fraser, the Citigroup chief executive, said at a recent
          conference in Saudi Arabia. Supporters of energy security have tended to prioritize uninterrupted energy
          production over environmental concerns.                                 
          ''There is a new 'S' in E.S.G., which is security -- be it food security, energy security, defense, financial
          security,'' Ms. Fraser said. ''That's certainly a theme that all the C.E.O.s around the world are talking about.''
          Even before the latest reversals, plenty of financing was flowing to coal, oil and gas companies. In 2022,
          fossil-fuel financing from the world's 60 largest banks reached $669 billion, according to a tally from a group
          of advocacy organizations that look at the banks' track records on climate.
          In the seven years after the landmark Paris Agreement of 2015, in which nearly every country in the world
          agreed to reduce emissions of planet-warming greenhouse gases, those same banks financed the fossil-fuel
          industry to the tune of about $5.5 trillion, according to the tally.    
          Emissions from burning fossil fuels for energy are the biggest driver of global climate change. The
          International Energy Agency, the world's leading energy agency, has said that nations of the world need to
          immediately stop approving new coal-burning power plants and new oil and gas fields if they want to avoid
          the most catastrophic effects of climate change.                        
          To environmental advocates, banks' backtracking has effects beyond the financing itself. It ''sends a very bad
          signal,'' said Lucie Pinson, director of Reclaim Finance, a nonprofit that scrutinizes the climate strategies of
          fossil-fuel companies. ''Bank of America is sending a message to its clients that it's OK to take up new
          fossil-fuel assets,'' she said. ''We should have stopped developing such assets years ago.''
          This article appeared in print on page A19.                             
                                                                                  
          Document NYTF000020240207ek2400008                                      
          