                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Capital One-Discover and the Payments Moat ........................................................................................................ 2
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35 billion in
          all-stock deal ............................................................................................................................................................ 4
                                                                                  
          The Tricky Math Behind Using A Credit Card's Travel Portal --- The price you see on an airline's website isn't
          always the same as the one on................................................................................................................................ 6
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CapitalOne-DiscoverandthePaymentsMoat                                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Letters to the Editor                                                   
          Capital One-Discover and the Payments Moat                              
          413 words                                                               
          14 March 2024                                                           
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A14                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.) called for the Biden administration to block Capital One's acquisition of
          Discover ("Block Capital One's Merger With Discover," op-ed, March 8) because she believes that two firms
          are always better than one. But this is a misunderstanding of how competition works. One need only look at
          the broader industry -- Visa, Mastercard and American Express control more than 95% of credit-clearing
          transactions -- to realize the folly of the many-small-firms approach. If the deal is approved, there will be more
          competition in the industry, not less.                                  
          Competition in the market over the past three decades has streamlined technology and reduced costs to the
          point where credit-card acceptance is nearly universal. Providing a smaller network like Discover with the
          financial power of Capital One creates an environment where fees can fall and security can improve.
          It's time to put the Econ 101 definition of competition back on college blackboards and bring real competition
          to the financial-services industry.                                     
          Prof. Michael C. Munger                                                 
          Duke University                                                         
          Durham, N.C.                                                            
                                                                                  
          ---                                                                     
          Mastercard and Visa have a combined $1 trillion market capitalization, reflecting the persistent profits
          resulting from their control of card payments.                          
                                                                                  
          The pricing power they enjoy has repeatedly been shown by academics and others to be to the detriment of
          consumers and merchants alike. Discover is a potentially potent tool to breach the moat protecting this
          payments oligopoly, yet the deal announced by Capital One has provoked a rather tepid market response.
          The deal value of $35 billion and potential incremental profits of $1.2 billion referenced by Sen. Warren and
          additional benefits not referenced by her are rounding errors compared with the magnitude of the issue at
          hand. She should be asking why the deal seems to have generated such a muted response.
          It isn't the merger introducing more concentration and risk that makes the deal of questionable social value, it
          is that the deal grossly fails to realize the potential to enhance market competition.
          Adam Hurwich                                                            
                                                                                  
          New York                                                                
                                                                                  
          ---                                                                     
          Sen. Warren presents many reasons for blocking the merger, including its potential to "increase risks in our
          economy." Would the merger be more harmful to our economy than the country's $34 trillion national debt? I
          think not.                                                              
          Perhaps she and her congressional colleagues should worry about the financial problems they have created
          and the resultant risks to our economy.                                 
                                                                                  
          Paul Stewart                                                            
          Quincy, Mass.                                                           
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240314ek3e00008                                      
          Page 2 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CapitalOneSetToBuyCardRivalDiscover---Acquisitionofsmallercompetitorisvaluedat$35billioninall-stockdeal
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35
          billion in all-stock deal                                               
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Lauren Thomas                                
          860 words                                                               
          20 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Capital One said it will buy Discover Financial Services for more than $35 billion, in a deal that will marry two
          of the largest credit-card companies in the U.S.                        
          Under the terms of the all-stock deal, Discover shareholders are set to receive 1.0192 Capital One shares for
          each Discover share, representing a premium of about 27% based on Discover's closing price Friday. After
          the deal closes, Capital One shareholders will hold roughly 60% of the combined company, with Discover
          shareholders owning the rest.                                           
          Capital One is making a big bet at a booming time in the credit-card sector. More consumers are moving from
          paying with cash to cards as a result of generous rewards programs and the digitization of commerce -- a
          transition that accelerated with the pandemic. A recent increase in credit-card-debt has provided a further
          boost to issuers.                                                       
          Buying Discover would give Capital One, a credit-card lender with a market value of a little over $52 billion, a
          network that would vastly increase its power in the payments ecosystem. 
          Card networks are critical to enabling transactions and setting fees that merchants pay when consumers
          shop with credit cards. Though much smaller than Visa and Mastercard, Discover is one of the few
          competitors to those companies in the U.S., and it is one of a small number of card issuers that also has a
          payments network.                                                       
          Capital One, the ninth-largest bank in the country and a major credit-card issuer, uses Visa and Mastercard
          for most of its cards. The bank plans to switch at least some of its cards to the Discover network, while
          continuing to use Visa and Mastercard on others. Those larger networks have more merchant acceptance
          abroad than Discover does.                                              
          Capital One also plans to maintain the Discover brand on the cards and network -- assuming regulators sign
          off and the deal is consummated.                                        
          Discover, based in Riverwoods, Ill., is an online institution so the takeover wouldn't come with physical bank
          branches, except for one location in Delaware.                          
          The deal follows a tumultuous period for Discover that has included increased regulatory scrutiny and a
          change in leadership.                                                   
                                                                                  
          The company disclosed last year that an internal review found it had misclassified certain credit-card
          accounts beginning in 2007, incorrectly placing them in the highest merchant-and-acquirer pricing tier. The
          company established a liability of $365 million to account for estimated compensation owed to merchants and
          acquirers.                                                              
          Separately, Discover received a consent order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In October,
          Discover said it would address the FDIC order to improve its consumer-compliance operations.
          In December, Discover said financial-industry executive Michael Rhodes would become its chief executive
          officer and president. He took over from John Owen, who had been serving in the interim after Roger
          Hochschild stepped down in August.                                      
          Discover has been approached by large banks and technology companies about an acquisition of all or a
          part of its business over the past decade or more.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tech companies have been interested in acquiring its network so that they can play a more central role in
          payments, but prior senior executives at Discover weren't interested in separating the company's credit-card
          lending side from the network.                                          
          For Capital One, the deal would also further expand the number of cardholders it will count as customers for
          its credit-card lending business. Many Discover cardholders have high credit scores.
          Discover also has consumer deposits, most of which are in savings accounts, allowing Capital One to
          continue to expand its already large presence in that area.             
                                                                                  
          For about a decade now, big U.S. banks have aggressively competed for customers by rolling out new credit
          cards or enhancing their existing ones with more cash-back offers or points programs that dangle the
          possibility of free or discounted airfare, hotel stays or other travel perks.
          Credit-card debt fell during the pandemic but is rising again. That translates into lucrative interest charges
          that cardholders pay to the banks that issue their credit cards.        
          Issuers face the risk of rising delinquencies and loan losses, however, if unemployment rises or a recession
          occurs.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Rising credit-card usage is also a boon to the billions of dollars in interchange fees banks collect every year.
          The fees are set by card networks and paid by merchants when consumers shop with cards. By owning the
          Discover network, Capital One could negotiate interchange fees and other terms directly with merchants for
          card transactions that travel over its network, making Capital One more of a competitor to Visa and
          Mastercard.                                                             
          An acquisition of Discover would rank among the biggest deals so far in 2024. After a lull in M&A activity in
          2023 as economic and other uncertainty and increased interest rates took a bite out of the appetite for deals,
          volumes have gotten off to a relatively strong start and are up 90% in the U.S. compared with a year earlier,
          according to Dealogic.                                                  
          Document J000000020240220ek2k0001s                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          TheTrickyMathBehindUsingACreditCard'sTravelPortal---Thepriceyouseeonanairline'swebsiteisn'talwaysthesameastheoneon...
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          PERSONAL JOURNAL                                                        
          The Tricky Math Behind Using A Credit Card's Travel Portal --- The price you see on an airline's
          website isn't always the same as the one on your credit card's booking tool
          By Jacob Passy                                                          
          1,049 words                                                             
          30 January 2024                                                         
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A10                                                                     
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Chase, American Express and Capital One tout their travel-booking tools for cardholders as a way to
          maximize rewards and make dream vacations a reality. But are those sites a good deal?
          The answer, travelers find, can take some math.                         
          Travelers say differences in price make it tough to determine the best deal. And some grouse that they are
          already paying steep annual fees for certain cards.                     
          Will Biesel, a Dallas attorney who pays $550 for his Chase Sapphire Reserve card, said he has found high
          prices on Chase's travel portal, such as a $456 American Airlines round-trip to North Carolina that the airline
          was offering for nearly $100 less. Another trip, on Southwest, cost 65% more on the portal than from the
          carrier directly, Biesel said.                                          
          Credit-card companies' booking tools often turn up higher fares and room rates than travelers might find on
          airlines' and hotels' own sites, fliers say. Part of the reason is the desire of airlines and hotels to get more
          travelers booking directly, rather than via third parties such as Expedia or Chase's travel portal.
          With many trips booked for this year, Biesel had hoped to use his credit-card points to offset the travel costs.
          But often he felt like he wasn't getting his rewards' worth on the portal.
                                                                                  
          "You hope to get value out of that credit card by spending the points wisely," said Biesel, 28 years old. "It's
          harder to justify the total price if you're not using all the perks."   
          Premium credit cards such as the Chase Sapphire and American Express Platinum are geared to the jet-set
          crowd, and the portals are critical to their appeal. Many of these cards offer cardholders hundreds of dollars in
          travel credits that can be used only in their dedicated portals. They also entice people to spend their own
          money, versus their rewards, by offering significantly more points or miles for booking with them.
          About 14% of U.S. cardholders typically went to their credit card's travel portal to research and book trips,
          according to a 2022 study from the Futurist Group, a payments-industry consulting firm. More than a third of
          those travelers said they weren't pleased with the experience.          
          "The No. 1 barrier to growth of these portals is the perception that the price is not necessarily the best deal,"
          Futurist Group founder and Chief Executive Demitry Estrin said.         
          A Chase spokeswoman said the company is "committed to providing cardmembers with competitive pricing
          whether they're booking with points or cash."                           
                                                                                  
          Credit-card companies don't set prices for hotel rooms or plane tickets. Most don't even operate the
          travel-booking features connected to their cards -- major online travel agencies do. Hopper manages Capital
          One's website, and Expedia powers American Express's consumer-travel site.
          Cardholders often find different prices based on where they check.      
                                                                                  
          In some cases, these travelers might not be comparing apples to apples. With airfares, it is important to
          check which fare class is advertised when you search. Some websites advertise basic economy -- a type of
          fare with extra restrictions in exchange for a lower price -- as the default option. Others display regular
          economy-ticket prices.                                                  
          Flight and hotel prices also fluctuate based on demand.                 
                                                                                  
          Page 6 of 8 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Not all websites update their pricing at the same time, said Cory Garner, an independent consultant who led
          sales and distribution strategy at American Airlines until 2020. If an airline lowers its fares from Chicago to
          Dallas, that change might not show up immediately for online booking sites.
          Separately, airlines have started implementing new technology to distribute their seats to third parties such
          as online travel agencies, Garner said. That technology lets carriers more easily offer travelers extra options,
          including additional categories for seat selection.                     
          As they push travel agencies and corporate-travel managers to adopt the technology, some carriers have
          limited which fares remain available on the old distribution systems. They are typically higher fares, Garner
          said.                                                                   
          "Credit-card travel portals who are using older distribution technology do not have the same access, despite
          American's best efforts to make these fares available to them," an American Airlines spokeswoman said.
                                                                                  
          Hotels generally don't reward points in their own loyalty programs and may not offer other benefits to people
          who booked anywhere but through the hotel itself, said Adam Morvitz, founder and CEO of point.me, a points
          and miles search aggregator and booking service.                        
          And when travel snags occur, rebooking can become tougher. In many cases, airlines require travelers to
          hash out any problems via the site they booked on.                      
          The Chase spokeswoman noted that the company can rebook cardmembers with multiple airline partners
          when service disruptions arise.                                         
                                                                                  
          Using a credit card's travel site to book a vacation can sometimes provide enough advantages to outweigh
          potential price differences.                                            
          Joshua Gellers of Jacksonville, Fla., starts his travel research with Google Flights to get a read on prices. He
          then checks his credit card's travel site, factoring in additional rewards he would earn going that route.
          Credit-card companies sometimes have offers that can boost the rewards rate even higher for customers.
          When booking a Sydney hotel last summer, he found booking directly with the hotel was cheaper than his
          credit-card company's site. But the rewards offered by the card site swayed him, since their value was greater
          than what he would save by cutting out the middleman.                   
          Gellers, a professor at the University of North Florida, notes that his tactics aren't for everyone: "Think about
          how much extra effort that is for the average traveler."                
                                                                                  
          Sometimes, credit cards will advertise special discounts on flights or vacation packages only for their
          cardholders.                                                            
          Capital One Travel offers price-matching if lower prices are available at the time of booking and free
          price-drop protection for flights. The site monitors flight prices up to 10 days after customers book. If that
          itinerary's price falls, Capital One issues a travel credit of up to $50, with some limitations.
          Document J000000020240130ek1u0000a                                      
                                                                                  
          