                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: Discover Finds a Buyer, Nvidia Hits New Heights....
          2                                                                       
          A Bad Day for Tech Stocks Drags Down Wall Street............................................................................................... 3
                                                                                  
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35 billion in
          all-stock deal ............................................................................................................................................................ 5
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin5Stocks:DiscoverFindsaBuyer,NvidiaHitsNewHeights
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: Discover Finds a Buyer, Nvidia Hits New
          Heights                                                                 
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          418 words                                                               
          24 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES                                             
          DFS +13%                                                                
          Capital One Financial is taking over Discover. The bank said it will acquire Discover for more than $35 billion
          in a deal that would combine two of the largest U.S. credit-card companies. Discover is one of the few
          companies in the U.S., aside from Visa and Mastercard, that operates a payments network, a system that
          allows businesses to process credit-card purchases. Discover shares gained 13% Tuesday, while Capital
          One shares edged 0.1% higher.                                           
          NVIDIA                                                                  
          NVDA +16%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Nvidia posted another quarter of blockbuster results, driven by the artificial-intelligence frenzy. Nvidia's fiscal
          fourth-quarter earnings surged more than eightfold from a year earlier. Sales more than tripled, and the
          company expects them to do so again in the current period. As businesses spend massive amounts to build
          AI systems, demand for the chips that power those systems has soared beyond Nvidia's manufacturing
          capacity. Nvidia shares jumped 16% Thursday, hitting an all-time high.  
          INTUITIVE MACHINES                                                      
          LUNR +16%                                                               
                                                                                  
          The uncrewed Odysseus spacecraft landed on the moon Thursday, the first time a U.S. vehicle has touched
          down there since 1972. Odysseus was built by Houston-based Intuitive Machines, and its landing marked the
          first time a private company has completed a moon landing. Intuitive Machines is working under contract for
          the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Intuitive Machines shares rocketed 16% higher Friday.
          RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE                                                       
          RIVN -26%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Rivian's stock lost its charge on Thursday. The electric-vehicle startup reported weaker-than-expected
          results, and said it would lay off 10% of its salaried workforce. Rivian also said it expects vehicle output to be
          flat this year, missing analysts' forecasts. Executives cited tougher market conditions, including higher interest
          rates that make monthly vehicle payments pricier. U.S. EV sales rose 47% last year, down from about 70%
          growth in the previous year. Rivian shares plummeted 26% Thursday.      
          AT&T                                                                    
          T -2.4%                                                                 
                                                                                  
          A nationwide cellular outage left thousands of people without bars on Thursday. There were nearly 75,000
          reports of AT&T outages Thursday morning, according to internet-outage tracker Downdetector. Some AT&T
          users said their phones were stuck in SOS mode, meaning they had no service but could make emergency
          calls. AT&T said three-quarters of its network had been restored as of late morning. AT&T shares lost 2.4%
          Thursday.                                                               
          Document J000000020240224ek2o0001d                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 2 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          ABadDayforTechStocksDragsDownWallStreet                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Business/Financial Desk; SECTB                                          
          A Bad Day for Tech Stocks Drags Down Wall Street                        
          By The Associated Press                                                 
          665 words                                                               
          21 February 2024                                                        
          The New York Times                                                      
          NYTF                                                                    
          Late Edition - Final                                                    
          2                                                                       
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.         
          Technology stocks led Wall Street broadly lower on Tuesday as the chipmaker Nvidia pulled back ahead of
          its earnings report this week.                                          
          The S&P 500 fell 0.6 percent. The benchmark index is coming off only its second losing week in the last 16.
          The Nasdaq composite gave up 0.9 percent and the Dow lost 0.2 percent.  
          Technology stocks were among the biggest weights on the market. Nvidia, which has ridden a wave of
          investor enthusiasm over artificial intelligence, lost 4.4 percent. The stock has more than tripled over the past
          year.                                                                   
          Big retailers reported mixed earnings. Walmart rose 3.2 percent after reporting stronger-than-expected results
          for its latest quarter and issuing sales forecasts that came in ahead of what Wall Street was expecting.
          The home improvement retailer Home Depot wavered between small gains and losses, ending up 0.06
          percent. It beat Wall Street's earnings forecasts, but gave investors a disappointing profit forecast for the
          year.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          Outside of earnings, credit card company Capital One Financial rose 0.2 percent as it moves ahead with a
          $35 billion buyout of Discover Financial Services. Discover soared 12.9 percent for the biggest gain in the
          S&P 500.                                                                
          Markets are coming off a heavy week of economic reports that hinted at stubborn inflation squeezing
          consumer spending. That has pushed expectations for the Federal Reserve to start cutting interest rates
          further out into 2024. The central bank on Wednesday will release minutes from its latest meeting, potentially
          giving investors more insight into its next move.                       
          The central bank held interest rates steady at its last meeting in late January and investors had been hoping
          for rate cuts as soon as March. Those hopes were dashed by the Fed's comments and the latest batch of
          economic data. Wall Street is now betting on a possible rate cut in May and a likely rate cut in June,
          according to CME's FedWatch Tool.                                       
          Those lowered expectations for interest rate cuts and renewed worries about inflation have essentially tripped
          up the broader market.                                                  
          ''The narrative that drove us to these levels is very much being called into question,'' said Sameer Samana,
          senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute.    
                                                                                  
          Bond yields fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury slipped to 4.27 percent from 4.28 percent late Friday. The
          yield on the two-year Treasury fell to 4.58 percent from 4.65 percent.  
          Markets in Europe were mixed and markets in Asia were mostly higher.    
          China's central bank kept its one-year loan prime rate unchanged on Tuesday but cut its five-year rate by 25
          basis points to 3.95 percent. That came as a surprise, the first time the five-year rate was cut since May
          2023.                                                                   
                                                                                  
          Investors have a relatively light week of economic updates ahead, with the latest data on home sales
          expected Thursday. The broader housing market remains tight, with demand still outpacing supplies.
          Mortgage rates also remain high, though still below late October, when the average rate on a 30-year
          mortgage hit 7.79 percent.                                              
          Page 3 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Companies from a broad range of industries will report their latest earnings this week. The online travel
          company Booking Holdings reports Thursday. The latest batch of results might give investors a clearer idea
          of the economy's path ahead.                                            
          More than 80 percent of companies in the S&P 500 have reported their latest results. Analysts polled by
          FactSet expect overall earnings growth of about 3.3 percent for the fourth quarter and are forecasting
          earnings growth of about 3.6 percent for the current quarter.           
          Wall Street will have to wait until the end of February for another inflation update, when the government
          releases its monthly personal consumption and expenses report, which is the Fed's preferred measure.
          This article appeared in print on page B2.                              
                                                                                  
          Document NYTF000020240221ek2l0004o                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 4 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          CapitalOneSetToBuyCardRivalDiscover---Acquisitionofsmallercompetitorisvaluedat$35billioninall-stockdeal
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Capital One Set To Buy Card Rival Discover --- Acquisition of smaller competitor is valued at $35
          billion in all-stock deal                                               
          By AnnaMaria Andriotis and Lauren Thomas                                
          860 words                                                               
          20 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          A1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Capital One said it will buy Discover Financial Services for more than $35 billion, in a deal that will marry two
          of the largest credit-card companies in the U.S.                        
          Under the terms of the all-stock deal, Discover shareholders are set to receive 1.0192 Capital One shares for
          each Discover share, representing a premium of about 27% based on Discover's closing price Friday. After
          the deal closes, Capital One shareholders will hold roughly 60% of the combined company, with Discover
          shareholders owning the rest.                                           
          Capital One is making a big bet at a booming time in the credit-card sector. More consumers are moving from
          paying with cash to cards as a result of generous rewards programs and the digitization of commerce -- a
          transition that accelerated with the pandemic. A recent increase in credit-card-debt has provided a further
          boost to issuers.                                                       
          Buying Discover would give Capital One, a credit-card lender with a market value of a little over $52 billion, a
          network that would vastly increase its power in the payments ecosystem. 
          Card networks are critical to enabling transactions and setting fees that merchants pay when consumers
          shop with credit cards. Though much smaller than Visa and Mastercard, Discover is one of the few
          competitors to those companies in the U.S., and it is one of a small number of card issuers that also has a
          payments network.                                                       
          Capital One, the ninth-largest bank in the country and a major credit-card issuer, uses Visa and Mastercard
          for most of its cards. The bank plans to switch at least some of its cards to the Discover network, while
          continuing to use Visa and Mastercard on others. Those larger networks have more merchant acceptance
          abroad than Discover does.                                              
          Capital One also plans to maintain the Discover brand on the cards and network -- assuming regulators sign
          off and the deal is consummated.                                        
          Discover, based in Riverwoods, Ill., is an online institution so the takeover wouldn't come with physical bank
          branches, except for one location in Delaware.                          
          The deal follows a tumultuous period for Discover that has included increased regulatory scrutiny and a
          change in leadership.                                                   
                                                                                  
          The company disclosed last year that an internal review found it had misclassified certain credit-card
          accounts beginning in 2007, incorrectly placing them in the highest merchant-and-acquirer pricing tier. The
          company established a liability of $365 million to account for estimated compensation owed to merchants and
          acquirers.                                                              
          Separately, Discover received a consent order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. In October,
          Discover said it would address the FDIC order to improve its consumer-compliance operations.
          In December, Discover said financial-industry executive Michael Rhodes would become its chief executive
          officer and president. He took over from John Owen, who had been serving in the interim after Roger
          Hochschild stepped down in August.                                      
          Discover has been approached by large banks and technology companies about an acquisition of all or a
          part of its business over the past decade or more.                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 5 of 7 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Tech companies have been interested in acquiring its network so that they can play a more central role in
          payments, but prior senior executives at Discover weren't interested in separating the company's credit-card
          lending side from the network.                                          
          For Capital One, the deal would also further expand the number of cardholders it will count as customers for
          its credit-card lending business. Many Discover cardholders have high credit scores.
          Discover also has consumer deposits, most of which are in savings accounts, allowing Capital One to
          continue to expand its already large presence in that area.             
                                                                                  
          For about a decade now, big U.S. banks have aggressively competed for customers by rolling out new credit
          cards or enhancing their existing ones with more cash-back offers or points programs that dangle the
          possibility of free or discounted airfare, hotel stays or other travel perks.
          Credit-card debt fell during the pandemic but is rising again. That translates into lucrative interest charges
          that cardholders pay to the banks that issue their credit cards.        
          Issuers face the risk of rising delinquencies and loan losses, however, if unemployment rises or a recession
          occurs.                                                                 
                                                                                  
          Rising credit-card usage is also a boon to the billions of dollars in interchange fees banks collect every year.
          The fees are set by card networks and paid by merchants when consumers shop with cards. By owning the
          Discover network, Capital One could negotiate interchange fees and other terms directly with merchants for
          card transactions that travel over its network, making Capital One more of a competitor to Visa and
          Mastercard.                                                             
          An acquisition of Discover would rank among the biggest deals so far in 2024. After a lull in M&A activity in
          2023 as economic and other uncertainty and increased interest rates took a bite out of the appetite for deals,
          volumes have gotten off to a relatively strong start and are up 90% in the U.S. compared with a year earlier,
          according to Dealogic.                                                  
          Document J000000020240220ek2k0001s                                      
          