                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: A Bank's Wild Ride, An Airline Deal Grounded........
          2                                                                       
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: McDonald's Drops, Disney Gains on Sports .......... 4
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin6Stocks:ABank'sWildRide,AnAirlineDealGrounded
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 6 Stocks: A Bank's Wild Ride, An Airline Deal
          Grounded                                                                
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          566 words                                                               
          9 March 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP                                              
          NYCB +7.5%                                                              
          NYCB's stock went on a wild ride Wednesday. The Wall Street Journal reported that the troubled regional
          lender was seeking to raise equity capital in a bid to shore up confidence, sending shares down more than
          40% during the session. Amid several trading halts, NYCB said it raised more than $1 billion from a group of
          investors including former U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. The company also disclosed a sweeping
          overhaul of its management. NYCB shares recovered once trading resumed, ending 7.5% higher
          Wednesday, followed by a 5.8% gain Thursday after NYCB cut its quarterly dividend.
          Rivian Automotive                                                       
          RIVN +13%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Rivian hopes to jump-start sales with its new, more affordable electric cars. The electric-vehicle startup
          unveiled two new SUVs on Thursday: the midsize R2, which is slated to go on sale in 2026, and a smaller
          model called the R3. Rivian didn't say when the R3 would go on sale. The R2 resembles a smaller version of
          Rivian's $75,000 R1S SUV, with a lower price tag of $45,000. Rivian reported a $5.4 billion net loss for last
          year, and in February said it would lay off 10% of its salaried workforce. Rivian shares jumped 13% Thursday.
          KROGER                                                                  
          KR +9.9%                                                                
                                                                                  
          Kroger bagged more sales in the latest quarter. The supermarket chain on Thursday said sales rose 6% in
          the fourth quarter as customer visits increased. Chief Executive Rodney McMullen told The Wall Street
          Journal that shoppers' attitudes are improving after persistent increases in food costs. The Biden
          administration has criticized grocery companies for price hikes and the Federal Trade Commission sued to
          block Kroger and Albertsons' $25 billion merger, saying the deal would lead to higher prices. Kroger shares
          jumped 9.9% Thursday.                                                   
          TARGET                                                                  
          TGT +12%                                                                
          Target has its eyes set on a turnaround. The retailer on Tuesday posted stronger-than-expected profits in the
          holiday quarter and announced a new paid membership program, Target Circle 360. Target also introduced
          plans to open hundreds of new stores and to invest in improvements to most of its locations over the next
          decade.                                                                 
          Target shares jumped 12% Tuesday. making the stock the S&P 500's best performer.
                                                                                  
          SPIRIT AIRLINES                                                         
          SAVE -11%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Spirit and JetBlue Airways have grounded their merger plans for good. The two airlines on Monday said they
          were terminating the $3.8 billion deal, after deciding that they likely couldn't overcome the legal and
          regulatory hurdles in the way of the merger. A judge in January ruled that combining the two airlines would
          reduce competition and harm cost-conscious fliers. The two would have formed the fifth-largest U.S. carrier.
          Spirit shares dropped 11% Monday, while JetBlue shares gained 4.3%.     
          Page 2 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          BROADCOM                                                                
          AVGO -7%                                                                
                                                                                  
          Broadcom's giant deal with VMware overshadowed AI appetite in its latest quarter. The chip and software
          maker posted weaker-than-expected quarterly profit due to deal-related costs after closing its acquisition of
          the software company last year. The deal, valued at $69 billion, is one of the largest-ever tech tie-ups. Chief
          Executive Hock Tan gave a stronger outlook for artificial-intelligence chip revenue for the fiscal year.
          Broadcom shares fell 7% Friday.                                         
          Document J000000020240309ek390001k                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 5 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                   
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE---TheScore/TheBusinessWeekin5Stocks:McDonald'sDrops,DisneyGainsonSports
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          EXCHANGE --- The Score / The Business Week in 5 Stocks: McDonald's Drops, Disney Gains on
          Sports                                                                  
          By Francesca Fontana                                                    
          412 words                                                               
          10 February 2024                                                        
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B2                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          ESTEE LAUDER                                                            
          EL +12%                                                                 
          Cosmetics giant Estee Lauder said it would lay off up to 5% of its staff, or up to 3,100 workers. The company
          also reported falling profits in the latest quarter. The maker of MAC Cosmetics and Aveda, which has roughly
          62,000 employees, said that it expects to take restructuring and other charges of between $500 million and
          $700 million, and that it would retrain and redeploy some staff. Estee Lauder shares soared 12% Monday.
          NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP                                              
                                                                                  
          NYCB +6.7%                                                              
          Regional lender NYCB on Wednesday named Alessandro DiNello as executive chairman. The move comes
          after NYCB reported a fourth-quarter loss and slashed its dividend to build capital after acquiring Flagstar
          Bank and the failed Signature Bank. DiNello is the former head of Flagstar Bank. Since the report, NYCB
          stock has dropped, reigniting fears of regional bank failures. NYCB executives raced to say the bank is
          sound. NYCB shares gained 6.7% Wednesday.                               
          MCDONALD'S                                                              
          MCD -3.7%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Israel's war in Gaza is weighing on McDonald's. Price increases and menu promotions helped boost its U.S.
          sales in the latest quarter, but the conflict in the Middle East hit its international sales. McDonald's has been
          the target of online criticism and boycotts, as the company pushed back against accusations that it has
          favored one side or the other in the conflict. McDonald's shares lost 3.7% Monday.
          PALANTIR TECHNOLOGIES                                                   
          PLTR +31%                                                               
                                                                                  
          Data analytics firm Palantir Technologies on Monday reported a record profit for 2023, as commercial
          demand for Palantir's AI products surged. That revenue helped offset slowing growth in sales to the U.S.
          government. Palantir is betting on its software becoming integral in modern combat. SoftBank-backed chip
          designer Arm Holdings on Wednesday beat sales expectations and gave strong outlook. Palantir shares
          surged 31% Tuesday, and Arm shares jumped 48% Thursday.                 
          WALT DISNEY                                                             
          DIS +11%                                                                
                                                                                  
          Disney's ESPN, Fox and Warner Bros. Discovery announced they are teaming up to create a
          sports-streaming service. During Disney's quarterly report, Chief Executive Bob Iger unveiled a $1.5 billion
          investment in "Fortnite"-maker Epic Games and an exclusive cut of Taylor Swift's Eras Tour concert movie.
          The new initiatives come as Iger contends with activist investor battles and struggles in its movie studios.
          Disney shares jumped 11% Thursday.                                      
          Document J000000020240210ek2a0001m                                      
          