 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OF FICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

The information required by this item relating to executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant." 

The information required by this item regarding Directors is incorporated herein by reference to information to be included under the caption "Proposal #1: Election of Directors" of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 30, 2024 (the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders), which will be provided to shareholders within 120 days after December 31, 2023. 

The information required by this item regarding the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee financial experts is incorporated herein by reference to information to be included under the caption "Corporate Governance &#8211; Committees of the Board of Directors &#8211; Audit Committee" of the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be provided to shareholders within 120 days after December 31, 2023. 

The information required by this item concerning Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance is incorporated herein by reference to information to be included under the caption "Stock Ownership &#8211; Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" of the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be provided to shareholders within 120 days after December 31, 2023. 

The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. You can find the Company's code of ethics on its website by going to the following address: http://investorrelations.umb.com . Information on the Company&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference into this report and should not be considered part of this document. The Company will post on its website any amendments or waivers to its code of ethics that are required to be disclosed under the rules of either the SEC or NASDAQ. A copy of the code of ethics will be provided, at no charge, to any person requesting the same, by written notice sent to the Company's Corporate Secretary, 6 th floor, 1010 Grand Blvd., Kansas City, Missouri 64106. 

