 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Webster Financial Corporation (the Holding Company) is a bank holding company and financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1986, and headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. Webster Bank, National Association (Webster Bank), and its HSA Bank division (HSA Bank), deliver a wide range of banking, investment, and financial services to individuals, families, and businesses. Webster Bank serves consumer and business customers with mortgage lending, financial planning, trust, and investment services through a distribution network consisting of banking centers, ATMs, a customer care center, and a full range of web and mobile-based banking services throughout the northeastern U.S. from New York to Massachusetts. It also offers equipment financing, commercial real estate lending, asset-based lending, and treasury and payment solutions, primarily in the eastern U.S. HSA Bank is a leading provider of health savings accounts (HSAs), and also delivers health reimbursement arrangements, and flexible spending and commuter benefit account administration services to employers and individuals in all 50 states. 

Merger with Sterling Bancorp 

Effective January 31, 2022, Webster completed its previously announced merger with Sterling pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 18, 2021. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Sterling merged with and into Webster, with Webster continuing as the surviving corporation. Following the merger, on February 1, 2022, Sterling National Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sterling, merged with and into Webster Bank, with Webster Bank continuing as the surviving bank. 

Additional information regarding Webster's merger with Sterling can be found in Part II under the section captioned "Recent Developments" contained in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and within Note 3: Business Developments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Subsidiaries and Reportable Segments 

At December 31, 2021, Webster Financial Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries included Webster Bank (the Bank), Webster Wealth Advisors, Inc., and Webster Licensing, LLC. Webster Bank's significant subsidiaries included: Webster Business Credit Corporation, Webster Capital Finance Inc., Webster Servicing LLC, Webster Public Finance Corporation, and Webster Mortgage Investment Corporation, a passive investment subsidiary whose primary function is to provide servicing on qualified passive investments, such as residential and commercial mortgage loans acquired from the Bank. Webster Bank's operations are organized into reportable segments, which represent its primary businesses. 

Beginning in the first quarter of 2022, Webster's reportable segment structure will also reflect the operations of businesses acquired in connection with the Company's merger with Sterling. The segment reporting information discussed below and throughout this Form 10-K reflects the organization that remained in effect at December 31, 2021. 

Commercial Banking serves corporate customers with more than $2 million of revenue through its Business Banking, Middle Market, Asset-Based Lending, Equipment Finance, Commercial Real Estate, Sponsor and Specialty Finance, and Treasury and Payment Solutions business units. 

&#8226; Business Banking offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management products to businesses and professional service firms. 

&#8226; Middle Market offers a broad range of financial services to a diversified group of companies delivering competitive products and solutions that meet their specific middle market needs. 

&#8226; Webster Business Credit Corporation, Webster's asset-based lending business, is a top U.S. asset-based lender, and offers asset-based loans and revolving credit facilities by financing core working capital with advance rates against inventory, accounts receivable, equipment or other property owned by the borrower. 

&#8226; Webster Capital Finance Inc., Webster's equipment finance business, offers small to mid-ticket equipment leasing solutions for critical equipment, new or used, across the manufacturing, construction and transportation, and environmental sectors. 

&#8226; Commercial Real Estate offers financing alternatives, primarily in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic, for the purpose of acquiring, developing, constructing, improving, or refinancing commercial real estate, in which loans are typically secured by institutional-quality real estate, including apartments, anchored retail, industrial, office, and student and affordable housing properties, and where the income generated from the secured property is the primary repayment source. 

&#8226; Sponsor and Specialty Finance offers senior debt capital to companies across the U.S. that are backed by private equity sponsors and/or are in one of our specialty industries: technology, media and telecommunications, healthcare, environmental services, and restaurants and franchises. 

&#8226; Treasury and Payment Solutions offers derivative, treasury, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and trade products and services, through a dedicated team of treasury professionals and local commercial bankers, to help its business and institutional customers enhance liquidity, improve operations, and reduce risk. 

In addition, through its strategic partnership with LPL Financial Holdings Inc., a registered investment advisor and broker-dealer, and both a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and Securities Investor Protection Corporation member, Commercial Banking's wealth group offers an array of wealth management solutions to business owners, operators, and consumers within Webster's targeted markets and retail footprint, including trust, asset management, financial planning, insurance, retirement, and investment products. Webster Bank has employees located throughout its distribution network who are registered representatives of LPL Financial Holdings Inc. 

HSA Bank , serviced through Webster Servicing LLC, offers a comprehensive consumer-directed healthcare solution that includes HSAs, health reimbursement arrangements, flexible spending accounts, and commuter benefits. HSAs are used in conjunction with high deductible health plans in order to facilitate tax advantages for account holders with respect to health care spending and savings, in accordance with applicable laws. HSAs are distributed nationwide directly to employers and individual consumers, as well as through national and regional insurance carriers, benefit consultants, and financial advisors. HSA Bank deposits provide long-duration, low cost funding that is used to minimize the Bank's use of wholesale funding in support of its loan growth. Non-interest revenue is generated predominantly through service fees and interchange income. 

Retail Banking operates a distribution network across southern New England and into Westchester Country, New York, that comprised 130 banking centers and 251 ATMs, a customer care center, and a full range of web and mobile-based banking services. Retail Banking's business units consist of Consumer Lending and Small Business Banking. 

&#8226; Consumer Lending offers consumer deposit and fee-based services, residential mortgages, home equity lines, secured and unsecured loans, and credit card products. 

&#8226; Small Business Banking offers credit, deposit, and cash flow management products targeted to businesses and professional service firms with annual revenues of up to $2 million. 

Additional information regarding Webster's reportable segments can be found in Part II under the section captioned "Segment Reporting" contained Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and within Note 21: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Human Capital Resources 

As a values-driven organization, our employees are the cornerstone of our success. At December 31, 2021, Webster had 3,245 total employees, which included 2,424 full-time, 452 part-time, and 369 temporary employees, and consisted of approximately 60% female and 40% male employees. None of our employees were represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging 

We believe that our focus on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging (DEIB) is a critical component of how we support the increasingly diverse perspectives of our employees and clients. It is not only key to our long-term growth, but also having a workforce comprised of diverse identities, backgrounds, and experiences better helps the clients and communities we serve. Our commitment to DEIB starts with Webster's senior leadership team, who continuously work to ensure that DEIB is integrated into the way we do business. Webster has established a DEIB Council, which serves as a platform where senior leaders and representatives of our various business resource groups shape the strategy and actions of our DEIB efforts. The Council currently comprises 22 employee members across the organization and is co-chaired by our Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President of Business Banking, both of whom make recommendations on ways to integrate DEIB in the areas of education and awareness, talent development, employee engagement, and client and community service. We also have an appointed DEIB Officer to expand our DEIB programs and grow partnerships within our local communities, and to promote a diverse workforce in an open, inclusive environment. 

Compensation and Benefits 

Webster's compensation program aims to attract, retain, and reward high-performing talent at all levels of the organization through a pay-for-performance philosophy. Variable payment opportunities are available to all employees, including corporate incentive plans, sales/service commission or incentive plans, and equity plans for senior-level executives. Comprehensive benefits and wellness resources are provided to employees, including medical, dental, vision, wellness incentives, life insurance, voluntary supplemental life insurance, short-term and long-term disability, as well as a 401(k) retirement savings plan with a company match, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, Employee Assistance Program, parental leave, and paid time off. Webster shares in the costs of benefits with its employees by paying approximately 80% of all insurance costs. In addition, Webster contributes to participating employees&#8217; HSAs through earned incentives for completing activities such as biometric screenings, wellness physicals, and dental exams. Benefit trends are reviewed regularly and plans are adjusted accordingly to remain competitive. We believe that our current benefits practices play a key role in employee retention. At December 31, 2021, the average employee tenure was approximately 8.2 years. 

Learning and Development 

We are focused on investing in our current and future talent by actively supporting the success, growth, and career progression of our employees. Webster's learning and development strategy comprises five core areas: (i) business education and job-specific training, (ii) professional development, (iii) leadership development, (iv) compliance training, and (v) career programs and certifications. Our employees have access to hundreds of offerings through Webster Bank University, the Company's internal destination for learning where we have made available various types of virtual content, from on-demand webinars to podcasts and e-learning modules. Webster also provides free access to online courses taught by industry experts with curated learning paths that are designed specifically for their professional interests. 

Competition 

Webster is subject to strong competition from banks, thrifts, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, consumer finance companies, investment companies, insurance companies, and online lending and savings institutions. Certain of these competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of commercial and consumer banking services than Webster. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-bank organizations, greater technological developments in the industry, and continued bank regulatory reforms. 

Webster faces substantial competition for deposits and loans throughout its market areas. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of office locations and hours, mobile banking, and other automated services. Competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, non-bank health savings account trustees, mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. The primary factors in competing for consumer and commercial loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, ease and convenience of loan origination channels, the quality and range of lending services, personalized service, and the ability to close within customers&#8217; desired time frame. Competition for the origination of loans comes primarily from commercial banks, non-bank lenders, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, mortgage brokers, online lenders, and insurance companies. Other factors that affect competition include the general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, and volatility in the lending markets. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institutions is intended to protect depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund, consumers, and the U.S. banking system as a whole, not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as Webster. 

Set forth below is a summary of the significant elements of the laws and regulations applicable to Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. Changes in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Webster and its bank and non-bank subsidiaries, including how they are implemented or interpreted, could have a material effect on the results of the Company. 

Regulatory Agencies 

Webster Financial Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Webster Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a registered bank holding company and a financial holding company, Webster is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination, and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Webster is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both of which are administered by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As a company with securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Webster is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. 

Webster Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Bank Act, and is subject to the supervision of and regular examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), its primary federal regulator, as well as by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), its deposit insurer. As a national banking association, Webster Bank derives its lending, investment, and other bank activity powers from the National Bank Act, as amended, and the regulations of the OCC promulgated thereunder. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) supervises the Bank to ensure compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. 

Webster&#8217;s non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and other applicable federal and state agencies. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

Created as a response to the 2008 financial crisis, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) significantly altered the financial system regulatory regime in the United States. Since its enactment, the financial services industry has been subject to increased regulation and oversight through enhanced federal government accountability and transparency measures. 

On May 24, 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (EGRRCPA) was signed into law, which repealed and amended certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, providing regulatory relief to smaller, less complex banking organizations primarily as it relates to enhanced prudential standards, and stress testing and liquidity requirements (discussed further below). In addition to amending the Dodd-Frank Act, EGRRCPA also modified other provisions regarding bank compliance, consumer protection, and securities laws, to which the federal banking agencies have issued certain corresponding guidance and proposed or final rules. 

Bank Holding Company Activities 

In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing, or controlling banks and other activities that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined to be closely related to banking. Bank holding companies that qualify and elect to become financial holding companies, such as Webster, may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system (as solely determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting, and merchant banking. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

Under the BHC Act, prior approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is required in order for any bank holding company to (i) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, (ii) acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. On January 30, 2020, the Federal Reserve System issued a final rule that revised its regulations related to determinations of whether a company has the ability to exercise a controlling influence over another company for purposes of the BHC Act, thereby expanding the number of presumptions for use in such determination and providing greater transparency on the types of relationships that the Federal Reserve System generally views as supporting a determination of control. The new rule became effective April 1, 2020. 

Pursuant to Section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), more commonly known as the Bank Merger Act, and for national banks relying on certain other sources of merger authority, prior written approval from a bank's primary federal regulator is required before any insured depository institution may consummate a merger transaction, which includes a merger, consolidation, assumption of deposit liabilities, and certain asset transfers between or among two or more institutions. Prior written approval of a bank's primary federal regulator is also required for merger transactions between or among affiliated institutions, as well as for merger transactions between or among non-affiliated institutions. Transactions that do not involve a transfer of deposit liabilities typically do not require prior approval under the Bank Merger Act, unless the transaction involves the acquisition of all or substantially all of an institution's assets. When evaluating and acting on proposed merger transactions, regulators consider the extent of existing competition between and among the merging institutions, other depository institutions, and other providers of similar or equivalent services in the relevant product and geographic markets, the convenience and needs of the community to be served, capital adequacy and earnings prospects, and the effectiveness the merger institutions in combating money-laundering activities, among other factors. 

Further, the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 generally prohibits any person, acting directly or indirectly or in concert with other persons, from acquiring control of a covered institution without providing at least 60 days prior written notice to the FDIC or upon receipt of written notice that the FDIC does not disapprove of the acquisition. 

On September 29, 2021, the Bank Merger Review Modernization Act of 2021 was introduced in Congress to amend the current bank merger processes and requirements under the FDIA. Among its provisions, the legislation would authorize the CFPB to deny bank merger applications if the new consolidated institution would not have adequate systems in place to ensure compliance with federal consumer laws. Other provisions would require federal banking agencies to perform a cost-benefit analysis and apply an enhanced competitive effects analysis for a proposed bank merger on the applicable banking markets as well as the performance of the merging institutions under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA). Following its introduction, the legislation was referred to committee and no further action thereon has occurred. Webster continues to monitor the status of this legislation to determine what impact, if any, its potential passage and entry into law may have on the Holding Company and Webster Bank. 

Capital Adequacy 

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the OCC, and the FDIC have adopted the regulatory capital standards in accordance with Basel III, as developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel III Capital Rules). The Basel III Capital Rules, which were fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, strengthened international capital standards by increasing institutions' minimum capital requirements and holdings of high quality liquid assets, and decreasing bank leverage. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, Webster's assets, exposures, and certain off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are subject to risk weights used to determine risk-weighted assets. Risk weights can range from 0% for U.S. government securities to 1,250% for certain tranches of complex securitization or equity exposures. Risk-weighted assets serve as the base against which regulatory capital is measured, and are used to calculate Webster's and Webster Banks' minimum capital ratios of CET1 capital to total risk-weighted assets (CET1 risk-based capital), Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets (Tier 1 risk-based capital), Total capital to total risk-weighted assets (Total risk-based capital), and Tier 1 capital to average tangible assets (Tier 1 leverage capital), as defined in the regulations, which Webster is required to maintain. CET1 capital consists of common shareholders' equity less deductions for goodwill and other intangible assets, and certain deferred tax adjustments. At the time of initial adoption of the Basel III Capital Rules, Webster had elected to opt-out of the requirement to include certain components of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in CET1 capital. Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 capital plus preferred stock. Total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital (as defined in the regulations). Tier 2 capital includes subordinated debt and the permissible portion of the ACL. 

The following table summarizes the ratio thresholds applicable to Webster pursuant to the Basel III Capital Rules: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Adequately Capitalized Well Capitalized CET1 risk-based capital 4.5% 6.5% Total risk-based capital 8.0 10.0 Tier 1 risk-based capital 6.0 8.0 Tier 1 leverage capital 4.0 5.0 ##TABLE_END

In addition, the Basel III Capital Rules mandate that most deductions from or adjustments to regulatory capital be made to CET1 capital, not to the other components. For instance, the deduction of mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets (DTAs), and capital investments in unconsolidated financial institutions is required to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 capital or exceeds 15% of CET1 capital in the aggregate. 

The Basel III Capital Rules also include a capital conservation buffer comprised entirely of CET1 capital, which is considered in addition to the 4.5% CET1 capital ratio, and is equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets for both Webster and Webster Bank. This buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress, and is generally required in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

On July 22, 2019, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that simplified the regulatory capital treatment for mortgage servicing assets, certain DTAs arising from temporary differences, investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, and the calculation of minority interest. These provisions were effective as of April 1, 2020. 

On August 26, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule that provided banking organizations that implemented Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 326, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (CECL) during 2020, the option to delay an estimate of CECL's effect on regulatory capital for two years ending on January 1, 2022, followed by a three-year transition period ending on December 31, 2024. Webster elected to utilize the 2020 capital transition relief and delayed the regulatory capital impact of adopting CECL. Both Webster Financial Corporation's and Webster Bank's ratios remain in excess of being well-capitalized, even without the benefit of the delayed CECL adoption impact. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

Pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA, the federal banking agencies are required to take prompt corrective action if an insured depository institution fails to meet certain capital adequacy standards. 

The following table summarizes the prompt corrective action categories: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Well Adequately Under Significantly Capitalized Capitalized Capitalized Under Capitalized CET1 risk-based capital 6.5 % 4.5 % &#60; 4.5% &#60; 3.0% Total risk-based capital 10.0 8.0 &#60; 8.0 &#60; 6.0 Tier 1 risk-based capital 8.0 6.0 &#60; 6.0 &#60; 4.0 Tier 1 leverage capital 5.0 4.0 &#60; 4.0 &#60; 3.0 ##TABLE_END

In addition, an insured depository institution with a ratio of tangible equity less than or equal to 2% is considered to be critically under capitalized. If an insured depository institution has been determined, after notice and opportunity for a heading, to be in an unsafe or unsound condition, or if it receives a less-than-satisfactory rating for asset quality, management, earnings, or liquidity in its most recent examination, the appropriate federal banking agency may downgrade a well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or under capitalized insured depository institution to the next lower capital category. 

All insured depository institutions, regardless of their capital category, are prohibited from making capital distributions or paying management fees if such distributions or payments would result in the insured depository institution becoming under capitalized, unless it is shown that the capital distribution would improve financial condition or the management fee is being paid to a person or entity without a controlling interest in the insured depository institution. Restrictions are placed on certain brokered deposit activity and on deposit rates offered as the capital category declines below well capitalized. Further, if an insured depository institution receives notice that it is under capitalized, significantly under capitalized, or critically under capitalized, the insured depository institution generally must file a written capital restoration plan with the appropriate federal banking agency within 45 days of receipt, and the bank holding company must guarantee the performance of that plan. 

Dividends 

The Holding Company is dependent upon dividends from Webster Bank to provide funds for its cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to shareholders. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to various federal and state regulatory limitations. Express approval by the OCC is required if the effect of dividends declared would cause the regulatory capital of the Bank to fall below specified minimum levels, or would exceed the net income for that year combined with the undistributed net income for the preceding two years. During the year ended December 31, 2021, Webster Bank paid $200.0 million in dividends to the Holding Company and had $508.0 million of undistributed net income available for the payment of dividends at December 31, 2021. 

In addition, federal banking regulators have the authority to prohibit Webster from engaging in safe or unsound practices in conducting its business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice, especially if its capital base is depleted to an inadequate level. The ability of Webster Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital requirements. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to establish enhanced prudential standards for larger bank holding companies. On October 10, 2019, pursuant to the enactment of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve Board, along with other federal bank regulatory agencies, adopted two rules outlining tailored prudential standards allowing bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or less, such as Webster Financial Corporation, to be exempt from certain enhanced capital and liquidity prudential standards imposed under Section 165, including company-run stress testing, capital planning, liquidity coverage ratio, and resolution planning requirements, among others. Although Webster Financial Corporation is no longer required to conduct company-run stress testing for itself and Webster Bank, the Company continues to perform certain stress tests internally and incorporates the economic models and information developed through its stress testing program into its risk management and capital planning activities, which continue to be subject to the regular supervisory processes of the Federal Reserve System and the OCC. 

In addition, under a prior rule issued by the Federal Reserve Board that implemented Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act's enhanced prudential standards, certain publicly traded bank holding companies are required to establish a risk committee that is responsible for the oversight of enterprise risk management (ERM) practices and that meets other statutory requirements. The EGRRCPA raised the threshold for mandatory application of the risk committee requirement from publicly traded bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets to $50 billion or more. Notwithstanding this change implemented by EGRRCPA, Webster has maintained its standing Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised of at least three independent directors. 

Volcker Rule 

Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule, prohibits banking entities, such as the Holding Company and Webster Bank, from (i) engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures, and options on these investments for their own account, and (ii) imposes limits on investments in, and other relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds. Like the Dodd-Frank Act, the Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities, and organizing and offering hedge funds or private equity funds. The Volcker rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker, or custodian. Banking entities with significant trading operations (those with $20 billion or more in average trading assets and liabilities) are required to establish a detailed compliance program to which their Chief Executive Officers are required to attest that the program is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the Volcker Rule. 

The EGRRCPA and subsequent promulgation of interagency rules have aimed to simplify and tailor the Volcker Rule's requirements. On June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve System, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FDIC, OCC, and SEC issued a final rule that modified the Volcker Rule's prohibition on banking entities investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds, known as covered funds. The final rule modifies three areas of the Volcker Rule by (i) streamlining the covered funds portion of the rule, (ii) addressing the extraterritorial treatment of certain foreign funds, and (iii) permitting banking entities to offer financial services and engage in other activities that do not raise concerns that the Volcker Rule was intended to address. The new rule became effective October 1, 2020. The Federal Reserve System had granted Webster an extension until July 21, 2022 to bring its holdings into compliance with the Volcker Rule. Webster dissolved its remaining holdings in illiquid covered funds during 2021 and is fully compliant with the Volcker Rule as of December 31, 2021. 

Federal Reserve System 

Federal Reserve System regulations require depository institutions to maintain reserves against its transaction accounts and non-personal time deposits for the purposes of implementing monetary policy. The reserve requirement must be satisfied in the form of vault cash and, if vault cash is insufficient, by maintaining a balance in an account at a Federal Reserve Bank (FRB). The Federal Reserve Act (FRA) authorizes different ranges of reserve requirement ratios depending on the amount of transaction account balances held at each depository institution. Pursuant to the FRA, a zero percent reserve requirement ratio shall be applied to total reservable liabilities that do not exceed a certain amount, known as the reserve requirement exemption amount. In addition, transaction account balances maintained over the reserve requirement exemption amount and up to a certain amount, known as the low reserve tranche, may be subject to a reserve requirement ratio of not more than 3 percent (and which may be zero), and transaction account balances over the low reserve tranche may be subject to a reserve requirement ratio of not more than 14 percent (and which may be zero). The reserve requirement exemption and the low reserve tranche are both subject to adjustment on an annual basis, as applicable, by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 

Effective March 26, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the reserve requirement ratios on all net transaction accounts were reduced to zero percent, thereby eliminating reserve requirements for all depository institutions. The annual indexation of the reserve requirement exemption amount and the low reserve tranche for 2021 was required by statute, but did not affect depository institutions' reserve requirements, which has remained at zero. 

Further, as a national bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, the Bank is required to subscribe to the capital stock of its district FRB in an amount equal to 6% of its capital and surplus, of which 50% is paid. The remaining 50% is subject to call by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2021, Webster Bank held an FRB of Boston stock investment of $60.5 million. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System provides a central credit facility for its member institutions. Webster Bank, as a member of the FHLB, is required to purchase and hold shares of FHLB capital stock for its membership and other activities in an amount equal to 0.35% of the aggregate principal amount of its unpaid residential mortgage loans and similar obligations at the beginning of each year, up to a maximum of $25 million, plus an amount that varies from 3.0% to 4.5% depending on the maturities of its FHLB advances, of which there were $11.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2021. Webster Bank was in compliance with these requirements at December 31, 2021, and held an FHLB of Boston stock investment of $11.3 million. 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act and Federal Reserve System regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial strength to their subsidiary banks and commit resources to support each of their subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when the Holding Company is not in a financial position to provide such resources without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. The Federal Reserve System may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank, or if it undertakes actions that the Federal Reserve System believes might jeopardize the bank holding company's ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank. Capital loans by banking holding companies to its subsidiary banks would be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other debts of the subsidiary bank. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if Webster Bank's capital stock is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the Holding Company. If the assessment is not paid within three months after receiving notice thereof, the OCC could order a sale of Webster Bank stock held to cover any deficiency. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

The federal banking agencies have adopted the rules and regulations under the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness pursuant to Section 39 of the FDIA, which are applicable to all insured depository institutions. These guidelines prescribe standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees, and benefits, asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation, as determined to be appropriate. If a federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any of the established standards, the agency may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. In the event that an institution fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time allowed, or fails, in any material respect, to implement an accepted plan, the agency must require the institution to correct the deficiency and may take other supervisory and enforcement actions until the deficiency is corrected. 

In more serious instances, enforcement actions may include (i) the issuance of directives to increase capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, (ii) the imposition of civil monetary penalties, (iii) the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced, (iv) the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution affiliated parties, (v) the termination of the insured depository institution&#8217;s deposit insurance, (vi) the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the insured depository institution, and (vii) injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the FDIC, as receiver, would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Transactions between insured depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the FRA and Federal Reserve Regulation W. In a bank holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a national bank, and any companies that are controlled by such parent holding company, are considered affiliates of the bank. Generally, sections 23A and 23B of the FRA are intended to protect insured depository institutions from losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates by (i) limiting the extent to which an institution or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate and with all affiliates in the aggregate, and (ii) requiring that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term covered transaction includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, the issuance of a guarantee, and similar types of transactions. Certain covered transactions must be collateralized according to a schedule set forth in the statue. 

In addition, Section 22(h) of the FRA and Federal Reserve Regulation O restricts loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders or insiders. Pursuant to Section 22(h), loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders must be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, except that such insiders may receive preferential loans made under a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to the institution's employees and does not give preference to the insider over the employees. Further, loans to insiders and their related interests may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated entities, the institution&#8217;s total capital and surplus. Loans to insiders above specified amounts must receive prior approval from the Company's Board of Directors. Section 22(g) of the FRA places additional limitations on loans to executive officers. 

Consumer Protection and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision 

The Dodd-Frank Act centralized the responsibility for consumer financial protection through the establishment of the CFPB, an independent agency charged with implementing, enforcing, and examining compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. As an insured depository institution with more than $10 billion in total assets, Webster Bank is subject to supervision by the CFPB. Webster is subject to a number of federal laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Practices Act, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, which is part of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt more stringent consumer protection laws and allows state attorneys general to enforce the consumer protection rules issued by the CFPB. 

In addition, the Truth in Lending Act requires creditors to make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay their mortgage loans prior to extending them credit. In making ability-to-repay determinations, creditors must consider numerous underwriting factors, as prescribed therein, and use reliable third-party records to verify the information they use to evaluate such factors. Alternatively, the creditor can originate qualified mortgages (QMs), which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. A QM is generally defined as a loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. The consumer is also required to have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. Further, the Truth in Lending Act provides a safe harbor for loans that satisfy the definition of a qualified mortgage and are not higher-priced and a rebuttable presumption for higher-priced mortgage loans. 

On December 10, 2020, the CFPB issued two final rules amending the ability-to-repay and QM rules of the Truth in Lending Act. The first replaces the existing 43% debt-to-income ratio limit in the General QM definition with price-based thresholds, among other changes, and the second creates a new category of QMs, called the Seasoned QM. A loan is eligible to become a Seasoned QM if the loan meets certain product restrictions at the end of the 36-month seasoning period, including (i) is secured by a first lien, (ii) has a fixed rate, (iii) has regular, substantially equal periodic payments that are fully amortizing, does not allow negative amortization, and does not have a balloon payment, (iv) the term does not exceed 30 years, and (v) is not a higher-priced mortgage. The first rule has a mandatory compliance date of October 1, 2022. The second rule applies to covered transactions for which institutions received an application after March 1, 2021, however due to the 36-month seasoning period, there was no immediate impact to Webster. 

In addition, on December 7, 2021, the CFPB issued a final rule amending Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act, to address the anticipated sunset of LIBOR for consumer financial products, which is expected to be discontinued for most U.S. Dollar (USD) tenors in June 2023. Specifically, the CFPB is amending: (i) the open-end and closed-end provisions to provide examples of replacement indices for LIBOR indices that meet certain Regulation Z standards, (ii) to permit creditors for home equity lines of credit and card issuers for credit card accounts to transition existing accounts that use a LIBOR index to a replacement index on or after April 1, 2022, if certain conditions are met, (iii) to address change-in-terms notice for home equity lines of credit and credit card accounts and how they apply to accounts transitioning away from using a LIBOR index, and (iv) to address how the rate reevaluation provisions applicable to credit card accounts apply to the transition from using a LIBOR index to a replacement index. 

For closed-end credit, the final rule identified certain SOFR-based spread-adjusted indices recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) for consumer products as examples to illustrate a reference rate that would be comparable to replace 1-month, 3-month, or 6-month tenors of USD LIBOR. For open-end credit, the final rule states that the chosen replacement index must have historical fluctuations that are substantially similar to those of the LIBOR index, and identifies certain SOFR-based spread-adjusted indices recommended by the ARRC for consumer products and the Prime rate as examples that meet this standard. However, the CFPB is reserving judgment about whether to include references to a 1-year USD LIBOR index and its replacement index until it obtains additional information. The final rule becomes effective April 1, 2022. 

Additional information regarding the LIBOR transition, including risk factors associated with its discontinuation and Webster's transition plan, can be found in Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and under the section captioned "LIBOR Transition" contained elsewhere in Part I - Item 1. Business 

Identity Theft 

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC jointly issued final rules and guidelines, implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, that required certain regulated entities to establish programs to address risks of identity theft. In accordance with these rules, financial institutions and creditors are required to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing accounts or the opening of new accounts. The rules include guidelines to assist entities in the formulation and maintenance of programs that would satisfy the requirements of the rules. Further, the rules established special requirements for any credit and debit card issuers that are subject to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC jurisdictions to assess the validity of notifications of changes of address under certain circumstances. Webster has an Identity Theft Prevention Program in place, which is approved by the Board of Directors, satisfying its compliance with these requirements. 

Financial Privacy and Data Security 

Webster is subject to federal and certain state laws and regulations containing consumer privacy and data protection provisions. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, along with the implemented regulations issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies, govern the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by financial institutions. Subject to certain exceptions, the Financial Privacy Rule of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act states that financial institutions are prohibited from disclosing nonpublic personal information about a consumer to nonaffiliated third parties, unless the institution satisfies various notice and opt-out requirements and the consumer has not elected to opt out of the disclosure. Regardless as to whether a financial institution shares nonpublic personal information, the institution must provide notice of its privacy policies and practices to its consumers, and must follow redisclosure and reuse limitations on any nonpublic personal information it receives from a nonaffiliated financial institution. 

In addition, the Safeguards Rule of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that each financial institution develops, implements, and maintains a comprehensive written information security program that is inclusive of certain prescribed elements and contains appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect consumer information. The federal banking regulatory agencies have also adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and programs to protect such information, with an increased focus on risk management and processes related to information technology, and the use of third-parties. The expectation from the federal banking regulatory agencies is that financial institutions have established lines of defense to ensure that their risk management processes address the risks posed by compromised customer credentials, and that the financial institution has sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure rapid recovery, resumption, and maintenance of operations after a cyber-attack. 

Pursuant to interpretive guidance issued under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain state data breach notification laws, financial institutions are required to notify customers of security breaches that result in unauthorized access to their nonpublic personal information. Further, on November 18, 2021, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the OCC, and the FDIC issued a final rule that requires a banking organization to notify its primary regulator of certain types of computer security incidents that result in harm to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits, as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after the banking organization determines that a notification incident has occurred. The final rule also requires a bank service provider to notify each affected banking organization customer as soon as possible when the bank service provider determines that is has experienced a computer-security incident that has caused, or is reasonably likely to cause, a material service disruption or degradation for four or more hours. The final rule becomes effective April 1, 2022, and compliance with the final rule is required by May 1, 2022. 

Back on October 19, 2016, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the OCC, and the FDIC approved an advance notice of proposed rulemaking inviting comment on a set of potential enhanced cybersecurity risk-management and resilience standards that would apply to large and interconnected entities under their supervision, as well as to services provided by third parties to these institutions. Although the comment period for these proposed rules had since closed, and a final rule has not yet been published, the proposed rules were considered to apply to depository institutions and depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, which includes Webster effective February 1, 2022. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, including the Bank, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, would have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the Holding Company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Federal Deposit Insurance 

The standard deposit insurance coverage limit is $250,000 per depositor, per FDIC-insured bank, for each account ownership category. The Federal Deposit Insurance Fund is funded mainly through quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions, such as Webster Bank, and provides insurance coverage for certain deposits up to this maximum amount. 

Webster Bank's assessment is calculated in accordance with the FDIC's standardized risk-based methodology by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base, which are determined and paid each quarter. The assessment base equals the Bank's average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity during the assessment period. As a large bank, or generally one with $10 billion or more in assets, Webster Bank is assigned an individual rate based on a scorecard, which combines CAMELS (capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity) component ratings, financial measures used to measure a bank's ability to withstand asset-related and funding-related stress, and a measure of loss severity that estimates the relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the bank's failure, to produce a score that is then converted to an assessment rate. Assessment rates could be subject to adjustment by the FDIC. For instance, assessment rates decrease for issuance of long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt and subordinated debt, increase for holdings of long-term unsecured or subordinated debt issued by other banks, and increase for significant holdings of brokered deposits for large banks that are not well-rated or not well-capitalized. 

Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate a depository institution's deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound, or that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. Webster&#8217;s management is not aware of any practice, violation, or condition that might lead to the termination of its deposit insurance. 

Debit Card Interchange Fees 

The Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange transaction fee that an issuer may receive or charge with respect to an electronic debit transaction shall be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction, and imposes requirements regarding routing and exclusivity of electronic debit transactions and the usability of debit cards across networks. Pursuant to the Durbin Amendment, interchange fees for certain electronic debit transactions are capped at 21 cents plus 0.05% of the transaction value for issuers with over $10 billion in consolidated assets, such as Webster Bank. The regulation also allows covered issuers to receive 1 cent per transaction for fraud-prevention costs, provided that the issuer meets the fraud-prevention standards established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. HSA Bank's interchange revenue is not subject to these rules. 

Incentive Compensation 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines for covered financial institutions with at least $1 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Holding Company and the Bank, to prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits that could lead to a material financial loss to the institution. A proposed rule was issued in 2016, which has not yet been finalized. If the rules are adopted in the form initially, they will restrict the manner in which executive compensation is presently structured. 

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws 

Webster Bank has a responsibility under the CRA to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products or services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. In connection with its examination, the OCC assesses Webster Bank&#8217;s record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. The Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities, as well as the activities of Webster. Further, the Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions against it by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB and the Department of Justice. Webster Bank received a CRA rating of Outstanding in its most recent examination. 

On June 5, 2020, the OCC adopted a final rule to strengthen and modernize the CRA by clarifying and expanding the activities that qualify for CRA credit, updating where activities count for CRA credit, creating a more consistent and objective method for evaluating CRA performance, and providing for more timely and transparent CRA-related data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting. The final rule took effect on October 1, 2020, and Webster Bank was required to comply with several of the more material components by January 1, 2023. However, on December 14, 2021, the OCC adopted a final rule that rescinded the June 2020 CRA rule (discussed above) and replaced it with a rule that is largely based on the 1995 CRA rules, as amended, that were issued by the OCC, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and FDIC. This final rule applies to national banks and savings institutions, and is intended to facilitate the ongoing interagency work to modernize the CRA regulatory framework and promote consistency for all insured depository institutions. All banks are required to comply with the final rules by January 1, 2022, except for the public file and public notice requirements, which have a compliance date of April 1, 2022. There was no adverse impact to the Bank's CRA compliance under the final rule, but Webster will continue to monitor its developments and assess the impact of further changes, if any, to CRA regulations proposed by the OCC, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and FDIC. 

USA PATRIOT Act 

Under Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Requirement to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), all financial institutions are required to take certain measures to identify their customers, prevent money laundering, monitor customer transactions, and report suspicious activity to U.S. law enforcement agencies. Financial institutions also are required to respond to requests for information from federal banking agencies and law enforcement agencies. Information sharing among financial institutions for the above purposes is encouraged by an exemption granted to complying financial institutions from the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other privacy laws. Financial institutions that hold correspondent accounts for foreign banks or provide private banking services to foreign individuals are required to take measures to avoid dealing with certain foreign individuals or entities, including foreign banks with profiles that raise money laundering concerns, and are prohibited from dealing with foreign &#8220;shell banks&#8221; and persons from jurisdictions of particular concern. The primary federal banking agencies and the Secretary of the Treasury have adopted regulations to implement several of these provisions. All financial institutions also are required to establish internal anti-money laundering programs. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution under the Bank Merger Act. Webster has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act compliance program and engages in very few transactions of any kind with foreign financial institutions or foreign persons. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury is responsible for administering economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nations, and others. The OFAC-administered sanctions take many different forms, and generally contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). OFAC also publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring, or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Block Persons. Blocked assets (i.e., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from the OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 

Risk Management Framework 

Webster defines risk as the potential that events, expected or unexpected, may have an adverse effect on its earnings, capital, or enterprise value. Webster maintains a structured ERM framework that provides an integrated, forward-looking approach to identifying, prioritizing, and managing key risk categories across the organization, including strategic, financial (treasury and accounting), information, credit, operational, compliance, legal, and reputational risk. 

Executive management sets the tone and culture towards ERM through strategy setting, formulating objectives, approving resource allocations, and establishing and maintaining effective systems of internal controls. A strong risk culture is the foundation of effective ERM because it influences the decisions of management and employees when weighing risks and benefits. Management also encourages and supports risk self-identification and timely escalation throughout the organization. 

A three line of defense model is utilized with regard to Webster&#8217;s risk management: 

First Line: Line of Business Units 

Line of business units have responsibility for identifying, assessing, escalating, controlling, and mitigating risks inherent to their core business activities arising from their chosen strategy and ongoing operations. 

Second Line: Risk Management Functions 

Risk management functions operate independent of the line of business and facilitate development and implementation of risk management practices, provide risk guidance and assist the lines of business in identification and mitigation of risk, monitor adequacy of risk responses and timeliness of remediation, and perform control testing. 

Third Line: Independent Control Functions 

Reporting directly to the Board of Directors, the independent control functions (i.e., Internal Audit, Credit Risk Review) perform assessments and evaluations of risk management practices and internal controls, identify issues, make recommendations, and inform the Board of Directors and executive management on matters that require remediation. 

Risk identification is a continuous process and occurs at the transaction, portfolio, and enterprise levels. Approaches used to identify risk include workshops, interviews, process analysis, key risk indicators, risk assessment and data analysis. Identified risks are assessed based on qualitative and quantitative factors to understand the likelihood that such events will occur and the degree to which they will impact Webster&#8217;s ability to achieve its strategic and business objectives if they occur. Risk assessments, which are performed by the first or second line of defense functions, evaluate inherent risk (likelihood and impact) and existing controls (control environment) to arrive at residual risk. 

Webster&#8217;s risk appetite statement provides guidance to management regarding the nature and level of residual risk that Webster is willing to take in pursuit of its objectives. The appetite balances a qualitative risk appetite statement, which is approved annually by the Board of Directors, with quantitative metrics in the form of corporate-level and business-level scorecards comprising key risk indicators with established risk tolerance levels. Tolerance levels are periodically reviewed by the respective oversight committees to ensure the alignment of risk appetite with Webster&#8217;s risk profile. 

Webster has established operating and oversight structures including policies, processes, people, and control/oversight systems that support risk-related decision making designed to ensure appropriate authority, accountability, independence, and clarity of roles and responsibilities. The Board of Directors oversees Webster's ERM approach to risk management and delegates its authority to Webster's Risk Committee to provide oversight and effective challenge. Along with assisting the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding Webster's ERM program, the Risk Committee, which is comprised of at least three independent Directors, is responsible for reviewing information regarding Webster's policies, procedures, and practices relating to risk. The Chief Risk Officer has the primary responsibility for the design and implementation of Webster's risk management framework. 

The Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC), which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, is the management committee responsible for overseeing Webster's risk management process, including monitoring the severity, direction, and trend of risks relative to business strategies and market conditions, assessing management&#8217;s ability to manage and mitigate risks, and ensuring implementation of Webster's risk appetite and strategy. It also directly oversees strategic risk and reputational risk, and reviews identified emerging risks to Webster. The ERMC has six subcommittees: (i) the Operational Risk Management Committee, (ii) the Credit Risk Management Committee, (iii) the Asset Liability Committee, (iv) the Information Risk Committee, (v) the Regulatory Oversight Committee, and (vii) the Litigation Risk Management Committee. The ERMC subcommittees aggregate and report risk information using established taxonomies and rating methodologies, which categorize risk data based on shared characteristics in order to assess risks on a common scale, and regularly report and submit their findings to the ERMC and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Strategic Risk 

Strategic risk is comprised of (i) strategic development risk, or the inability to define the vision, understand the environment, or formulate a strategy, as well as the types and amount of risk inherent in carrying out the strategy and achieving the desired business objectives, and (ii) strategic execution risk, or the inability to translate strategy from theoretical into action from the failure to allocate resources to sustain the strategy and/or the failure to adapt to changes. Webster maintains an active strategic planning process that is long-term oriented and continuously refined to respond to changes in the operating environment. ERM and the line of business risk managers, in consultation with the respective executives, perform an annual long range plan assessment of Webster's strategic choices and initiatives in order to understand and communicate to the Board of Directors the impact on Webster's risk profile from management's execution of the long range plan. Webster's long-range plan, which is developed by the Operating Management Committee to align with Webster's risk appetite, capital and liquidity requirements, is subject to annual review and approval by the Board of Directors, as well as significant strategic actions, such as mergers and acquisitions or key strategic partnerships, as they arise. 

Financial Risk 

Financial risk is comprised of (i) accounting risk, or the risk that arises from the inability to maintain a high integrity financial reporting process, ensure compliance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and regulatory guidelines, disclosure of appropriate information, and align financial goals with tax efficiency planning, and (ii) treasury risk, or the risk of capital levels falling below supervisory expectations, that interest rate changes could contribute to a reduction in earnings or net worth, and decreases or changes in funding sources impacting the ability to efficiently liquidate assets. While we recognize that we cannot control or predict external factors that may affect Webster's financial resources, management can make prudent decisions to mitigate the financial impact. Webster's accounting and interest rate, capital, and liquidity financial risk programs are respectively managed by the Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. 

The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), a subcommittee of ERMC, is responsible for the oversight, management, and strategic direction of interest rate risk, liquidity, capital, balance sheet composition (in conjunction with the Credit Risk Management Committee), and pricing. The Treasurer serves as the chair of ALCO, or the Asset/Liability Management Manager in the absence of the Treasurer. Other members include the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Director of Financial Planning and Analysis, Wholesale Bank Manager, Funding Manager, and the Head of Commercial Bank. 

Information Risk 

Information risk is comprised of (i) information security risk, or the risk of unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, perusal, inspection, recording, or destruction of electronic or physical data, and (ii) informational technology risk, or the risk that systems handing information and process flows may not meet quality and efficiency standards in line with industry, customer, and regulatory expectations, or may fail causing outages, or that new systems may not be implemented in a timely manner. The increased use of technology to store and process information, particularly the ability to conduct financial transactions on mobile devices and cloud technologies, exposes Webster to moderate risk of potential operational disruption or information security incidents, whether caused by deliberate or accidental acts. Webster is committed to preventing, detecting, and responding timely to incidents that may impact the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets through its robust information security and technology risk programs, which are managed under the direction of the Chief Information Security Officer and Director of CIO Governance. 

The Information Risk Committee, a subcommittee of ERMC, is responsible for overseeing information technology and security risk, including technology risk and cybersecurity, and for reviewing the development, implementation, and maintenance of Webster&#8217;s Information Security Program and its related comprehensive set of technology policies, which align with regulatory guidance and industry standards. The Director of Information Technology serves as the chair of the Information Risk Committee, and its members include the Chief Information Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Chief Information Security Officer. 

Credit Risk 

Credit risk is defined as the risk of customer or counterparty default due to their lack of willingness or ability to meet financial obligations. Sources of credit risk could include concentrations, deal structure, asset quality, and collateral values. Webster mitigates credit risk within its loan, investment, and derivative portfolios through established credit policies, underwriting guidelines, portfolio management, and troubled asset monitoring tools in order to limit its exposure to default. Credit approval and reporting requirements are also implemented to ensure proper risk identification, decision rationale, risk ratings, and disclosure of policy exceptions. The credit risk management program is led by the Chief Credit Officer along with a team of credit executives who are independent of the loan production and treasury functions. 

The Credit Risk Management Committee, a subcommittee of the ERMC, is responsible for oversight and management of credit risk across the organization at Webster. It qualitatively and quantitatively assesses credit risk and provides a point of view regarding the overall risk profile and asset mix of the portfolio to support strategic decision making. It also shares credit risk information as it relates to business line strategy, policy, practices, and controls. The Chief Credit Officer serves as the chair of the Credit Risk Management Committee, and its members include both risk and line of business representatives. 

Operational and Compliance Risks 

Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or external events. At Webster, the category of operational risk includes third party, business operations (process), fraud, human capital, model, and physical security. The operational risk management program is predominantly focused on developing and implementing tools for assessing business operations risk (process design, execution, and documentation). Other operational risks associated with people, systems, and external events are managed through a combination of first and second line defense programs under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, and Chief Risk Officer. The Operational Risk Management Committee, a subcommittee of the ERMC, oversees and provides credible challenge on operational risks facing the organization, along with mitigation programs and strategies for these risks. In addition, the Operational Risk Management Committee establishes tolerance levels for the most significant operational risks and monitors performance against them. The Director of Enterprise and Operational Risk Management and the Senior Operational Risk Manager serve as co-chairs of the Operational Risk Management Committee, and its members include representatives from the corporate functions and lines of business. 

Compliance risk is defined as the risk of non-compliance with banking laws and regulations, including new regulations and changes to existing regulations, and the associated harm to consumers and customers. The Regulatory Oversight Committee, a subcommittee of the ERMC, is responsible for overseeing Webster's compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to, anti-money laundering, fair and responsible banking, lending, privacy, deposit, and investments. The Director of Corporate Compliance serves has the chair of the Regulatory Oversight Committee, and its members include representatives from the Chief Risk Officer group, legal department, and lines of business. 

Legal and Reputational Risks 

Legal risk is defined as the financial or reputational exposure resulting from either bank-initiated or third-party initiated litigation (whether due to civil or criminal liability, or regulatory action) and the risk that Webster's governance structure is inadequate to facilitate Board oversight of company activities to ensure alignment with regulatory guidelines and stakeholder expectations. Reputational risk is defined as the risk that Webster loses customers, employees, or business partners due to negative public and/or market perception or improper business practices, and the ability to effectively compete. 

The Litigation Risk Management Committee, a subcommittee of the ERMC, oversees Webster's litigation risk management. The primary responsibility of the Litigation Risk Management Committee is to collect and review information on all pending litigation deemed to present material risk to Webster as a whole or any of its constituent entities. Other responsibilities include reviewing and making recommendations regarding the litigation related standards and procedures at Webster to ensure such do not increase the magnitude for likelihood of litigation risk, as well as identifying, monitoring, and reporting on emerging trends in litigation and developments in the law relating to Webster's conduct of business. General Counsel serves as the chair of the Litigation Risk Management Committee, and its members include the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Accounting Officer or Controller, and Chief Financial Officer. 

Additional information regarding risks and uncertainties, along with relevant risk factors that could impact Webster's business, results of operations, or financial condition can be found in Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors and throughout Part II of this report. 

LIBOR Transition 

Webster established a LIBOR transition plan in 2019 commensurate with identified LIBOR transition risks and exposures, which is aligned with regulatory guidance and ARRC best practices. Management continues to execute according to its LIBOR transition plan, addressing emerging issues and risks as they arise, while closely monitoring legislative and regulatory guidance associated with the LIBOR transition. 

Accordingly, Webster has set up a governance structure to ensure risks and issues are appropriately discussed and resolved. This involves a senior management level working group, an executive management level Steering Committee, and regular updates to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The working group, along with a transition and project manager, direct the execution of the transition activities on a day-to-day basis. Webster has also engaged an external advisor to assist. 

Webster has adopted the SOFR rate and related conventions associated with the product line as the LIBOR replacement index and ARRC recommended fallback language for impacted contracts, as well as the recommended spread adjustments for legacy loans and/or derivative products. The Bank continues to work with applicable vendors to ensure the impacted loan, security, and derivative applications are updated to support the processing of SOFR-based products and related conventions over a timeline consistent with regulatory guidance and Webster&#8217;s transition plan. The Bank began offering SOFR-based loans and derivatives to its customers in October 2021. As of January 1, 2022, Webster no longer originates new contracts using any LIBOR index, as defined by regulatory guidance. 

Available Information 

Webster files reports with the SEC, and makes available, free of charge, on its internet website (www.wbst.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information contained on Webster's website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

