 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the risk factor set forth below and the information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the disclosure regarding the risks and uncertainties related to the Company&#8217;s business under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K. There has been no material changes to the Company&#8217;s risk factors as presented in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K, other than the risk factors set forth below: 

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have had and may continue to impact the Company&#8217;s businesses, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations, and the extent and duration of these impacts depend on future developments, which remain uncertain and cannot be predicted. A second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic may have a similar or worse impact on the Company than the first wave, and a safe and effective vaccine may not become widely available for some time. The COVID-19 pandemic and governmental responses to the pandemic have had and will likely continue to have a severe impact on global economic conditions, including disruption and volatility in the financial markets, disruption of global supply chains, temporary closures or failures of businesses, increased unemployment, and the imposition of social distancing and restrictions on movement in the U.S. and other countries. 

East West Bank is considered an essential business in the eight states where we have branches or office locations. As part of the CARES Act passed by Congress in March 2020, various initiatives to protect and support individuals, businesses and local economies, such as the SBA PPP and the Main Street Lending Program were established. The Company participated in the SBA PPP, which was available until August 8, 2020, and is currently participating in facilitating the forgiveness process. Further, the Company is a participant in the Main Street Lending Program. In addition, to provide further relief to customers during these turbulent times, we are providing loan modifications and payment deferrals for customers impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and deferring foreclosures on certain residential mortgage loans consistent with state laws. Our loan portfolio includes loans that are in forbearance but which are not classified as TDRs due to the exclusions provided in the CARES Act and federal banking regulators. In the future, we may be required to classify a portion of these loans as TDRs. In addition, the Company&#8217;s participation in and execution of measures taken by governments and regulatory authorities could subject us to increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny, negative publicity or increased exposure to litigation, which could increase our operational, legal and compliance costs and damage our reputation. There can be no assurance that the current or any new federal stimulus measures will improve the markets or economies in which we conduct operations. If the federal stimulus measures are not effective in mitigating the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, credit issues for our loan customers may be severe and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition more substantially over a longer period of time. 

The Company has begun to implement its return to the office plan. A portion of our U.S. employees have returned to the office and have started their pre-pandemic routines, including business travel with safety guidelines. All of our employees in Asia are back to the office. We have prepared all East West Bank facilities with employee safety protocols, including personal protection equipment, visual safety reminders related to social distancing, social distancing markers, temperature checks and sanitary products. While the Company is reopening its offices, some of our corporate office employees continue to work remotely or to work on a rotational schedule. However, a resurgence or a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic may negatively affect our ability to provide services due to increased illnesses among our employees, quarantines, new &#8220;stay-at-home&#8221; orders or other restrictions on our employees, or the safety measures implemented to prevent illnesses of our employees, including the potential closure of particular branches and certain employees working remotely. 

We may face increased cybersecurity risks due to the shifting of a majority of our corporate and division office functions to operating remotely in regions impacted by &#8220;stay-at-home&#8221; orders. Increased levels of remote access may create additional opportunities for cybercriminals to attempt to exploit vulnerabilities, and our employees may be more susceptible to phishing and social engineering attempts due to increased stress caused by the crisis and from balancing family and work responsibilities at home. In addition, our technological resources may be strained due to the number of remote users. 

The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to adversely affect the ability of the Company&#8217;s borrowers to satisfy their obligations. Taken into consideration that many of the Company&#8217;s loans are secured by real estate, a potential decline in real estate markets could further impact the Company&#8217;s business and financial condition and the credit quality of the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio. If unemployment continues to rise and our customers experience credit deterioration, including inability to pay their loans as they come due or a decrease in the value of collateral and/or higher than usual draws on outstanding lines of credit, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses could continue to increase. Further, the disruptions related to COVID-19 pandemic may decrease our borrowers&#8217; confidence with respect to purchasing real estate or homes and adversely affect the demand for the Company&#8217;s loans and other products and services, the valuation of our loans, securities, derivatives portfolios, goodwill and intangible, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations. 

In addition, the unprecedented developments and reports relating to COVID-19 have contributed to heightened volatility in financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide. The continuation of prolonged adverse economic conditions (including whether due to a resurgence or a second wave of COVID-19 infections) primarily in the U.S. and/or Greater China can be expected to have adverse effects on the Company&#8217;s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, which could have material impacts on the value of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments which the Company owns. The Company executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks and investment banks. Defaults by financial services institutions and uncertainty in the financial services industry in general could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and may expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparties or clients and further increase the possibility of downgrades in the Company&#8217;s credit ratings. This pandemic, and any further measures undertaken by governmental authorities to address it, could significantly disrupt or prevent us from operating our business in the ordinary course for an extended period, and thereby, and/or along with any associated economic and/or social instability or distress, have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the earnings impact from recent and continued emergency interest rate cuts could further compress interest margins, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and a resultant or prolonged economic downturn continue to impact our business, results of operations and financial condition is uncertain and will depend on numerous evolving factors that are outside our control and we may not be able to accurately predict, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the governmental, business and individual actions in response to the pandemic, the impact of those actions on global economic activities, as well as the pace of economic recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as global economic conditions more generally, it may also heighten many of the other risk factors described in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Form 10-K. 

