RISK MANAGEMENT Market / Interest Rate Risk The financial results and capital levels of the Corporation are constantly exposed to market, interest rate and liquidity risks. Market risk refers to the risk of a reduction in the Corporation’s capital due to changes in the market valuation of its assets and/or liabilities. Most of the assets subject to market valuation risk are debt securities classified as available-for-sale. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the debt securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios. Debt securities classified as available-for-sale amounted to $16.7 billion as of December 31, 2023. Other assets subject to market risk include loans held-for-sale, which amounted to $4 million, mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) which amounted to $118 million, and securities classified as “trading”, which amounted to $32 million, as of December 31, 2023. Interest Rate Risk (“IRR”) The Corporation’s net interest income is subject to various categories of interest rate risk, including repricing, basis, yield curve and option risks. In managing interest rate risk, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. Interest rate risk management is an active process that encompasses monitoring loan and deposit flows complemented by investment and funding activities. Effective management of interest rate risk begins with understanding the dynamic characteristics of assets and liabilities and determining the appropriate rate risk position given line of business forecasts, management objectives, market expectations and policy constraints. Management utilizes various tools to assess IRR, including Net Interest Income (“NII”) simulation modeling, static gap analysis, and Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”). The three methodologies complement each other and are used jointly in the evaluation of the Corporation’s IRR. NII simulation modeling is prepared for a five-year period, which in conjunction with the EVE analysis, provides management a better view of long-term IRR. Net interest income simulation analysis performed by legal entity and on a consolidated basis is a tool used by the Corporation in estimating the potential change in net interest income resulting from hypothetical changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is calculated using a simulation model which incorporates actual balance sheet figures detailed by maturity and interest yields or costs. Management assesses interest rate risk by comparing various NII simulations under different interest rate scenarios that differ in direction of interest rate changes, the degree of change and the projected shape of the yield curve. For example, the types of rate scenarios processed during the quarter include flat rates, implied forwards, and parallel and non-parallel rate shocks. Management also performs analyses to isolate and measure basis and prepayment risk exposures. The asset and liability management group performs validation procedures on various assumptions used as part of the simulation analyses as well as validations of results on a monthly basis. In addition, the model and processes used to assess IRR are subject to independent validations according to the guidelines established in the Model Governance and Validation policy. The Corporation processes NII simulations under interest rate scenarios in which the yield curve is assumed to rise and decline by the same magnitude (parallel shifts). The rate scenarios considered in these market risk simulations include instantaneous parallel changes of -100, -200, +100, and +200 basis points during the succeeding twelve-month period. Simulation analyses are based on many assumptions, including that the balance sheet remains flat, the relative levels of market interest rates across all yield curve points and indexes, interest rate spreads, loan prepayments and deposit elasticity. Thus, they should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results. Further, the estimates do not contemplate actions that management could take to respond to changes in interest rates. Additionally, the Corporation is also subject to basis risk in the repricing of its assets and liabilities, including the basis related to using different rate indexes for the repricing of assets and liabilities, as well as the effect of pricing lags which may be contractual or due to historical differences in the timing of management responses to changes in the rate environment. By their nature, these forward-looking computations are only estimates and may be different from what may actually occur in the future. The following table presents the results of the simulations at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, assuming a static balance sheet and parallel changes over flat spot rates over a one-year time horizon: he table above have been adjusted from those reported in the Corporation’s 2022 Form 10-K to reflect the effect of changes in certain modeling assumptions in down rate scenario simulations for certain variable rate loans. Specifically, the yield on certain variable rate loans that did not have contractual periodic floors, were not repricing according to the terms of those variable rate loans in the down rate simulations. Although the adjustment referred to in the preceding paragraph results in the magnitude of the Corporation’s sensitivity to decreases in interest rates becoming lower, as of December 31, 2022, the adjusted NII simulations continued to show that the Corporation had a neutral to slightly liability sensitive position driven by the rapid increase in short-term interest rates throughout 2022. As of December 31, 2023, NII simulations show the Corporation has a neutral to slightly asset sensitive position as compared to a slightly liability sensitive position as of December 31, 2022. The primary reasons for the variation in sensitivity are changes in balance sheet composition driven by an increase in overnight Fed Funds, short-term U.S Treasury Bills (“T-Bills”) and loan portfolio on the asset side partially offset by higher Puerto Rico public sector deposits which are indexed to market rates and an increase in time deposits. These results suggest that changes in the Corporation’s net interest income sensitivity are driven by changes in the composition of the investment portfolio as the term bond portfolio continues to run off and get reinvested in short-term investments such as T-Bills, combined with the increase of approximately $3.0 billion in loans held in portfolio. Additionally, variation in liability cost, primarily driven by Puerto Rico public sector deposits that represented $18.1 billion or 28% of deposits as of December 31, 2023, as well as an increase of approximately $1.7 billion in time deposits, also impact the sensitivity profile. In declining rate scenarios net interest income would slightly increase as the decline in the cost of these deposit generates a greater benefit than the changes in assets yields. In rising rate scenarios, Popular’s net interest income is also impacted by its large proportion of Puerto Rico public sector deposit, however the repricing of assets as they either reset or mature lead to an increase in net interest income. The Corporation’s loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a thirdparty to repay debt obligations prior to maturity. Prepayment risk also could have a significant impact on the duration of mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations since prepayments could shorten (or lower prepayments could extend) the weighted average life of these portfolios. Trading The Corporation engages in trading activities in the ordinary course of business at its subsidiaries, BPPR and Popular Securities. Popular Securities’ trading activities consist primarily of market-making activities to meet expected customers’ needs related to its retail brokerage business, and purchases and sales of U.S. Government and government sponsored securities with the objective of realizing gains from expected short-term price movements. BPPR’s trading activities consist primarily of holding U.S. Government sponsored mortgage-backed securities classified as “trading” and hedging the related market risk with “TBA” (to-be-announced) market transactions. The objective is to derive spread income from the portfolio and not to benefit from short-term market movements. In addition, BPPR uses forward contracts or TBAs to hedge its securitization pipeline. Risks related to variations in interest rates and market volatility are hedged with TBAs that have characteristics similar to that of the forecasted security and its conversion timeline. At December 31, 2023, the Corporation held trading securities with a fair value of $32 million, representing approximately 0.05% of the Corporation’s total assets, compared with $28 million and 0.04%, respectively, at December 31, 2022. As shown in Table 15, the trading portfolio consists principally of mortgage-backed securities and U.S. Treasuries, which at December 31, 2023 were investment grade securities. The Corporation’s trading activities are limited by internal policies. For each of the two subsidiaries, the market risk assumed under trading activities is measured by the 5-day net value-at-risk (“VAR”), with a confidence level of 99%. The VAR measures the maximum estimated loss that may occur over a 5-day holding period, given a 99% probability. The Corporation’s trading portfolio had a 5-day VAR of approximately $0.3 million for the last week in December 31, 2023. There are numerous assumptions and estimates associated with VAR modeling, and actual results could differ from these assumptions and estimates. Backtesting is performed to compare actual results against maximum estimated losses, in order to evaluate model and assumptions accuracy. In the opinion of management, the size and composition of the trading portfolio does not represent a significant source of market risk for the Corporation. Derivatives Derivatives may be used by the Corporation as part of its overall interest rate risk management strategy to minimize significant unexpected fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that are caused by interest rate volatility. Derivative instruments that the Corporation may use include, among others, interest rate caps, indexed options, and forward contracts. The Corporation does not use highly leveraged derivative instruments in its interest rate risk management strategy. Credit risk embedded in these transactions is reduced by requiring appropriate collateral from counterparties and entering into netting agreements whenever possible. All outstanding derivatives are recognized in the Corporation’s Consolidated Statements of Condition at their fair value. Refer to Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Corporation’s involvement in derivative instruments and hedging activities. Foreign Exchange The Corporation holds an interest in BHD León in the Dominican Republic, which is an investment accounted for under the equity method. The Corporation’s carrying value of the equity interest in BHD León approximated $ 225.9 million at December 31, 2023. This business is conducted in the country’s foreign currency. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustment, from operations for which the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statements of condition, except for highlyinflationary environments in which the effects would be included in the consolidated statements of operations. At December 31, 2023, the Corporation had approximately $ 65 million in an unfavorable foreign currency translation adjustment as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), compared with an unfavorable adjustment of $ 57 million at December 31, 2022 and $ 67 million at December 31, 2021. Liquidity The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that the Corporation has sufficient liquidity to meet all of its financial obligations, finance expected future growth, fund planned capital distributions and maintain a reasonable safety margin for cash needs under both normal and stressed market conditions. The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing the Corporation’s tolerance for liquidity risk, including approving relevant risk limits and policies. The Board of Directors has delegated the monitoring of these risks to the Board’s Risk Management Committee and the Asset/Liability Management Committee. The management of liquidity risk, on a long-term and day-to-day basis, is the responsibility of the Corporate Treasury Division. The Corporation’s Corporate Treasurer is responsible for implementing the policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and for monitoring the Corporation’s liquidity position on an ongoing basis. Also, the Corporate Treasury Division coordinates corporate wide liquidity management strategies and activities with the reportable segments, oversees policy breaches and manages the escalation process. The Financial and Operational Risk Management Division is responsible for the independent monitoring and reporting of adherence with established policies. An institution’s liquidity may be pressured if, for example, it experiences a sudden and unexpected substantial cash outflow due deposit outflows, whether due to a loss of confidence by depositors, or other reasons, including exogenous events such as the COVID-19 pandemic, a downgrading of its credit rating, or some other event that causes counterparties to avoid exposure to the institution. Factors that the Corporation does not control, such as the economic outlook, adverse ratings of its principal markets, perceptions of the financial services industry and regulatory changes, could also affect its ability to obtain funding. The Corporation has adopted policies and limits to monitor the Corporation’s liquidity position and that of its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, contingency funding plans are used to model various stress events of different magnitudes and affecting different time horizons that assist management in evaluating the size of the liquidity buffers needed if those stress events occur. However, such models may not predict accurately how the market and customers might react to every event, and are dependent on many assumptions. Deposits, including customer deposits, brokered deposits and public funds deposits, continue to be the most significant source of funds for the Corporation, funding 90% of the Corporation’s total assets at December 31, 2023 and 91% at December 31, 2022. The ratio of total ending loans to deposits was 55% at December 31, 2023 and 52% at December 31, 2022. In addition to traditional deposits, the Corporation maintains borrowing arrangements, which amounted to approximately $1.1 billion in outstanding balances at December 31, 2023 (December 31, 2022 - $1.4 billion). A detailed description of the Corporation’s borrowings, including their terms, is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements provide information on the Corporation’s cash inflows and outflows. The following sections provide further information on the Corporation’s major funding activities and needs, as well as the risks involved in these activities. Banking Subsidiaries Primary sources of funding for the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries (BPPR and PB or, collectively, “the banking subsidiaries”) include retail, commercial and public sector deposits, brokered deposits, unpledged investment securities, mortgage loan securitization and, to a lesser extent, loan sales. In addition, the Corporation maintains borrowing facilities with the FHLB and at the discount window of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “FRB”) and has a considerable amount of collateral pledged that can be used to raise funds under these facilities. During the fourth quarter of 2023 the Corporation had no material incremental use of its available liquidity sources. At December 31, 2023, the Corporation’s available liquidity increased to $19.5 billion from $17.0 billion on December 31, 2022. The liquidity sources of the Corporation at December 31, 2023 are presented in Table 16: Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of the Corporation’s borrowing facilities available through its banking subsidiaries. The principal uses of funds for the banking subsidiaries include loan originations, investment portfolio purchases, loan purchases and repurchases, repayment of outstanding obligations (including deposits), advances on certain serviced portfolios and operational expenses. Also, the banking subsidiaries assume liquidity risk related to collateral posting requirements for certain activities mainly in connection with contractual commitments, recourse provisions, servicing advances, derivatives and credit card licensing agreements. The banking subsidiaries maintain sufficient funding capacity to address large increases in funding requirements such as deposit outflows. The Corporation has established liquidity guidelines that require the banking subsidiaries to 30 POPULAR, INC. 2023 ANNUAL REPORT have sufficient liquidity to cover all short-term borrowings and a portion of deposits. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits, excluding brokered deposits, depends on various factors, including pricing, service, convenience and financial stability as reflected by operating results and financial condition, credit ratings (by nationally recognized credit rating agencies), customer confidence, and importantly, FDIC deposit insurance coverage. Deposits at all of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are federally insured (subject to FDIC limits) and this is expected to mitigate the potential effect of the aforementioned risks. Deposits are a key source of funding. Refer to Table 8 for a breakdown of deposits by major types. Core deposits are generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and public sector customers. Core deposits include certificate of deposit under $250,000, all interest-bearing transactional deposit accounts, non-interest bearing deposits, and savings deposits. Core deposits exclude brokered deposits and certificates of deposit over $250,000. Core deposits, excluding P.R. public funds that are fully collateralized, have historically provided the Corporation with a sizable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. P.R. public funds, while linked to market interest rates, provide a stable source of funding with an attractive earnings spread. Core deposits totaled $59.0 billion, or 93% of total deposits, at December 31, 2023, compared with $57.6 billion, or 94% of total deposits, at December 31, 2022. Core deposits financed 88% of the Corporation’s earning assets at December 31, 2023, compared with 90% at December 31, 2022. The distribution by maturity of certificates of deposit with denominations of $250,000 and over at December 31, 2023 is presented in the table that follows: The Corporation had $1.7 billion in brokered deposits at December 31, 2023, which financed approximately 2% of its total assets (December 31, 2022 - $1.1 billion and 2%, respectively). In the event that any of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries’ regulatory capital ratios fall below those required by a well-capitalized institution or are subject to capital restrictions by the regulators, that banking subsidiary faces the risk of not being able to raise or maintain brokered deposits and faces limitations on the rate paid on deposits, which may hinder the Corporation’s ability to effectively compete in its retail markets and could affect its deposit raising efforts. Deposits from the public sector represent an important source of funds for the Corporation. As of December 31, 2023, total public sector deposits were $18.1 billion, compared to $15.8 billion at December 31, 2022. Generally, these deposits require that the bank pledge high credit quality securities as collateral; therefore, liquidity risks arising from public sector deposit outflows are lower given that the bank receives its POPULAR, INC. 2023 ANNUAL REPORT 31 collateral in return. This, now unpledged, collateral can either be financed via repurchase agreements or sold for cash. However, there are some timing differences between the time the deposit outflow occurs and when the bank receives its collateral. Additionally, the Corporation mainly utilizes fixedrate U.S. Treasury debt securities as collateral. While these securities have limited credit risk, they are subject to market value risk based on changes in the interest rate environment. When interest rates increase, the value of this collateral decreases and could result in the Corporation having to provide additional collateral to cover the same amount of deposit liabilities. This additional collateral could reduce unpledged securities otherwise available as liquidity sources to the Corporation. At December 31, 2023, management believes that the banking subsidiaries had sufficient current and projected liquidity sources to meet their anticipated cash flow obligations, as well as special needs and off-balance sheet commitments, in the ordinary course of business and have sufficient liquidity resources to address a stress event. Although the banking subsidiaries have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances, no assurance can be given that they would be able to replace those funds in the future if the Corporation’s financial condition or general market conditions were to deteriorate. The Corporation’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if the banking subsidiaries are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future financing needs at acceptable interest rates. The banking subsidiaries also are required to deposit cash or qualifying securities to meet margin requirements on repurchase agreements and other collateralized borrowing facilities. To the extent that the value of securities previously pledged as collateral declines because of market changes, the Corporation will be required to deposit additional cash or securities to meet its margin requirements, thereby adversely affecting its liquidity. Finally, if management is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to meet its future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. The Corporation monitors uninsured deposits under applicable FDIC regulations. Additionally, the Corporation monitors accounts with balances over $250,000. While the Corporation has a diverse deposit base from retail, commercial, corporate and government clients, as well as wholesale funding sources such as brokered deposits, it considers balance in excess of $250,000 to have a higher potential liquidity risk. Table 19 reflects the aggregate balance in deposit accounts in excess of $250,000, including collateralized public funds and deposits outside of the U.S. and its territories. Collateralized public funds, as presented in Table 19, represent public deposit balances from governmental entities in the U.S. and its territories, including Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, that are collateralized based on such jurisdictions’ applicable collateral requirements. On December 31, 2023, deposits with balances in excess of $250,000, excluding foreign deposits (mainly deposits in the British Virgin Islands) intercompany deposits and collateralized public funds, were $10.6 billion or 20% at BPPR and $ 2.6 billion or 23% at Popular U.S., compared to available liquidity sources of $14.5 billion at BPPR and $ 5.0 billion at Popular U.S.