FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Form 10-K contains  “forward-looking statements”  within the  meaning of the U.S. Private  Securities Litigation  Reform Act  of
1995,  including,  without  limitation,  statements  about  Popular,  Inc.’s  (the  “Corporation,”  “Popular,”  “we,”  “us,”  “our”)  business,
financial condition, results  of operations, plans,  objectives and future  performance. These statements  are not  guarantees of future
performance,  are  based  on  management’s current  expectations and,  by  their  nature,  involve  risks,  uncertainties,  estimates and
assumptions. Potential factors, some  of which  are beyond  the Corporation’s  control, could  cause actual  results to  differ materially
from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include without limitation the effect
of competitive and economic factors, and our reaction to those factors,  the adequacy of the allowance for loan  losses, delinquency
trends, market risk and the impact of interest rate changes, capital markets conditions, capital adequacy and liquidity,  and the effect
of legal and regulatory proceedings and new accounting standards on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.
All statements  contained herein  that are  not clearly  historical in  nature are  forward-looking, and  the words  “anticipate,” “believe,”
“continues,” “expect,”  “estimate,” “intend,”  “project” and  similar expressions  and future  or conditional  verbs such  as “will,”  “would,”
“should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Various factors, some of which are beyond Popular’s control, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in,
or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the rate of
growth or decline in the  economy and employment levels, as well  as general business and economic  conditions in the  geographic
areas we serve and, in particular, in  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico  (the “Commonwealth” or “Puerto Rico”), where  a significant
portion of  our business  is concentrated;  adverse economic  conditions, including  high levels  of and ongoing  increases in  inflation
rates,  that  adversely affect  housing prices,  the  job market, consumer confidence and  spending habits  which may  affect  in turn,
among other  things, our  level of  non-performing assets,  charge-offs and  provision expense;  changes in  interest rates  and market
liquidity,  which may  reduce interest margins,  impact funding  sources, reduce loan originations, affect  our ability to  originate and
distribute financial products in the primary and secondary markets and impact the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to
return capital to our shareholders; the  impact of the current fiscal and economic challenges of Puerto Rico and  the measures taken
and to be  taken by the  Puerto Rico Government and the Federally-appointed oversight  board on the economy, our customers and
our business;  the impact  of the  pending debt  restructuring proceedings  under Title  III of  the Puerto  Rico Oversight,  Management
and Economic Stability Act (“PROMESA”) and of other actions taken or to be taken to address Puerto Rico’s fiscal challenges on the
value of our portfolio of Puerto Rico government securities and loans to governmental entities and of our commercial, mortgage and
consumer loan portfolios where private borrowers  could be  directly affected  by governmental action;  the amount of Puerto Rico
public sector deposits held at the Corporation, whose future balances are uncertain and difficult  to predict and may be impacted by
factors such  as the amount  of Federal funds  received by  the P.R.  Government in  connection with  the COVID-19 pandemic  and
hurricane  recovery  assistance  and  the  rate  of  expenditure  of  such  funds,  as  well  as  the  financial  condition,  liquidity  and  cash
management  practices  of  the  Puerto  Rico  Government  and  its  instrumentalities;  unforeseen  or  catastrophic  events,  including
extreme weather events, including hurricanes,  other natural disasters, man-made disasters,  acts of violence or war or pandemics,
epidemics and  other health-related crises,  including any resurgence of  COVID-19, or  the fear  of any  such event  occurring, any of
which could cause adverse consequences for our business, including, but not limited to, disruptions in our operations; our ability to
achieve the  expected benefits from our  transformation initiative, including our  ability to  achieve our  targeted sustainable return on
tangible common equity of 14% by  the  end of 2025;  risks related to Popular’s acquisition  of certain information technology  and
related assets formerly used by Evertec, Inc. to service certain of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico’s key channels, as well as the entry
into amended and restated commercial agreements (the  “Evertec Business Acquisition  Transaction”), including  Popular’s ability to
successfully transition and integrate the assets acquired as part of the  Evertec Business Acquisition Transaction, as well as related
operations, employees and  third party  contractors; unexpected costs,  including, without limitation,  costs  due  to exposure to any
unrecorded liabilities  or issues  not identified  during due  diligence investigation  of the  Evertec Business  Acquisition Transaction  or
that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by Evertec, Inc.;  and business and other risks arising from the extension of
Popular’s current  commercial  agreements with Evertec,  Inc.;  the  fiscal  and  monetary policies of  the  federal  government and  its
agencies;  changes  in  federal  bank  regulatory  and  supervisory  policies,  including  required  levels  of  capital  and  the  impact  of
proposed capital standards on our capital ratios; additional Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) assessments; regulatory
approvals  that  may  be  necessary  to  undertake  certain  actions  or  consummate  strategic  transactions,  such  as  acquisitions  and
dispositions; the  relative strength  or weakness of  the consumer  and commercial  credit sectors  and of  the real  estate markets  in
Puerto Rico and the other markets in which our borrowers are located; the performance of the stock and bond markets; competition
in the financial services  industry; possible legislative, tax or regulatory changes; a  failure in or breach of our operational or security
systems or infrastructure or those of  Evertec, Inc., our provider of core financial transaction processing and  information technology
services, or of  third parties providing services to us,  including as a  result of cyberattacks, e-fraud, denial-of-services and computer
intrusion, that might result in, among other  things, loss  or breach of customer data, disruption of services, reputational damage or

50

additional  costs  to  Popular;  changes  in  market  rates  and  prices  which  may  adversely  impact  the  value  of  financial  assets  and
liabilities;  potential  judgments,  claims,  damages,  penalties,  fines,  enforcement  actions  and  reputational  damage  resulting  from
pending or  future litigation  and regulatory  or government investigations or  actions, including as a  result of  our participation  in and
execution of government programs related  to the COVID-19 pandemic; changes  in accounting standards, rules and  interpretations;
our ability  to grow  our core  businesses; decisions  to downsize,  sell or  close branches  or business  units or  otherwise change  our
business mix; and management’s ability to identify and manage these and other risks.

Moreover,  the  outcome  of  legal  and  regulatory  proceedings,  as  discussed  in  “Part  I,  Item  3.  Legal  Proceedings,”  is  inherently
uncertain and depends on judicial interpretations of law and the findings of regulators, judges and/or juries. Investors should refer to
“Part I, Item 1A” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of certain risks and uncertainties to which the Corporation is subject.

All forward-looking  statements included  in this  Form 10-K  are based  upon information  available to  Popular as  of the  date of  this
Form 10- K, and other than as required by law,  including the requirements of applicable securities laws, we assume no obligation to
update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date
of such statements.

OVERVIEW

The Corporation is a diversified, publicly-owned financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the Board  of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Corporation has operations in Puerto Rico, the United States (“U.S.”) mainland, and
the  U.S.  and  British Virgin  Islands. In  Puerto  Rico, the  Corporation provides  retail, mortgage,  and commercial  banking services
through its principal banking subsidiary, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico (“BPPR”), as well as investment banking, broker-dealer, auto
and  equipment  leasing  and  financing,  and  insurance  services  through  specialized  subsidiaries.  In  the  U.S.  mainland,  the
Corporation provides  retail, mortgage,  commercial banking  services, as well  as equipment  leasing and  financing, through  its New
York-chartered banking subsidiary, Popular Bank (“PB” or “Popular U.S.”) which has branches located in New York, New Jersey and
Florida. Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements presents information about the Corporation’s business segments.

YEAR 2022 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS

Acquisition of Key Customer Channels and Amendments to Commercial Contracts with Evertec

On July 1, 2022, BPPR completed the announced acquisition of certain assets from Evertec Group, LLC (“Evertec Group”), a wholly
owned  subsidiary  of  Evertec,  Inc.  (“Evertec”)  (NYSE:  EVTC),  to  service  certain  BPPR  channels  (the  “Business  Acquisition
Transaction”).

As  a result of the closing  of the Business  Acquisition Transaction,  BPPR acquired from Evertec Group  certain critical  channels,
including  BPPR’s  retail  and  business  digital  banking  and  commercial  cash  management  applications.  In  connection  with  the
Business Acquisition Transaction, BPPR also entered into amended and  restated service agreements with Evertec Group  pursuant
to  which Evertec  Group  will continue to  provide  various information technology and  transaction  processing services  to Popular,
BPPR and their respective subsidiaries.

Under the  amended service  agreements, Evertec Group no  longer has  exclusive rights to provide  certain of  Popular’s technology
services. The  amended service  agreements include  discounted pricing  and lowered  caps on  contractual pricing  escalators tied  to
the Consumer Price Index. As part of the transaction, BPPR and Evertec also entered into a revenue sharing structure for BPPR in
connection  with its  merchant acquiring relationship with Evertec.  Under  the  terms  of the  amended and  restated Master  Service
Agreement (“MSA”), Evertec will be entitled to receive monthly payments from the Corporation to the extent that Evertec’s revenues,
covered under the MSA, fall below certain agreed annualized minimum amounts.

As consideration for the Business Acquisition Transaction, BPPR delivered to Evertec Group 4,589,169 shares  of Evertec common
stock valued at closing at $169.2 million (based on Evertec’s stock price on June 30, 2022 of $36.88). A total of $144.8 million of the
consideration for  the transaction  was attributed  to the  acquisition of  the critical  channels of  which $28.7  million were  attributed to
software  intangible  assets  and  $116.1  million  were  attributed  to  goodwill.  The  transaction  was  accounted  for  as  a  business
combination. The  remaining $24.2  million was  attributed to the  renegotiation of  the MSA  with Evertec and  was  recorded as  an

51

 
expense. The Corporation also recorded a credit of $6.9 million in Evertec billings under the MSA during the third quarter of 2022 as
a result of the Business Acquisition Transaction, resulting in a net expense charge for the quarter of $17.3 million.

On  August  15,  2022,  the  Corporation  completed  the  sale  of  its  remaining  7,065,634  shares  of  common  stock  of  Evertec  (the
“Evertec Stock Sale”, and collectively  with the Business Acquisition Transaction,  the “Evertec Transactions”). Following the Evertec
Stock Sale, Popular  no longer  owns any  Evertec common  stock. The  impact of  the gain on  the sale  of Evertec shares  used as
consideration  for  the  Business  Acquisition  Transaction  in  exchange  for  the  acquired  applications  on  July  1,  2022  and  the  net
expense associated with the renegotiation of the MSA resulted in an after-tax gain of $97.9 million, while the Evertec Stock Sale and
the related accounting adjustments resulted in an after-tax  gain of $128.8  million, recorded during  the third quarter  of 2022, for  an
aggregate after-tax gain of $226.6 million.

Transformation Initiative:

Leveraging the completion  of the Evertec  Transactions, the Corporation embarked on  a broad-based multi-year,  technological and
business  process  transformation  during  the  second  half  of  2022.  The  needs  and  expectations  of  our  clients,  as  well  as  the
competitive landscape, have evolved, requiring us to make important investments in our technological infrastructure and adopt more
agile practices.  Our technology and business transformation will be a significant priority for the company over the next  three years
and beyond.

Through December  31, 2022,  excluding compensation  costs of  our employees  involved in  the initiative,  we expensed  $24 million
toward this effort,  primarily in professional  fees and technology  related expenses. As  part of this  transformation, we aim  to expand
our digital capabilities,  modernize our technology platform, and implement  agile and efficient  business processes across the entire
company.  In  2023,  we  plan  an  expense  of  approximately $50  million  toward  this  effort,  excluding employee  compensation  and
capitalized costs.  We expect the  expenses tied  to this transformation  initiative, which  will continue  through 2025  to result in  an
enhanced digital experience for our clients, as well as better technology and more efficient processes for our employees. We expect
this effort to contribute to better efficiency and higher earnings, resulting in a targeted sustainable return on tangible common equity
of 14% by the end of 2025. 

To  facilitate  the  transparency  of  the  progress  with  these  efforts,  effective  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2022,  the  Corporation  has
separated  technology,  professional  fees  and  transactional  activities  as  standalone  expense  categories  in  the  accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Operations. Refer to additional information in the Operating expenses section of this MD&A.

Capital Actions

On July 12, 2022, the Corporation completed an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) program for the  repurchase of $400 million
of  Popular’s  common  stock  for  which  an  initial  delivery  of  3,483,942  shares  were  delivered  in  March  2022  (the  “March  ASR
Agreement”). Upon the final  settlement of the March ASR Agreement,  the Corporation received an  additional 1,582,922 shares  of
common stock.  The Corporation  repurchased a  total of  5,066,864 shares  at an  average purchase  price of  $78.9443, which  were
recorded as treasury stock by $440 million under the March ASR Agreement.

On December 7, 2022, the Corporation completed the settlement of another ASR agreement (the “August ASR Agreement”) for the
repurchase of  $231 million  of Popular’s  common stock,  for which  an initial  2,339,241 shares  were delivered  on August  26, 2022.
Upon the final  settlement of the August ASR Agreement, the  Corporation received an additional  840,024 shares of common stock.
The Corporation repurchased a total of  3,179,265 shares at an average purchase price of $72.66, which were recorded as treasury
stock by $245 million under the August ASR Agreement.

Hurricanes Fiona and Ian

On September  18, 2022, Hurricane Fiona made  landfall in the southwest area of  Puerto Rico as a  Category 1 hurricane, bringing
record rainfall and flooding throughout the island and affecting communities where BPPR does business. Hurricane Fiona’s rain and
winds  caused  a  complete  blackout  on  the  island  and  caused  considerable  damage  to  certain  sectors  in  the  southwest  region.
President  Biden  issued  a  disaster  declaration  for  the  island.  While  the  impact  to  BPPR’s  operation  was  not  material,  certain
customers, highly concentrated in certain municipalities, were impacted by the disaster.

52

As  part  of  hurricane  relief  efforts  on  the  island,  the  Corporation  waived  late-payment  fees  on  individual  lending  products  from
September 16 through October 31, 2022. Popular also waived, through September 30, withdrawal fees payable by our customers at
ATMs  outside of  the Popular  network and fees payable  by customers of other  banking institutions at Popular’s ATMs.  In addition,
the Corporation  offered to  clients impacted  by the  hurricane a  moratorium of  up to  three monthly  payments, up  to December  31,
2022, on  personal and  commercial credit  cards, auto  loans, leases  and personal  loans, subject  to certain  eligibility requirements.
Mortgage clients  may also  benefit from  different payment  relief alternatives  available, depending  on their  type of  loan. Loan  relief
options for commercial clients are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

Separately, on September 28, 2022, Hurricane Ian made  a landfall on  the west coast  of central Florida as a Category  4 hurricane,
causing extensive  floods and  destruction in  the impacted  areas in  Florida. President  Biden made  a major  disaster declaration  for
certain counties  in central  Florida. PB  and BPPR  do not  have significant  operations in  the area  but have  some limited  retail and
commercial clients who reside or have business activities in the impacted areas.

For  clients impacted by  the hurricane that  reside in counties in  Florida declared  as  disaster zones  by  President Biden, Popular
offered a moratorium for up to three payments, up to January 31, 2023, subject to certain eligibility requirements. As in the case  of
Puerto Rico, relief options for commercial clients are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

Refer to the Credit Risk section of this MD&A for additional information of the loan moratorium offered to clients.

Transfer of Securities from Available-for Sale to Held-To-Maturity

In October 2022, the  Corporation transferred U.S. Treasury securities  with a fair value of $6.5 billion (par value  of $7.4 billion) from
its available-for-sale portfolio to its held-to-maturity portfolio. Management changed its intent, given its ability to hold these securities
to maturity  due to  the Corporation’s  liquidity position  and its  intention to  reduce the  impact on  accumulated other  comprehensive
income (loss) (“AOCI”) and tangible capital of further increases in interest rates.

The securities were reclassified  at fair value  at the  time of the transfer.  At the date of  the transfer,  these securities had pre-tax
unrealized  losses  of  $873.0  million  recorded  in  AOCI.  This  fair  value  discount  is  being  accreted  to  interest  income  and  the
unrealized loss remaining in AOCI is being amortized,  offsetting each other through  the remaining life of  the securities. There were
no realized gains or losses recorded as a result of this transfer. 

While changes  in the  amount of  unrealized gains  and losses  in AOCI  have an  impact on  the Corporation’s  and its  wholly-owned
banking  subsidiaries’  tangible  capital  ratios,  they  do  not  impact  regulatory  capital  ratios,  in  accordance  with  the  regulatory
framework.  Refer  to  Note  7  to  the  Consolidated  Financial Statements  which  presents  information about  the  Corporation’s  Debt
Securities Held-to-Maturity for additional details

Partial Release of the Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance

During the  fourth quarter  of 2022,  the Corporation  recorded a  partial reversal  of the  deferred tax  asset valuation allowance of  the
U.S. operations of $68.2 million. As of December 31, 2022, the deferred tax  asset (“DTA”) for the U.S. operations, mainly related to
net  operating  losses  (“NOLs”),  was  valued  at  $278  million,  net  of  the  corresponding  valuation  allowance  of  $402  million.  The
reversal during  the fourth  quarter was determined based on management’s  expectation of the realization  of additional amounts of
federal  and  state  NOLs  over  their  remaining  carryover  period.  The  determination  was  based  on  the  U.S.  operations’ sustained
profitability during the years ended December 31,  2021 and 2022, together with evidence of  stable credit metrics and the length of
the expiration of the net operating losses. As of December 31, 2022, the Corporation had approximately $525 million in DTA related
to federal  NOLs with  expiration dates  between 2028  and 2033  and approximately  $135 million  in DTA  related to  state NOLs  with
expiration dates between 2030 and 2036.

53

 
 
Table 1 - Selected Financial Data

(Dollars in thousands, except per common share data)

2022

2021

2020

CONDENSED STATEMENTS  OF OPERATIONS

Years ended December  31,

Interest income

Interest expense

Net interest income 

Provision for credit losses (benefit) 

Non-interest income

Operating expenses

Income tax expense 

Net income

Net income applicable to common stock

PER COMMON SHARE DATA

Net income per common share - basic

Net income per common share - diluted

Dividends declared

Common equity per share

Market value per common share

Outstanding shares:

Average - basic

Average - assuming dilution

End of period

AVERAGE BALANCES

Net loans[1]

Earning assets

Total assets

Deposits

Borrowings

Total stockholders'  equity

PERIOD END BALANCE

Net loans[1]

Allowance for credit losses - loans portfolio

Earning assets

Total assets

Deposits

Borrowings

Total stockholders'  equity

SELECTED RATIOS

$

2,465,911 $

2,122,637 $

$

$

$

298,552

2,167,359

83,030

897,062

1,746,420

132,330

1,102,641 $

1,101,229 $

165,047

1,957,590

(193,464)

642,128

1,549,275

309,018

934,889 $

933,477 $

14.65 $

11.49 $

14.63

2.20

56.66

66.32

75,147,263

75,274,003

71,853,720

11.46

1.75

74.48

82.04

81,263,027

81,420,154

79,851,169

$

30,405,281 $

29,074,036 $

69,729,933

72,808,604

64,716,404

1,119,878

6,009,225

68,088,675

71,168,650

63,102,916

1,255,495

5,777,652

$

32,083,150 $

29,299,725 $

720,302

64,251,062

67,637,917

61,227,227

1,400,319

4,093,425

695,366

72,103,862

75,097,899

67,005,088

1,155,166

5,969,397

2,091,551

234,938

1,856,613

292,536

512,312

1,457,829

111,938

506,622

504,864

5.88

5.87

1.60

71.30

56.32

85,882,371

85,975,259

84,244,235

28,384,981

56,404,607

59,583,455

51,585,779

1,321,772

5,419,938

29,484,651

896,250

62,989,715

65,926,000

56,866,340

1,346,284

6,028,687

Net interest margin (non-taxable equivalent basis)

3.11 %

2.88 %

3.29 %

Net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) -Non-GAAP

Return on assets

Return on common equity

Tier I capital

Total capital

[1] Includes loans held-for-sale.

3.46

1.51

18.39

16.45

18.26

3.19

1.31

16.22

17.49

19.35

3.62

0.85

9.36

16.33

18.81

54

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP financial measures

Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis 

Net  interest  income,  on  a  taxable  equivalent  basis,  is  presented  with  its  different  components  in  Table  3  for  the  year  ended
December 31,  2022 as compared  with the same  period in  2021, segregated  by major categories  of interest earning assets  and
interest-bearing liabilities. 

The interest earning assets include investment securities and loans that are exempt from income tax, principally in Puerto Rico. The
main  sources  of  tax-exempt  interest  income  are  certain  investments  in  obligations  of  the  U.S.  Government,  its  agencies  and
sponsored  entities,  and  certain  obligations  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Puerto  Rico  and  its  agencies  and  assets  held  by  the
Corporation’s international  banking entities. To  facilitate the  comparison of  all interest  related to  these assets,  the interest  income
has  been converted to  a taxable equivalent  basis, using the  applicable statutory income tax  rates for  each  period.  The taxable
equivalent computation  considers the  interest expense  and other  related expense  disallowances required  by the  Puerto Rico  tax
law. Under Puerto Rico tax law,  the exempt interest can be deducted up to the amount of taxable income. Net interest income, on a
taxable  equivalent  basis,  is  a  non-GAAP  financial  measure.  Management  believes  that  this  presentation  provides  meaningful
information since it facilitates the comparison of revenues arising from taxable and exempt sources.

Net interest  income, on  a taxable  equivalent basis,  as used  by the  Corporation may  not be  comparable to  similarly named  non-
GAAP financial measures used by other companies.

Financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2022

The Corporation’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2022 amounted to $1.1 billion, compared to a net income of $934.9
million for 2021.

The discussion  that follows  provides highlights  of the  Corporation’s results  of operations for  the year  ended December  31, 2022
compared to the results of  operations of 2021. It also  provides some highlights with respect to the Corporation’s financial condition,
credit quality,  capital and  liquidity.  Table  2 presents  a three-year  summary of  the components  of net income  as a  percentage of
average total assets. For a discussion of our 2021 results of operations compared  with 2020, see “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of  Financial Condition  and Results  of Operations”  in our  Annual Report  on Form  10-K for  the year  ended December  31,
2021.

55

 
Table 2 - Components of Net  Income as a Percentage of Average Total  Assets

Net interest income

Provision for credit (losses) benefit

Mortgage banking activities

Net (loss) gain and valuation adjustments on investment  securities

Other non-interest income 

Total net interest  income and non-interest income, net of provision  for credit losses 

Operating expenses

Income before income tax 

Income tax expense

Net income

2022

2021

2020

2.98 %

2.75 %

3.12 %

(0.11)

0.06

(0.01)

1.18

4.10

(2.40)

1.70

(0.19)

0.27

0.07

-

0.83

3.92

(2.18)

1.74

(0.43)

(0.49)

0.02

0.01

0.83

3.49

(2.45)

1.04

(0.19)

1.51 %

1.31 %

0.85 %

Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $2.2 billion, an increase of $209.8  million when compared to 2021.
The increase in  net interest  income was  mainly driven by higher interest  income from money market  investments due  to higher
interest rates,  higher income  from investment  securities and  higher interest  income from  commercial and  consumer loans  due to
higher volumes and  yields. The net interest margin  for the year  ended December 31,  2022 was 3.11 % compared to 2.88%  for the
same period in 2021, driven by higher average volume of earning assets and higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve increased
the Federal Funds Rate during 2022. On a taxable equivalent basis, net interest margin was  3.46% in 2022, compared to  3.19% in
2021. Refer to the Net Interest Income section of this MD&A for additional information.

The Corporation’s total  provision for  credit losses  reflected an  expense of  $83.0 million  for the  year ended  December 31,  2022,
compared to  a reserve  release of  $193.5 million  for 2021. The  expense for  the year  2022 was mostly  driven by  changes in  the
economic scenario, higher loan volumes and changes in credit quality. The Corporation continued to exhibit  favorable credit quality
trends  with  low  levels  of  net charge-offs  and  decreasing  non-performing loans.  Non-performing assets  totaled  $528.6  million  at
December 31, 2022, reflecting a decrease of $104.4 million when compared to December 31, 2021. Refer to the Provision for Credit
Losses and  Credit Risk  sections of  this MD&A  for information  on the  allowance for  credit losses,  non-performing assets, troubled
debt restructurings, net charge-offs and credit quality metrics.

Non-interest  income  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  amounted  to  $897.1  million,  an  increase  of  $254.9  million,  when
compared with 2021, mostly due to: the $257.7 million gain related to the  Evertec Transactions and related accounting adjustments
and  higher service  fees  due  to  higher credit  card  fees  and  merchant network  business fees  as  a  result  of the  revenue sharing
agreement entered  into in connection  with the  Evertec Transactions.  Refer to  the Non-Interest Income  section of  this MD&A for
additional information on the major variances of the different categories of non-interest income.

Total operating expenses amounted to $1.7 billion for the year 2022, reflecting an increase of $197.1 million, when compared to the
same period  in 2021,  mainly due to higher  personnel costs reflecting salary increases  and a  higher headcount, professional fees,
technology  and  software  expenses,  reflecting  the  impact  of  the  investment  in  the  transformation  initiative,  higher  business
promotions expense  driven by  customer loyalty  programs and  a $17.3  million expense  associated with  the Evertec  Transactions.
Refer to the Operating Expenses section of this MD&A for additional information.

Income tax expense amounted to $132.3 million  for the year ended December 31, 2022,  compared with an income tax expense of
$309.0 million  for the  previous year.  The decrease  in income  tax expense  for the  year is  mainly due  to the impact  of the  partial
reversal of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance of the U.S. Operations and, higher taxable income that was exempt or subject
to preferential tax rates. Refer to  the Income Taxes  section in this MD&A and Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on income taxes.

At December  31, 2022,  the Corporation’s  total assets  were $67.6  billion, compared  with $75.1  billion at  December 31,  2021. The
decrease of $7.5 billion is mainly driven by lower money market investments due to a decrease in deposits mainly in the Puerto Rico

56

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
public sector, partially offset by an increase in loans held-in-portfolio mainly in the commercial and consumer portfolios. Refer to the
Statement of Financial Condition Analysis section of this MD&A for additional information.

Deposits amounted to  $61.2 billion at  December 31, 2022,  compared with $67.0  billion at December 31, 2021. Table  8 presents a
breakdown of deposits  by major categories. The  decrease in deposits was  mainly due to  lower Puerto Rico  public sector deposits.
The  Corporation’s borrowings amounted to $1.4  billion at December 31,  2022, compared to $1.2  billion at  December 31,  2021.
Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on the Corporation’s borrowings.

Refer  to  Table  7  in  the  Statement  of  Financial  Condition  Analysis  section  of  this  MD&A  for  the  percentage  allocation  of  the
composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets.

Stockholders’ equity amounted to $4.1 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $6.0 billion at December 31, 2021. The decrease
was principally due to higher accumulated unrealized losses on debt securities available-for-sale and the impact of two accelerated
share  repurchase  transactions  completed  during  2022,  declared  dividends,  partially  offset  by  net  income  for  the  year.  The
Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to  be well-capitalized at December  31, 2022. The Common  Equity Tier  1 Capital
ratio at December 31, 2022 was 16.39%, compared to 17.42% at December 31, 2021.

For further discussion of operating results, financial condition and business risks refer to the narrative and tables included herein.

The shares of the Corporation’s common stock are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol BPOP. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES / ESTIMATES

The accounting and  reporting policies followed by  the Corporation and its  subsidiaries conform with generally  accepted accounting
principles in the United States of America  (“GAAP”) and general practices within  the financial services  industry. The  Corporation’s
significant accounting policies  are described  in detail in  Note 2  to the  Consolidated Financial  Statements and  should be read in
conjunction with this section. 

Critical accounting policies require management to make estimates and  assumptions, which involve significant  judgment about the
effect of matters  that are inherently uncertain  and that involve a  high degree of subjectivity.  These estimates are made  under facts
and circumstances  at a  point in  time and  changes in  those facts  and circumstances  could produce  actual results  that differ  from
those estimates. The  following MD&A  section is  a summary  of what  management considers  the Corporation’s  critical accounting
policies and estimates.

Fair Value Measurement of Financial Instruments

The Corporation currently measures  at fair  value on  a recurring basis its  trading debt securities, debt  securities available-for-sale,
certain equity securities,  derivatives and mortgage servicing  rights. Occasionally,  the Corporation is  required to record  at fair value
other assets  on a  nonrecurring basis, such as  loans held-for-sale, loans  held-in-portfolio that are collateral  dependent and certain
other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically result from the application of lower of  cost or fair value accounting
or write-downs of individual assets. 

The Corporation categorizes  its assets and  liabilities measured  at fair  value under  the three-level  hierarchy.  The level  within the
hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used for fair value measurement are observable.

The  Corporation  requires  the  use  of  observable  inputs  when  available,  in  order  to  minimize  the  use  of  unobservable  inputs  to
determine fair value. The inputs or methodologies used for valuing securities are  not necessarily an indication of the risk associated
with investing  in those  securities. The  amount of  judgment involved  in estimating  the fair  value of  a financial  instrument depends
upon the availability of quoted market prices or observable market  parameters. In addition, it may be affected by other factors such
as the type of instrument,  the liquidity of  the market for  the instrument, transparency  around the inputs  to the valuation,  as well as
the  contractual  characteristics of  the  instrument. Broker  quotes  used  for  fair  value  measurements  inherently  reflect  any  lack  of
liquidity in the market since they represent an exit price from the perspective of the market participants.

57

Trading Debt Securities and Debt Securities Available-for-Sale

The  majority  of  the  values  for  trading  debt  securities  and  debt securities  available-for-sale are  obtained from  third-party  pricing
services and  are validated  with alternate  pricing sources  when available.  Securities not  priced by  a secondary  pricing source  are
documented  and  validated  internally  according  to  their  significance  to  the  Corporation’s  financial  statements.  Management  has
established materiality thresholds according to the investment class to monitor and investigate material deviations in prices obtained
from the primary pricing service provider and the secondary pricing source used as support for the valuation results. 

Inputs are evaluated to  ascertain that they consider current  market conditions, including the relative liquidity of the market. When a
market quote  for a  specific security  is not  available, the  pricing service  provider generally  uses observable  data to  derive an  exit
price  for  the  instrument, such  as  benchmark yield  curves  and  trade  data  for  similar  products. To  the  extent  trading  data  is  not
available, the pricing service provider  relies on specific  information including dialogue  with brokers, buy side clients,  credit ratings,
spreads to  established benchmarks and  transactions on similar  securities, to draw correlations based  on the characteristics of the
evaluated instrument. If  for any  reason the pricing  service provider cannot  observe data required  to feed its model, it discontinues
pricing the instrument.

Furthermore, management assesses the fair value of its portfolio of investment securities at least on a quarterly basis. Securities are
classified  in  the  fair  value  hierarchy  according  to  product  type,  characteristics  and  market  liquidity.  At  the  end  of  each  period,
management assesses the valuation hierarchy for each asset or liability measured. The fair value measurement analysis performed
by  the  Corporation  includes  validation  procedures  and  review  of  market  changes,  pricing  methodology,  assumption  and  level
hierarchy changes, and evaluation of distressed transactions. 

Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for  a description of  the Corporation’s valuation methodologies used  for
the assets and liabilities measured at fair value.

Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 

Interest on loans is accrued and recorded as interest income based upon the principal amount outstanding.

Non-accrual loans are those loans on which the accrual of interest is discontinued. When a loan is  placed on non-accrual status, all
previously accrued and unpaid interest  is charged against  interest income and the loan is  accounted for  either on  a cash-basis
method or  on the  cost-recovery method.  Loans designated  as non-accruing  are returned  to accrual  status when  the Corporation
expects repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest. The determination as to the ultimate collectability of the loan’s
balance may involve management’s judgment in the evaluation of the borrower’s financial condition and prospects for repayment.

Refer to  the MD&A  section titled  Credit Risk,  particularly the  Non-performing assets  sub-section, for  a detailed  description of  the
Corporation’s non-accruing and charge-off policies by major loan categories. 

One of  the most  critical and  complex accounting  estimates is  associated with the determination  of the  allowance for  credit losses
(“ACL”).  The  Corporation  establishes  an  ACL  for  its  loan  portfolio  based  on  its  estimate  of  credit  losses  over  the  remaining
contractual term  of the  loans, adjusted  for expected  prepayments, in  accordance with  Accounting Standards  Codification (“ASC”)
Topic  326.  An  ACL  is  recognized  for  all  loans  including  originated  and  purchased loans,  since  inception,  with  a  corresponding
charge  to  the  provision  for  credit  losses,  except  for  purchased  credit  deteriorated  (“PCD”)  loans  as  explained  below.  The
Corporation follows a methodology to establish the ACL which includes a reasonable and supportable forecast period for estimating
credit  losses,  considering  quantitative  and  qualitative  factors  as  well  as  the  economic  outlook.  As  part  of  this  methodology,
management evaluates various macroeconomic scenarios provided  by third  parties. At  December 31,  2022, management  applied
probability weights to the outcome of the selected scenarios.

The  Corporation  has  designated  as  collateral  dependent  loans  secured  by  collateral  when  foreclosure  is  probable  or  when
foreclosure is not probable but  the practical expedient  is used. The practical expedient  is used when repayment is  expected to be
provided substantially by the sale or  operation of the collateral and the  borrower is  experiencing financial  difficulty.  The  ACL  of
collateral dependent loans is measured based  on the fair value of the  collateral less costs to sell. The  fair value of  the collateral is
based on appraisals, which may be adjusted due to their age, and the type, location, and condition of the property or area or general
market conditions to reflect the expected change in value between the effective date of the appraisal and the measurement date.  In
addition, refer  to the  Credit Risk  section of  this MD&A  for detailed  information on  the Corporation’s  collateral value  estimation for
other real estate.

58

 
A restructuring constitutes a TDR when the Corporation separately concludes that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the
debtor is  experiencing financial  difficulties. For information on  the Corporation’s  TDR policy,  refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The established framework captures the impact of concessions through discounting modified contractual cash
flows,  both  principal  and  interest,  at  the  loan’s  original  effective  rate.  The  impact  of  these  concessions  is  combined  with  the
expected credit losses generated by the quantitative loss models in order to arrive at the ACL.

Loans Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality 

PCD loans are defined as those with evidence of a more-than-insignificant deterioration in credit quality since origination. PCD loans
are initially recorded  at its purchase  price plus an  estimated ACL. Upon the acquisition of  a PCD loan,  the Corporation recognizes
the  estimate  of  the  expected  credit  losses  over  the  remaining  contractual  term  of  each  individual  loan  as  an  ACL  with  a
corresponding addition to the loan purchase price. The amount of the purchased premium or discount which is not related to  credit
risk  is  amortized  over  the  life  of  the  loan  through  net  interest  income  using  the  effective  interest  method  or  a  method  that
approximates the effective interest method. Changes in expected credit losses are recorded as an increase or decrease to the ACL
with a corresponding charge  (reverse) to the provision for credit losses in  the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These loans
follow the same nonaccrual policies as non-PCD loans. Modifications of PCD loans that meet the definition of a TDR are accounted
and reported as such following the same processes as non-PCD loans.

Income Taxes

Income  taxes  are  accounted for using  the  asset  and  liability method.  Under  this  method,  deferred tax  assets  and  liabilities  are
recognized based  on the  future tax  consequences attributable  to temporary  differences between the  financial statement  carrying
amounts  of  existing  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  respective  tax  basis,  and  attributable  to  operating  loss  and  tax  credit
carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured  using enacted tax rates  expected to apply in  the years in which the
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or paid. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
is recognized in earnings in the period when the changes are enacted. 

The  calculation  of  periodic  income  taxes  is  complex  and  requires  the  use  of  estimates  and  judgments.  The  Corporation  has
recorded  two  accruals  for  income  taxes:  (i)  the  net  estimated  amount  currently  due  or  to  be  received  from  taxing  jurisdictions,
including  any  reserve  for  potential  examination  issues,  and  (ii)  a  deferred  income  tax  that  represents  the  estimated  impact  of
temporary differences between how the Corporation recognizes assets and liabilities under accounting principles generally accepted
in  the  United  States  (GAAP),  and  how  such  assets  and  liabilities  are  recognized  under  the  tax  code.  Differences  in  the  actual
outcome of these future tax consequences could impact the Corporation’s financial position or its results of operations. In estimating
taxes, management assesses the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of  transactions taking into consideration
statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance. 

A deferred  tax asset should be  reduced by a valuation allowance if based  on the  weight of all available evidence,  it is  more likely
than  not  (a  likelihood  of  more  than  50%)  that  some  portion  or  the  entire  deferred  tax  asset  will  not  be  realized.  The  valuation
allowance  should  be  sufficient  to  reduce  the  deferred  tax  asset  to  the  amount  that  is  more  likely  than  not  to  be  realized.  The
determination of whether a deferred tax asset is realizable is  based on weighting all available evidence, including both positive and
negative evidence.  The realization  of deferred  tax assets,  including carryforwards  and deductible  temporary differences,  depends
upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carryforward period. The realization of
deferred tax assets requires the consideration of all sources of taxable income available to realize the deferred tax asset, including
the  future  reversal  of  existing  temporary  differences,  future  taxable  income  exclusive  of  reversing  temporary  differences  and
carryforwards, taxable income in carryback years and tax-planning strategies.

Management evaluates the  realization of the  deferred tax asset  by taxing jurisdiction. The U.S. mainland operations are  evaluated
as  a whole  since a  consolidated income  tax return  is filed;  on the  other hand, the  deferred tax  asset related  to the  Puerto Rico
operations is evaluated  on an  entity by  entity basis,  since no consolidation  is allowed in  the income  tax filing.  Accordingly,  this
evaluation  is  composed  of  three  major  components:  U.S.  mainland  operations,  Puerto  Rico  banking  operations  and  Holding
Company.

59

For the  evaluation of the realization  of the  deferred tax  asset by  taxing jurisdiction,  refer to  Note 35  to the  Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Under the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are treated as separate taxable entities and are
not entitled to file  consolidated tax returns. The Code  provides a dividends-received deduction of 100%  on dividends received from
“controlled” subsidiaries subject to taxation in Puerto Rico and 85% on dividends received from other taxable domestic corporations. 

Changes in the Corporation’s estimates can occur  due to changes  in tax  rates, new business  strategies, newly enacted guidance,
and resolution  of issues  with taxing  authorities regarding  previously taken tax  positions. Such changes could  affect the  amount of
accrued taxes. The Corporation has made  tax payments in accordance with estimated tax payments rules. Any remaining payment
will not have any significant impact on liquidity and capital resources.

The valuation  of deferred  tax assets  requires judgment  in assessing  the likely  future tax  consequences of  events that  have been
recognized  in  the  financial  statements  or  tax  returns  and  future  profitability.  The  accounting  for  deferred  tax  consequences
represents management’s best estimate of those future events. Changes in management’s current estimates, due to unanticipated
events, could have a material impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Corporation establishes tax liabilities or reduces tax assets for uncertain tax positions when, despite its assessment that the tax
return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, the Corporation believes it may not succeed in realizing the tax
benefit of certain  positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position,  the Corporation determines  whether it is  more likely than  not
that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the
technical  merits  of  the  position.  The  Corporation’s  estimate  of  the  ultimate  tax  liability  contains  assumptions  based  on  past
experiences, and judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions  as well as  judgments about the likely outcome of issues
that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax  position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50%
likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  The Corporation evaluates these uncertain tax positions each  quarter and adjusts
the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the  progress of a tax audit or the expiration
of a  statute of  limitations. The Corporation  believes the  estimates and assumptions  used to support its  evaluation of uncertain tax
positions are reasonable.

The amount of  unrecognized tax benefits may increase or  decrease in the future for various  reasons including adding amounts  for
current  tax  year  positions,  expiration  of  open  income  tax  returns  due  to  the  statutes  of  limitation,  changes  in  management’s
judgment about  the level  of uncertainty,  status of  examinations, litigation  and legislative  activity and  the addition  or elimination  of
uncertain tax  positions. Although  the outcome of  tax audits  is uncertain,  the Corporation  believes that  adequate amounts  of tax,
interest and penalties  have been provided for any adjustments  that are expected to result from  open years. From time to time,  the
Corporation is audited by various federal, state  and local authorities regarding  income tax matters. Although  management believes
its  approach in  determining the  appropriate tax  treatment is  supportable and  in  accordance with the  accounting standards,  it  is
possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that  is different than the tax position reflected in the Corporation’s income
tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any,  are appropriately recorded in the consolidated
financial  statement  in  the  period  determined.  Such  differences  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on  the  Corporation’s  income  tax
provision or  benefit, or  other tax  reserves, in  the reporting  period in  which such  determination is made and,  consequently,  on the
Corporation’s results of operations, financial position and / or cash flows for such period.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The  Corporation’s  goodwill  and  other  identifiable  intangible  assets  having  an  indefinite  useful  life  are  tested  for  impairment.
Intangibles  with  indefinite  lives  are  evaluated  for  impairment  at  least  annually,  and  on  a  more  frequent  basis,  if  events  or
circumstances indicate impairment could have taken place. Such events could include, among others, a  significant adverse change
in the business climate, an adverse action by a regulator,  an unanticipated change in the competitive environment and a decision to
change  the  operations  or  dispose  of  a  reporting  unit.  Other  identifiable  intangible  assets  with  a  finite  useful  life  are  evaluated
periodically for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 

Goodwill impairment is recognized when the carrying amount of any of the reporting units exceeds its fair value up to the amount of
the  goodwill.  The  Corporation estimates  the  fair  value  of  each  reporting unit,  consistent  with  the  requirements of the  fair  value
measurements  accounting standard,  generally  using  a  combination  of  methods,  including  market  price  multiples  of  comparable
companies and  transactions, as well as  discounted cash flow analyses.  Subsequent reversal  of goodwill  impairment losses is not

60

permitted under applicable accounting standards. For a detailed description of the annual goodwill impairment evaluation performed
by the Corporation during the third quarter of 2022, refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations

The Corporation provides pension and restoration benefit plans for certain employees of various subsidiaries. The Corporation also
provides certain health care benefits for  retired employees of  BPPR. The non-contributory defined pension  and benefit  restoration
plans (“the Pension Plans”) are frozen with regards to all future benefit accruals. 

The estimated benefit costs and obligations of the Pension Plans and  Postretirement Health Care Benefit Plan  (“OPEB Plan”) are
impacted by  the use  of subjective  assumptions, which can  materially affect  recorded amounts, including  expected returns on  plan
assets,  discount  rates,  termination  rates,  retirement  rates  and  health  care  trend  rates.  Management  applies  judgment  in  the
determination of these factors, which normally undergo evaluation against current industry practice and the actual experience of the
Corporation.  The  Corporation uses  an  independent  actuarial  firm  for  assistance  in  the  determination  of  the  Pension  Plans  and
OPEB Plan costs and obligations. Detailed information  on the Plans  and related valuation  assumptions are included  in Note 30 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Corporation periodically reviews its assumption for the long-term expected return on Pension Plans  assets. The Pension Plans’
assets  fair  value  at  December 31,  2022  was  $619.9  million.  The  expected  return  on  plan  assets  is  determined  by  considering
various factors, including a total fund return estimate based on a weighted-average of estimated returns for each asset class in each
plan.  Asset  class  returns  are  estimated using  current  and  projected  economic  and  market  factors  such  as  real  rates  of  return,
inflation, credit spreads, equity risk premiums and excess return expectations. 

As part of the review,  the Corporation’s independent consulting actuaries performed an analysis of expected returns based on each
plan’s expected asset  allocation for the year  2023 using the  Willis Towers  Watson US Expected  Return Estimator. This analysis is
reviewed by the Corporation and used as a tool to develop expected rates of return, together with other data. This forecast reflects
the actuarial firm’s view of expected long-term rates of return for each significant asset class or economic indicator as of January 1,
2023; for example, 8.5%  for large cap stocks, 8.8% for  small cap  stocks, 9.0% for  international stocks,  6.1% for  long corporate
bonds  and  4.9%  for  long  Treasury  bonds.  A  range  of  expected investment returns  is  developed, and  this  range  relies  both  on
forecasts and on broad-market historical benchmarks for expected returns, correlations, and volatilities for each asset class. 

As a consequence of recent  reviews, the Corporation increased its expected return  on plan assets for year  2023 to 5.9% and 6.5%
for the Pension  Plans. Expected rates of return of  4.3% and 5.4%  had been used for 2022 and  4.6% and 5.5% had been used for
2021 for the Pension Plans. Since the expected return assumption is on a long-term basis, it is not materially impacted by the yearly
fluctuations (either positive or negative) in the actual return on assets. The expected return can be materially  impacted by a change
in the plan’s asset allocation.

Net Periodic  Benefit Cost  (“pension expense”)  for the  Pension Plans  amounted to  a net  benefit of  $0.5 million  in 2022.  The total
pension expense included a benefit of $35.4 million for the expected return on assets. 

Pension expense is sensitive to changes in the  expected return on assets. For example, decreasing the expected  rate of return for
2022 from  5.9% to  5.65% would  increase the  projected 2023  pension expense  for the  Banco Popular  de Puerto  Rico Retirement
Plan, the Corporation’s largest plan, by approximately $1.4 million. 

If  the  projected  benefit  obligation  exceeds  the  fair  value  of  plan  assets,  the  Corporation shall  recognize  a  liability  equal  to  the
unfunded projected  benefit obligation  and vice  versa, if  the fair  value of  plan assets  exceeds the  projected benefit  obligation, the
Corporation recognizes an asset equal to the overfunded projected benefit obligation. This asset or liability may result in a taxable or
deductible temporary difference and its  tax effect shall be  recognized as an income tax expense or benefit which shall be allocated
to various  components of  the financial  statements, including  other comprehensive  income.  The determination  of the  fair value  of
pension  plan  obligations  involves  judgment,  and  any  changes  in  those  estimates  could  impact  the  Corporation’s  Consolidated
Statements of Financial  Condition. Management believes that  the fair value  estimates of the  Pension Plans assets  are reasonable
given  the  valuation  methodologies  used  to  measure  the  investments  at  fair  value  as  described in  Note  28  to  the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements.  Also,  the  compositions  of  the  plan  assets  are  primarily  in  equity  and  debt  securities,  which  have  readily
determinable quoted market prices. The Corporation had recorded a pension liability of $8.3 million at December 31, 2022.

61

The Corporation uses  the spot rate  yield curve from  the Willis Towers  Watson RATE:  Link (10/90) Model to discount the  expected
projected  cash  flows  of  the  plans.  The  equivalent  single  weighted  average  discount  rate  ranged  from  5.34%  to  5.37%  for  the
Pension Plans and 5.42% for the OPEB Plan to determine the benefit obligations at December 31, 2022.

A 50  basis point  decrease to each of  the rates  in the  December 31,  2022 Willis Towers  Watson RATE:  Link (10/90) Model would
increase the  projected 2023  expense for  the Banco  Popular de  Puerto Rico  Retirement Plan  by approximately  $1.8 million.  The
change would not affect the minimum required contribution to the Pension Plans. 

The OPEB Plan was unfunded (no assets were held by the plan) at December 31, 2022. The Corporation had recorded a liability for
the underfunded postretirement benefit obligation of $118.3 million at December 31, 2022. 

62

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS ANALYSIS

Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned from loans, debt securities and money market investments, including loan fees, minus the
interest cost of deposits and borrowed money.  Various risk factors affect net interest income including the economic environment in
which we operate, market related events, the mix and size of the earning assets and related funding, changes in volumes, repricing
characteristics, loan fees  collected, moratoriums granted  on loan payments  and delay charges, interest collected on  nonaccrual
loans, as well as strategic decisions made by the Corporation’s management.

Net  interest  income for the year ended December 31,  2022 was $2.2  billion  or $209.8 million higher than  in  2021. Net  interest
income, on a taxable equivalent basis, for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $2.4 billion compared to $2.2 billion in 2021.

The average key index rates for the years 2022 and 2021 were as follows:

Prime rate………………………………………………………………………………………………….

Fed funds rate…………………………………………………………………………………………….

3-month Treasury Bill…………………………………………………………………………………….

10-year Treasury………………………………………………………………………………………….

FNMA 30-year…………………………………………………………………………………………….

2022

2021

4.86% 3.25%

1.86

2.01

2.95

4.26

0.25

0.03

1.44

1.84

Average  outstanding securities  balances are  based upon  amortized cost  excluding any  unrealized gains  or losses  on securities.
Non-accrual  loans  have  been  included  in  the  respective  average  loans  and  leases  categories.  Loan  fees  collected,  and  costs
incurred  in  the  origination  of  loans  are  deferred  and  amortized  over  the  term  of  the  loan  as  an  adjustment  to  interest  yield.
Prepayment penalties, late fees  collected and the amortization of premiums /  discounts on purchased loans, including the discount
accretion on purchased credit  deteriorated loans (“PCD”), are also included as part of the  loan yield. Interest income  for the period
ended December 31,  2022, included $44.6  million related to  those items, compared  to $131.5 million  for the same period in  2021.
The year over year decrease is related to lower amortized fees resulting from the forgiveness of PPP loans by $55.7 million, lower
discount amortization on commercial loans by $16.3 million mainly driven by lower interest from cancellation of PCD loans and $6.6
million lower amortization of the fair value discount of the auto portfolios acquired in previous years. 

Table  3 presents the  different  components of  the  Corporation’s  net  interest  income,  on  a  taxable equivalent  basis,  for  the  year
ended December 31,  2022, as compared  with the same  period in 2021,  segregated by major  categories of interest  earning assets
and  interest-bearing  liabilities.  Net  interest  margin  was  3.11%  in  2022  or  23  basis  points  higher  than  the  2.88%  reported  in
2021. The  higher  net  interest  margin  for  the  year  is  driven  by  $1.6  billion  higher average volume of  earning  assets  and  higher
interest rates as  the Federal Reserve increased the Federal Funds Rate by  425 basis points during 2022. On  a taxable equivalent
basis, net interest margin was 3.46% in 2022, compared to 3.19% in 2021, an increase of 27 basis points. The main drivers for the
increase in net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis were:

Positive variances:

● Higher interest income  from money market  investments by $96.9 million due to  higher interest rates by 111  basis points,

partially offset by lower volume by $6.5 billion, as part of the liquidity was deployed to purchase investment securities and
fund loan growth;

● Higher interest income from investment securities by $156.1 million due to a higher volume by $6.8 million;

● Higher interest income from loans by $130.1 million due to:

● Increase in commercial loan Interest  income by $71.4 million driven  by a higher average volume of loans by

$1.1  billion  and  higher  yield  by  7  basis  points  as  the  origination  of  loans  occurs  in  a  higher  interest  rate
scenario and  the positive  impact on  the repricing  of adjustable-rate  loans, partially  offset by  lower amortized
fees  resulting  from  the  forgiveness  of  PPP  loans  by  $55.7  million  and  lower  discount  amortization  on
commercial loans by $16.3 million mainly from cancellation of PCD loans;

63

 
● Higher interest income from consumer loans by $44.8 million resulting from a  higher volume by $280 million

and higher  yield by  49 basis  points, driven  by the  increase in  personal loans  year over  year and  increase in
credit cards volume.

Partially offset by:

● Higher interest  expense on  deposits by  $141.2 million due to  the increase  in interest  cost by 29 basis  points resulting

mainly from a  higher cost of  the fully indexed Puerto Rico government  deposits and the  increase in cost  of Popular U.S.
deposits. Under the  terms of BPPR’s  deposit pricing  agreement with  Puerto Rico public sector,  public funds  rates are
market linked  with a  lag minus  a specified  spread. As  such, if  short-term interest  rates continue  to increase, we  would
expect the costs  of public funds  to continue to  increase. This source  of funding still  results in an  attractive spread under
market rates.

64

Table 3 – Analysis of Levels & Yields  on a Taxable Equivalent Basis  from Continuing Operations (Non-GAAP)

Year ended December 31,

Average Volume

Average Yields / Costs

Interest

Variance

Attributable to

2022

2021

Variance

2022

2021

  Variance

2022

2021

Variance

Rate

Volume

(In millions)

(In thousands)

$

9,531 $

16,000 $ (6,469)

1.24 % 0.13 %

1.11 % Money market investments

$

118,079 $

21,147 $

96,932 $ 108,780 $ (11,848)

29,743

22,931

6,812

2.23

51

84

(33)

5.94

2.22

5.16

0.01

Investment securities [1]

664,278

508,131

156,147

16,116

140,031

0.78

Trading securities 

3,049

4,339

(1,290)

600

(1,890)

Total money market, 

investment and trading

39,325

39,015

310

2.00

1.37

0.63

securities

785,406

533,617

251,789

125,496

126,293

14,562

13,455

1,107

778

1,475

7,322

2,743

3,525

849

1,289

7,696

2,463

3,322

(71)

186

(374)

203

30,405

29,074

1,331

5.46

6.29

5.92

5.34

5.39

5.41

6.00

5.09

8.02

6.33

8.47

6.19

280

11.66

11.17

Loans:

0.07

0.88

Commercial 

Construction

(0.08)

Leasing

0.25

0.49

Mortgage

Consumer

(0.45)

Auto

0.14

Total loans

795,115

723,765

71,350

10,997

60,353

48,920

87,274

45,821

77,356

3,099

7,172

(4,073)

9,918

(1,093)

11,011

391,133

392,047

(914)

18,584

(19,498)

319,920

275,078

44,842

11,546

33,296

282,533

280,722

1,811

(14,833)

16,644

1,924,895

1,794,789

130,106

32,373

97,733

$ 69,730 $

68,089 $ 1,641

3.89 % 3.43 %

0.46 % Total earning assets

$ 2,710,301 $ 2,328,406 $ 381,895 $ 157,869 $ 224,026

Interest bearing deposits:

$ 25,884 $

25,959 $

(75)

0.61 % 0.12 %

0.49 % NOW and money market [2] $

158,664 $

31,911 $ 126,753 $ 127,953 $

(1,200)

15,886

15,429

457

6,853

7,028

(175)

48,623

48,416

206

92

207

114

0.20

0.90

0.52

2.78

0.18

0.75

0.23

0.35

0.02

0.15

Savings 

Time deposits

32,400

61,781

27,123

52,587

5,277

4,983

294

9,194

10,241

(1,047)

0.29

Total interest bearing  deposits

252,845

111,621

141,224

143,177

(1,953)

2.43

Short-term borrowings

5,737

318

5,419

2,030

3,389

939

1,185

(246)

4.26

4.49

(0.23)

long-term debt

39,970

53,107

(13,137)

63

(13,200)

Total interest bearing

49,768

49,693

75

0.60

0.33

0.27

liabilities

298,552

165,046

133,506

145,270

(11,764)

Other medium and 

16,094

14,687

1,407

3,868

3,709

159

Demand deposits

Other sources of funds

$ 69,730 $

68,089 $ 1,641

0.43 % 0.24 %

0.19 % Total source of funds

298,552

165,046

133,506

145,270

(11,764)

3.46 % 3.19 %

0.27 %

Net interest margin/ income
on a taxable equivalent basis
(Non-GAAP)

3.29 % 3.10 %

0.19 % Net interest spread

2,411,749

2,163,360

248,389 $ 12,599 $ 235,790

Taxable equivalent
adjustment
Net interest margin/ income
non-taxable equivalent basis
(GAAP)

244,390

205,770

38,620

$ 2,167,359 $ 1,957,590 $ 209,769

3.11% 2.88%

0.23 %

Note: The changes that are not due solely to volume or  rate are allocated to volume and rate based on the  proportion of the change in each category.
[1] Average balances exclude unrealized gains or losses  on debt securities available-for-sale and the unrealized  loss related to certain securities transferred
from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity.
[2] Includes interest bearing demand deposits corresponding  to certain government entities in Puerto Rico.

65

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
Provision for Credit Losses - Loans Held-in-Portfolio and Unfunded Commitments
For the  year ended  December 31,  2022, the  Corporation recorded  an expense  of $84.2  million for  its allowance  for credit  losses
(“ACL”) related to loans held-in-portfolio and unfunded commitments, compared with a reserve release of $191.3 million for the year
ended  December  31,  2021.  The  provision  expense  related  to  the  loans-held-in-portfolio  for  the  year  2022  was  $83.3  million,
compared  to  a  reserve  release  of  $183.3  million  for  the  year  2021.  The  reserve  increase  is  mostly  driven  by  changes  in  the
economic scenario, higher loan volumes and changes in  credit quality.  The updated economic scenarios used to estimate the  ACL
on December 31, 2022 considered an expected slowdown in  the economy as a  result of tight monetary policy, weaker job growth
and persistent inflation. The reserve release recorded in 2021 was driven by the release of Covid-related reserves recorded in 2020.
The provision for  unfunded commitments for the year 2022  reflected an expense  of $0.9 million,  compared to a  reserve release of
$8.0 million for the same period of 2021. 

The provision expense related  to loans held-in-portfolio for  the BPPR segment was  $69.5 million for the  year ended December 31,
2022, compared to  a reserve release  of $129.0 million  for the year ended December  31, 2021, an  unfavorable variance of  $198.6
million. The provision expense related to loans held-in-portfolio for the Popular U.S. segment was $13.8 million for the year 2022, an
unfavorable variance of $68.1 million, compared to a reserve release of $54.3 million for the year 2021.

At  December 31, 2022, the total allowance for credit  losses for loans held-in-portfolio amounted  to $720.3 million, compared to
$695.4  million  as  of  December  31,  2021.  The  ratio  of  the  allowance  for  credit  losses  to  loans  held-in-portfolio  was  2.25%  at
December 31, 2022, compared  to 2.38% at December 31,  2021. Refer  to Note 9 to the  Consolidated Financial  Statements, for
additional information on the Corporation’s methodology to estimate its ACL. As discussed therein, within the process to estimate its
ACL, the Corporation applies probability weights to the outcomes of simulations using Moody’s Analytics’ Baseline, S3 (pessimistic)
and S1 (optimistic) scenarios.  The baseline  scenario is  assigned the  highest probability,  followed by the  pessimistic scenario.  In
addition,  refer  to  the  Credit  Risk  section  of  this  MD&A  for  a  detailed  analysis  of  net  charge-offs,  non-performing  assets,  the
allowance for credit losses and selected loan losses statistics.

Provision for Credit Losses – Investment Securities

The  Corporation’s  provision  for  credit  losses  related  to  its  investment  securities  held-to-maturity  is  related  to  the  portfolio  of
obligations from  the  Government of Puerto  Rico,  states  and  political subdivisions. For  the year  ended December 31,  2022, the
Corporation recorded a reserve release of $1.2 million, compared to a reserve release of $2.2 million for the  year ended December
31, 2021. At  December 31, 2022, the total allowance for credit losses  for this portfolio  amounted to $6.9 million, compared to  $8.1
million as of December 31, 2021. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the ACL for
this portfolio.

Non-Interest Income

For the year ended December  31, 2022, non-interest  income increased by  $254.9 million, when  compared with the  previous year.
The results for the year 2022 included a $257.7 million gain related to the Evertec Transactions and related accounting adjustments.
Other factors that contributed to the variance in non-interest income were:

● 

● 

higher other service fees by $22.8 million, principally at the BPPR segment, due to higher credit card fees by $18.9 million
mainly in interchange income resulting from higher customer purchase activity and higher fees from the merchant network
business by $6.7 million due to the revenue sharing agreement entered into in connection with the Evertec Transactions; 

a  favorable  adjustment  of  $9.2  million  in  the  fair  value  of  the  contingent  consideration  related  to  purchase  price
adjustments  for  the  acquisition  of the  K2  Capital  Group  LLC  business  in  2021  (‘’K2  Acquisition’’),  as  the  Corporation
updated its estimates related to the ability to realize the earnings targets for the contingent payment; and

● 

a gain of $8.2 million from the sale of an investment which had been previously written off;

partially offset by:

66

● 

● 

● 

● 

lower service charges on deposit accounts by $5.5 million, mainly at BPPR, due to lower overdraft related charges, in part
due to the  Corporation’s determination of eliminating insufficient funds  fees and modifying overdraft fees effective  on the
third quarter of 2022 and lower cash management service charges from commercial clients due to higher earnings credits
on transactional accounts driven by the current interest rate environment;

lower  income  from  mortgage  banking  activities  by  7.7  million  mainly  due  to  lower  gains  from  loan  securitization  and
valuation adjustments  on loans  held for  sale by $21.9 million,  impacted by  the Corporation’s determination  in the  third
quarter of 2022 to retain certain guaranteed loans as held for investment; partially offset by a favorable variance of $10.4
million in the fair value adjustments for  mortgage servicing rights driven by slower projected prepayments in the serviced
portfolio and higher gains from closed derivative positions by $5.3 million;

an unfavorable variance of $7.5 million on the fair value adjustments to the portfolio of equity securities related to deferred
benefit plans, which have an offsetting effect recorded as lower personnel costs; and

the gain of $7.0 million recognized in the third quarter of 2021 by BPPR as a result of the sale and partial leaseback of two
corporate office buildings.

Operating Expenses

As discussed  in the  significant events  section of  this MD&A,  to facilitate  the transparency  of the  progress with  the transformation
initiative and  to better  portray the  level of  technology related  expenses categorized  by the  nature of  the expense,  effective in  the
fourth  quarter  of  2022,  the  Corporation  has  separated  technology,  professional  fees  and  transactional  activities  as  standalone
expense categories  in the  accompanying Consolidated  Statements of  Operations. There  were no  changes to  the total  operating
expenses presented.  Prior periods amount in the financial statements and related disclosures have been reclassified to conform  to
the current presentation. 

Table 4 provides the detail of the reclassifications for each respective year. 

Table 4 - Operating Expen ses Reclassification

2021

2020

Financial statement line item

As reported Adjustments

Adjusted

As reported Adjustments

Adjusted

Equipment expenses

Professional services

Technology and  software expenses

Processing and transactional services

Communications

Other expenses

$

92,097 $

(59,178) $

32,919 $

88,932 $

(56,418)$

32,514

410,865

(284,144)

126,721

394,122

(261,708)

132,414

-

-

25,234

136,988

277,979

121,367

(11,205)

(44,819)

277,979

121,367

14,029

92,169

-

-

23,496

128,882

263,886

112,039

(10,266)

(47,533)

263,886

112,039

13,230

81,349

Net effect on operating expenses

$

665,184 $

- $

665,184 $

635,432 $

- $

635,432

67

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 provides a breakdown of operating expenses by major categories. 

Table 5 - Operating Expenses

(In thousands)

Personnel costs:

Salaries

Commissions, incentives and other bonuses

Pension, postretirement and medical insurance

Other personnel costs, including payroll taxes

Total personnel  costs

Net occupancy expenses

Equipment expenses

Other taxes

Professional fees

Technology and  software expenses

Processing and transactional services:

Credit and debit cards

Other processing and transactional services

Total processing  and transactional services

Communications

Business promotion:

Rewards and customer loyalty programs

Other business promotion

Total business  promotion

FDIC deposit insurance

Other real estate owned (OREO) income

Other operating expenses:

Operational losses

All other

Total other operating  expenses

Amortization of intangibles

Goodwill impairment charge

Total operating  expenses

Personnel costs to average assets

Operating expenses to average assets

Employees (full-time equivalent)

Average assets per employee (in millions)

Years ended December  31, 

2022

2021

2020

$

432,910

$

371,644

$

370,179

155,889

56,085

74,880

719,764

106,169

35,626

63,603

172,043

291,902

45,455

81,690

127,145

14,885

51,832

37,086

88,918

26,787

142,212

52,077

65,869

631,802

102,226

32,919

56,783

126,721

277,979

40,383

80,984

121,367

14,029

38,919

34,062

72,981

25,579

(22,143)

(14,414)

32,049

77,397

109,446

3,275

9,000

38,391

53,778

92,169

9,134

-

78,582

44,123

71,321

564,205

119,345

32,514

54,454

132,414

263,886

40,903

71,136

112,039

13,230

30,380

27,228

57,608

23,868

(3,480)

26,331

55,018

81,349

6,397

-

$

1,746,420 $

1,549,275 $

1,457,829

0.99 %

0.89 %

0.95 %

2.40

8,813

$8.26

2.18

8,351

$8.52

2.45

8,522

$6.99

Operating expenses  for the  year ended  December 31,  2022 increased  by $197.1  million, when  compared with  the previous  year.
The increase in operating expenses was driven primarily by:

● 

● 

Higher personnel costs  by  $88.0 million mainly  due to  higher salaries  expense by  $61.3 million  as  a  result  of market
adjustments, annual salary  revisions and  an increase  in headcount,  higher commission  and incentives  by $13.7  million,
due to higher headcount, salary revisions and, in part, profit-sharing expense and higher payroll taxes and fringe benefits,
including health and retirement benefits, reflecting the overall increase in salary base;

Higher net occupancy expense by $3.9 million mainly due to BPPR’s lower rental income due to the sale of two corporate
office buildings during the third quarter of 2021, coupled with higher rent expense related to the space remaining occupied
by BPPR; 

68

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
● 

● 

● 

● 

● 

● 

● 

Higher other taxes by $6.8 million mainly due to an increase in personal property tax expense and a higher base used to
estimate an annual Puerto Rico regulatory license fee;

Higher professional fees by $45.3 million primarily due to Corporate initiatives including $22 million related to a multi-year
corporate transformation initiative to  expand the Corporation’s digital capabilities, modernize its technology platform and
implement agile and efficient business processes;

Higher technology and software  expenses by $13.9 million mainly due to higher software amortization expense by $10.3
million, including $2.4 million related to the software intangible assets acquired  as part of the  Evertec Transactions, and
higher  IT  professional  fees  and  network  management  expense  by  $15.5  million  due  to  various  ongoing  technology
projects; partially offset by a decrease in charges related to internet banking of $9.6 million  and lower application hosting
expense reflecting savings as a result of the Evertec Transactions;

Higher  processing  and  transactional  services  by  $5.8  million  mainly  due  to  higher  credit  and  debit  card  processing
expense as  a result  of higher transactional  volumes, reflecting an increase in  customer purchase activity;  partially offset
by lower merchant processing due to higher incentives received  during the year related to  the ATH  Network Participation
Agreement entered into in connection with the Evertec Transactions;

Higher business promotion expense by $15.9 million mainly due to higher customer reward program expense in our credit
card business by $12.9 million, reflecting an increase in customer purchase activity,  higher sponsorship expense by $1.5
million and higher donations by $1.2 million, including hurricane related donations;

Higher  total  other  operating  expenses,  including  operational  losses,  by  $17.3  million  mainly  due  to  the  $17.3  million
expense related to the Evertec Transactions;  net of $6.9 million in credits received in connection with this transaction and
higher gain on sale of foreclosed auto units by $6.6 million; offset by $6.5 million of lower sundry losses; and

a goodwill impairment charge of $9.0 million due to a decrease in Popular Equipment Finance’s (PEF) projected earnings
considered as part of the Corporation’s annual goodwill impairment analysis.

These variances were partially offset by:

● 

● 

Higher  other  real  estate  owned  (OREO)  income  by  $7.7  million  mainly  due  to  higher  gain  on  sale  of  commercial
properties; and

Lower amortization  of intangibles  by $5.9  million due  to an  impairment write-down of $5.4  million of  a trademark  during
2021.

Income Taxes

For the  year ended  December 31,  2022, the  Corporation recorded an  income tax  expense of  $132.3 million, compared to  $309.0
million for  the same  period of  2021.  The income  tax expense  for the  year ended  December 31,  2022, reflects  the impact  of the
reversal of a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance of the U. S. Operations amounting to $68.2 million, higher taxable
income subject to  preferential tax  rates,  primarily attributed  to the gain  from the sale  of Evertec shares,  and  higher tax  exempt
income recorded during this year.

At December 31, 2022, the Corporation had a  net deferred tax asset  amounting to $1 billion, net of a valuation  allowance of $0.5
billion. The net deferred tax asset related to the U.S. operations was $0.3 billion, net of a valuation allowance of $0.4 billion.

The Inflation  Reduction Act of 2022 imposes  a new  corporate alternative minimum  tax (“AMT”), effective for taxable year 2023, to
corporations that meet a dual three-year average adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) threshold of $1 billion on a worldwide
basis and $100  million for its  U.S. operations.  The AFSI is,  in general, the  GAAP net income  per financial statements  with certain
adjustments, including foreign taxes  and tax  depreciation.  The Corporation is still  evaluating the application of  these adjustments
that could be  decisive in whether Popular  is subject to  the corporate AMT. 
If it is  determined that the Corporation  is subject to the
corporate AMT, it is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Corporation.

Refer to  Note 35  to the  Consolidated Financial Statements for  a reconciliation of the  statutory income  tax rate  to the  effective tax
rate and additional information on the income tax expense and deferred tax asset balances.

69

Fourth Quarter Results

The Corporation recognized net income of $257.1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2022, compared with a net income of
$206.1 million for the same quarter of 2021.

Net interest income for the fourth quarter of 2022 amounted to $559.6 million, compared with $501.3 million for the fourth quarter of
2021, an increase of $58.3 million.  The increase in net interest income was mainly due higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve
increased the Federal  Funds Rate by  425 basis points  during 2022 and higher average balance of loans resulting  from the growth
during 2022  at both  BPPR and  PB. The  net interest  margin increased  by 50  basis points  to 3.28%  due to  an increase  in market
rates  and  the  earning assets  mix,  that  had  a  higher concentration on  loans  which carry  a  higher yield  than  money market  and
investment securities. On a taxable equivalent basis, the net interest margin for the  fourth quarter of 2022 was 3.64%, compared  to
3.02% for the fourth quarter of 2021.

The provision  for credit  losses was  a $49.5  million for  the fourth  quarter of  2022, compared  to a  reserve release  benefit of  $33.1
million for the fourth quarter of 2021. The provision expense recorded in the fourth quarter or 2022 reflects changes in credit metrics,
portfolio growth  as well  as changes  in the  macroeconomic outlook  and considers  an expected slowdown  in the  economy during
2023, as  a result  of weaker  job growth,  monetary policy  and the  persistent inflation.  The benefit  recorded in  the fourth  quarter of
2021  was  reflective  of  improvements  in  the  credit  metrics  and  the  macroeconomic  outlook  as  well  as  releases  in  qualitative
reserves. 

Non-interest income  amounted to  $158.5 million  for the  quarter ended  December 31,  2022, compared  with $164.7  million for  the
same quarter in 2021. The decrease of $6.2 million was mainly due lower income from mortgage banking activities by  $10.5 million
due to  an unfavorable variance of  $4.1 million in the  fair value  adjustments of mortgage servicing rights and lower gains from the
sale and securitization of  mortgage loans as the Corporation made the determination to  retain certain guaranteed loans as held for 
investment. In addition,  service charges on  deposit accounts were  lower by $6.9  million, due to  lower overdraft related  charges, in
part due to the Corporation’s determination of  eliminating insufficient funds  fees and modifying overdraft fees  effective on the third
quarter  of  2022  and  lower  cash  management  service  charges  from  commercial  clients  due  to  higher  earnings  credits  on
transactional accounts.

Operating expenses  totaled $461.7  million for  the quarter  ended December  31, 2022,  compared with  $417.4 million  for the  same
quarter in  the previous  year.  The increase  of $44.3  million is  mainly related  to higher  personnel costs  by $29.7  million, due  to a
higher  headcount  and  market  and  annual  salary  revisions  as  well  as  higher  incentives  and  commissions;  higher  professional
services expense  by $16.6  million due  to various  corporate projects, including the  transformation initiative;  higher technology  and
software expenses by $7.3  million due to various  ongoing technology projects and software amortization, including from the  assets
acquired from Evertec; partially offset by higher benefit from OREO related activity by $5.3 million due to gains on sale of foreclosed
properties; lower operational losses by $7.8 million and lower amortization of intangibles by $5.3 million due to an impairment write-
down of $5.4 million of a trademark during 2021.

For the quarter ended December 31, 2022, the Corporation recorded an income tax benefit of  $50.3 million, compared with income
tax expense of $75.6 million for the same quarter of 2021. The favorable variance in income tax expense was mainly  attributable to
a  partial reversal of the  deferred tax  asset valuation  allowance of the  U.S. operation during  the fourth  quarter of 2022 of $68.2
million and lower income before tax, higher benefit from tax-exempt income, including true-up adjustment of $9.5 million  in relation
to the  fiscal year  2021 tax  returns for  the P.R.  subsidiaries filed  in the  fourth quarter  and related  year-to-date adjustments  for the
same concept. 

REPORTABLE SEGMENT RESULTS

The Corporation’s  reportable segments  for managerial  reporting purposes  consist of  Banco Popular  de Puerto  Rico and  Popular
U.S. A Corporate group has been defined to support the reportable segments. 

For  a  description  of  the  Corporation’s  reportable  segments,  including  additional  financial  information  and  the  underlying
management accounting process, refer to Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

70

The Corporate group reported a net income of $150.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with a net income of
$13.4  million  for  the  previous  year.  The  increase  in  net  income  was  mainly  attributed  to  the  $128.8  million  in  after-tax  gains
recognized by the Corporation as a result of the Evertec Stock Sale and related accounting adjustments; lower interest expense by
$10.4 million  from the  redemption in  the fourth  quarter of  2021 of  $186.7 million  in Trust  Preferred Securities  issued by  Popular
Capital Trust I; and higher earnings from equity method investments.

Highlights on the earnings results for the reportable segments are discussed below:

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico 

The Banco Popular  de Puerto Rico reportable  segment’s net income  amounted to $782.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2022, compared with $787.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The principal factors that contributed to the variance in
the financial results included the following: 

● 

● 

Higher  net  interest  income  by  $148.9  million  due  to  higher  income  from  money  market  and  investment securities  by
$218.3 million mainly  due to  higher yields  driven by  the increase  in rates  by the  Federal Reserve  and higher average
balances of  U.S. Treasury  securities; higher interest  income from  loans by  $54.7 million,  mainly due  to higher  average
balances from consumer, leasing and  commercial loans; partially offset by higher interest expense on deposits by $123.7
million mainly due to  higher costs  on the  market- indexed  Puerto Rico  government deposits,  NOW accounts  and time
deposits. The BPPR segment’s net interest margin  was 3.05% for 2022 compared with 2.86% for  the same  period in
2021. 

A provision for loan losses expenses of $70.3 million in 2022, compared to a reserve release of $136.4 million for the year
ended 2021,  or an unfavorable  variance of  $206.7 million.  The provision  for loan  losses for  2022 reflects an  expected
slowdown in the economy in 2023. During 2021, BPPR recorded a reserve for credit losses release of $136.4 million due
to improved credit metrics and Covid-related macroeconomic outlook and  changes in qualitative reserves; 

● 

Higher non-interest income by $115.0 million mainly due to:

● 

● 

Higher other operating income by $112.0 million mostly due to the benefit related to the Evertec Business Acquisition
Transaction, 

Higher  other  service fees  by  $21.3  million due  to  higher merchant  acquiring fees  related  to  the  revenue sharing
agreement entered in connection with  the Evertec Transactions  and higher credit  card fees  as  a  result of  higher
interchange transaction volumes. 

● 

Higher operating expenses by $167.8 million, mainly due to: 

● 

● 

● 

● 

● 

Higher other expenses by $75.5  million mainly due  to higher allocations  from the Corporate group by  $56.0 million,
mainly advisory and other professional services, and a $17.3 million expense related to Evertec Transactions;

Higher personnel costs by $71.8 million driven by higher salaries and benefits due to market salary adjustments and
annual salary revisions  and a higher headcount; higher incentive compensation,  higher profit sharing expenses  and
higher fringe benefits; 

Higher  business  promotions  by  $15.6  million  mainly  due  to  higher  customer  rewards  expense  related  to  higher
transactional volumes and higher sponsorships and donations, including hurricane related assistance; 

Higher technology and  software expenses  by $5.7 million including $2.4  million related to the software  intangible
assets acquired as part of the Evertec Transactions, and costs associated with several ongoing projects; 

Higher processing  and transactional services by  $5.8 million  mainly due  to higher  credit and  debit card  processing
expense as  a result  of higher  transactional volumes,  reflecting an  increase in  customer purchase  activity; partially
offset by  lower merchant processing due  to higher  incentives received during the  year related  to the  ATH  Network
Participation Agreement entered into in connection with the Evertec Transactions;

71

Partially offset by:    

● 

● 

Higher OREO income by $7.4 million mainly due to higher gain on sale of OREO of $5.9 million.

Lower professional fees by $3.8 million mainly due to lower consulting fees related to ongoing projects. 

● 

Lower  income  tax  expense  by  $105.1  million  due  to  lower income before  tax  and  higher  income that  was  exempt  or
subject to preferential tax rates.

Popular U.S. 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the  reportable segment of  Popular U.S.  reported net income  of $170.3 million, compared
with a net  income of $134.1 million for  the year ended December  31, 2021. The principal factors that contributed to the variance in
the financial results included the following: 

● 

● 

● 

Higher net interest income by $51.8 million mainly due to higher interest income from loans by $74.2 million mainly due to
higher average balances from  commercial loans as  well as  higher yields  due to increase in  rates; and  higher interest
income from money market investment securities by $2.9 million due to  higher rates, partially offset by lower income from
debt securities by $1.6 million and higher cost of deposits by $22.9 million due  to higher interest rates.  The Popular U.S.
reportable segment’s net interest margin was 3.68% for 2022 compared with 3.39% for the same period in 2021; 

An unfavorable variance of  $69.3 million on the  provision for loan losses  and unfunded commitments, due to  the reserve
release  of  $56.9  million  in  2021,  which  reflected  improvements  in  credit  metrics  and  Covid-related economic  outlook, 
compared to  a provision  expense of  $12.5 million recorded in  2022 which  reflected an  expected economic slowdown in
2023; 

Higher non-interest income by  $7.4 million mainly due  to the positive adjustment  of $9.2 million on  the contingent liability
related to the K-2 Acquisition;

● 

Higher operating expenses by $35.4 million mainly due to: 

● 

● 

Higher personnel costs by $10.2 million due to salary market and annual adjustments;

Higher other  expenses  by  $7.4 million  due to  higher charges allocated from  the  Corporate segment,  mainly
professional fees; and

● 

The goodwill impairment charge of $9.0 million recorded at PEF.

● 

Lower  income  tax  expense  by  $81.7  million  due  mainly  to  a  lower  income  before  tax  and  the  partial  reversal  of  the
deferred tax asset valuation allowance recorded during the fourth quarter of 2022 of $68.2 million. 

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION ANALYSIS 
Assets
The Corporation’s total assets were $67.6 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $75.1 billion  at December 31, 2021. Refer to
the Corporation’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at December 31, 2022 and 2021 included in this 2022 Form 10-K.
Also, refer to the Statistical Summary 2022-2021 in this MD&A for Condensed Statements of Financial Condition. 

Money market investments and debt securities

Money market  investments decreased  by $11 .9 billion  at December  31, 2022,  when compared  to December  31, 2021.  This was
impacted by the decrease in deposits of  $5.8 billion, mainly in the  Puerto Rico Public sector, and the deployment  of liquidity to
purchase  debt  securities.  Debt  securities  available-for-sale  decreased  by  $7.2  billion,  while  debt  securities  held-to-maturity
increased by $8.4 billion. As previously mentioned, during 2022 the Corporation transferred U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value

72

 
of $6.5 billion (par value of $7.4 billion) from its available-for-sale portfolio to its held-to-maturity portfolio. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 to
the Consolidated Financial  Statements for additional information with respect to the Corporation’s debt securities  available-for-sale
and held-to-maturity.

Loans
Refer to Table  6 for a breakdown of  the Corporation’s loan portfolio. Also,  refer to Note 8  to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for detailed information about the Corporation’s loan portfolio composition and loan purchases and sales.

Loans  held-in-portfolio increased  by  $2.8 billion to  $32.1 billion at December 31, 2022, mainly due to  growth in  the commercial
portfolio  of $2.0  billion, reflected at  both  BPPR  and  PB  by  approximately $1.0  billion, at  each segment  and consumer  loans  at
BPPR.  The  commercial  loans  growth  includes  U.S.  region  loans  participated  between  BPPR  and  PB.  During  the  year  ended
December 31, 2022, BPPR  participated in  loans originated by  PB  totaling  $184 million. Consumer loans  at BPPR increased by
$532.4 million in the aggregate including credit cards, personal loans and auto loans. The increase in BPPR’s consumer portfolio is
aligned with the increase in retail sales and consumer spending in Puerto Rico during 2022 and the purchase of national consumer
loans through  its U.S.  branch. The  auto loans  portfolio at  BPPR benefited  from the  sustained level  of auto  sales, which  although
lower than 2021, remained a higher than 2020. In addition, though mortgage loans declined by $29.7 million from the previous year,
this was  impacted by  management’s determination  to retain  certain guaranteed  loans in  the portfolio,  which reduced  the portfolio
attrition. 

The  allowance  for  credit  losses  for  the  loan  portfolio  increased  by  $24.9  million  mainly  due  to  changes  in  the  macroeconomic
outlook, credit quality metrics and portfolio growth. Refer to the Credit Quality section of the MD&A for additional information on the
Allowance for credit losses for the loan portfolio. 

73

Table 6 - Loans Ending Balances

(In thousands)

Loans held-in-portfolio:

  Commercial 

  Construction

  Leasing

  Mortgage

  Auto

  Consumer 

Total loans held-in -portfolio

Loans held-for-sale:

  Mortgage

Total loans held-for-sale

Total loans

At December 31, 

2022

2021

$

15,739,132

$

13,732,701

757,984

1,585,739

7,397,471

3,512,530

3,084,913

32,077,769

5,381

5,381

32,083,150

$

$

$

$

716,220

1,381,319

7,427,196

3,412,187

2,570,934

29,240,557

59,168

59,168

29,299,725

$

$

$

$

Other assets
Other assets amounted to $1.8 billion at December 31, 2022, an  increase of $0.2 billion when compared  to December 31, 2021. At
December 31,  2022, this  includes $125  million in  cash receivable  from the  maturities of  investment securities near the  end of  the
year and  $28.7 million  in software  intangibles acquired  as part  of the  Evertec Transactions.  Refer to  Note 14  to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements  for a  breakdown of  the principal  categories that  comprise the  caption of  “Other Assets”  in the  Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition at December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Liabilities
The Corporation’s  total liabilities  were $63.5  billion at  December 31,  2022, a  decrease of  $5.6 billion  compared to  $69.1 billion  at
December 31, 2021, mainly due to a decrease in deposits as discussed below. Refer to the Corporation’s Consolidated Statements
of Financial Condition included in this Form 10-K. 

Deposits and Borrowings
The composition of the Corporation’s financing to total assets at December 31, 2022 and 2021 is included in Table 7. 

Table 7 - Financing to Total  Assets

(In millions)

2022

2021

from 2021 to 2022

2022

2021

Non-interest bearing deposits

$

15,960 $

15,684

1.8 %

23.6 %

20.9 %

December 31,

December 31,  % increase (decrease) 

% of total assets

Interest-bearing core deposits

Other interest-bearing deposits

Repurchase agreements

Other short-term borrowings

Notes payable

Other liabilities

Stockholders’ equity

41,600

3,667

149

365

887

917

47,954

3,367

92

75

989

968

4,093

5,969

(13.3)

61.5

63.9

8.9

62.0

N.M.

(10.3)

(5.3)

(31.4)

5.4

0.2

0.5

1.3

1.4

6.1

4.5

0.1

0.1

1.3

1.3

7.9

Deposits
The  Corporation’s  deposits  totaled  $61.2  billion  at  December  31,  2022,  compared  to  $67.0  billion  at  December  31,  2021.The
deposits decrease  of $5.8  billion was mainly  due to  lower Puerto Rico  public sector deposits by $5.2 billion. Public sector  deposit
balances  amounted  to  $15.2  billion  at  December  31,  2022.  The  receipt  by  the  Puerto  Rico  Government  of  additional  Federal

74

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assistance, and  seasonal tax  collections, could  increase public  deposit balances  at BPPR  in the  near term.  However, the rate  at
which public deposit balances may decline is uncertain and difficult to predict. The amount and timing of any such reduction is likely
to  be  impacted  by,  for  example, the  speed  at  which  federal  assistance  is  distributed,  the  financial  condition,  liquidity  and  cash
management  practices  of  the  Puerto  Rico  Government  and  its  instrumentalities  and  the  implementation  of  fiscal  and  debt
adjustment plans approved  pursuant to PROMESA  or other actions  mandated by the  Fiscal Oversight and  Management Board for
Puerto Rico (the “Oversight Board”).

Approximately 25% of the  Corporation’s deposits are public  fund deposits from the  Government of Puerto Rico,  municipalities and
government instrumentalities and corporations (‘’public funds’’). These public funds deposits are indexed to short term market  rates
and fluctuate  in cost  with changes  in those  rates with  a one-quarter  lag, in  accordance with  contractual terms.  As a  result, these
public  funds  deposits’  costs  have  generally  lagged  variable  asset  repricing.  During  2022,  the  deposit  costs  for  public  funds
increased by 61% when compared to 2021.  We expect these costs  to continue to increase if  short-term rates continue their recent
trend.  For example, we  expect an increase  in costs on  these public funds  by approximately 120  basis points in  the first quarter  of
2023 when compared to the last quarter in 2022.

Refer to Table 8 for a breakdown of the Corporation’s deposits at December 31, 2022 and 2021. 

Table 8 - Deposits Ending Balances

(In thousands)

Demand deposits [1]

Savings, NOW and money market deposits (non-brokered)

Savings, NOW and money market deposits (brokered)

Time deposits (non-brokered)

Time deposits (brokered CDs)

Total deposits
[1] Includes interest and non-interest bearing demand deposits.

2022

2021

$

26,382,605

$ 25,889,732

27,265,156

33,674,134

798,064

729,073

6,442,886

6,685,938

338,516

26,211

$

61,227,227

$ 67,005,088

Borrowings
The  Corporation’s borrowings amounted to  $1.4  billion at December 31,  2022, compared to $1.2  billion at  December 31, 2021.
Refer to  Note 17  to the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for detailed  information on the Corporation’s  borrowings. Also,  refer to
the Liquidity section in this MD&A for additional information on the Corporation’s funding sources.

Other liabilities
The Corporation’s  other liabilities  amounted to  $1.0 billion  at December  31, 2022,  a decrease  of $51.3  million when  compared to
December 31, 2021. 

Stockholders’ Equity
Stockholders’ equity totaled $4.1 billion at  December 31, 2022, a decrease of  $1.9 billion when compared to  December 31, 2021.
The decrease was principally due  to higher accumulated unrealized losses on  debt securities available-for-sale  by $2.2 billion  and
the impact of  $631.0 million from the  two accelerated share repurchase transactions completed during 2022, declared dividends of
$163.7 million on  common stock and  $1.4 million in dividends on  preferred stock, partially offset by net income for  the year ended
December 31,  2022 of $1.1  billion. Refer  to the Consolidated  Statements of  Financial Condition,  Comprehensive Income  and of
Changes  in  Stockholders’  Equity  for  information  on  the  composition  of  stockholders’  equity.  Also,  refer  to  Note  22  to  the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  a  detail  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  (income),  an  integral  component  of
stockholders’ equity.

75

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REGULATORY CAPITAL

The Corporation and its bank subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve Board. The
risk-based capital standards  applicable to Popular,  Inc. and the  Banks, BPPR and PB, are  based on the  final capital framework  of
Basel III. The  capital rules of Basel III include  a “Common Equity Tier  1” (“CET1”) capital measure and specifies that Tier 1 capital
consist of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1  Capital” instruments meeting specified requirements. Note  21 to the  Consolidated Financial
Statements presents further information on the  Corporation’s regulatory capital requirements,  including the regulatory capital  ratios
of its depository institutions, BPPR and PB.

An institution is considered “well-capitalized”  if it  maintains a total  capital ratio of 10%, a Tier  1 capital ratio  of 8%, a CET1 capital
ratio  of  6.5%  and  a  leverage  ratio  of  5%.  The  Corporation’s  ratios  presented  in  Table 9  show  that  the  Corporation  was  “well
capitalized” for  regulatory purposes,  the highest  classification, under  Basel III  for years  2022 and  2021. BPPR  and PB  were also
well-capitalized for all years presented.

The Basel III Capital Rules also require an additional 2.5% “capital conservation buffer”, composed entirely of CET1, on top of these
minimum risk-weighted asset ratios, which excludes the leverage ratio. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
during periods of  economic stress. Banking institutions with a  ratio of CET1  to risk-weighted assets  above the minimum  but below
the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the
shortfall. Popular,  BPPR and  PB are  required to  maintain this  additional capital  conservation buffer  of 2.5%  of CET1,  resulting in
minimum ratios  of (i) CET1  to risk-weighted  assets of  at least  7%, (ii) Tier  1 capital  to risk-weighted  assets of  at least  8.5%, and
(iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%.

Table 9 presents the Corporation’s capital adequacy information for the years 2022 and 2021. 

Table 9 - Capital Adequacy  Data

(Dollars in thousands)

Risk-based capital:

Common Equity Tier 1 capital

Additional Tier 1 Capital 

Tier 1 capital

Supplementary (Tier 2) capital 

Total  capital 

Total  risk-weighted assets 

Adjusted average quarterly assets

Ratios:

Common Equity Tier 1 capital

Tier 1 capital 

Total capital 

Leverage ratio 

Average equity to assets

Average tangible equity to assets

Average equity to loans

At December 31, 

2022

2021

$ 5,639,686

$ 5,476,031

22,143

22,143

$ 5,661,829

$ 5,498,174

623,818

585,931

$ 6,285,647

$ 6,084,105

$ 34,415,889

$ 31,441,224

$ 70,287,610

$ 74,238,367

16.39 %

17.42 %

16.45

18.26

8.06

8.25

7.27

19.76

17.49

19.35

7.41

8.12

7.20

19.87

On April 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the final rule issued by the federal banking regulatory agencies pursuant to the Economic
Growth and  Regulatory Paperwork  Reduction Act  of 1996  that simplified  several requirements  in the  agencies’ regulatory  capital
rules. These  rules simplified  the regulatory  capital requirement  for mortgage  servicing assets  (MSAs), deferred  tax assets  arising
from temporary differences  and investments in  the capital  of unconsolidated financial  institutions by raising the CET1 deduction
threshold  from  10%  to  25%.  The  15%  CET1  deduction  threshold  which  applies  to  the  aggregate  amount  of  such  items  was
eliminated. The  rule also  requires, among  other changes,  increasing from  100% to  250% the  risk weight  to MSAs  and temporary

76

 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difference deferred  tax asset  not deducted  from capital.  For investments  in the  capital of  unconsolidated financial  institutions, the
risk weight would be based on the exposure category of the investment. 

The decrease in the CET1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and, total capital ratio as of December 31, 2022, compared to December
31,  2021, was  mostly  due  to  an  increase  in  risk  weighted  assets  driven  by  the  growth  in  the  commercial  and  consumer  loan
portfolios, partially offset by the annual earnings net of the accelerated share repurchase agreements to repurchase an aggregate of
$400 million and $231 million of Popular’s common  stock. The increase in  leverage capital ratio was mainly due to the  decrease in
average total assets, driven by the reduction in zero-risk weighted investments in money market FED accounts and zero or low-risk
weighted debt securities, that therefore did not have a significant impact on the risk-weighted assets.

Pursuant  to  the  adoption of  CECL  on  January  1,  2020,  the  Corporation elected  to  use  the  five-year  transition  period  option  as
provided in the final interim regulatory capital rules effective March 31,2020.  The five-year transition period provision delays for two
years the  estimated impact  of CECL on  regulatory capital,  followed by  a three-year  transition period  to phase out  the aggregate
amount of the capital benefits  provided during the  initial two-year delay.  As of December 31, 2022,  the Corporation had  phased-in
25% of the cumulative CECL deferral with the remaining impact to be recognized over the remaining two years. In the first quarter of
2023, the Corporation will phase in a cumulative 50% of the deferral.

On  August  26,  2020,  federal  banking  regulators issued  a  final  rule  to  modify  the  Basel  III  regulatory capital  rules  applicable  to
banking organizations to allow  those organizations participating in the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) established under the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief  and Economic Security  Act (the “CARES Act”) to  neutralize the regulatory  capital effects of participating in
the  program.  Specifically,  the  agencies  have  clarified  that  banking  organizations,  including  the  Corporation  and  its  Bank
subsidiaries, are permitted to  assign a zero percent risk weight to  PPP loans for  purposes of determining risk-weighted assets and
risk-based capital  ratios. Additionally,  in  order to  facilitate  use of the Paycheck Protection  Program Liquidity  Facility  (the “PPPL
Facility”), which provides Federal Reserve Bank loans to eligible financial institutions such as the Corporation’s Bank subsidiaries to
fund PPP loans, the  agencies further clarified that, for purposes of determining  leverage ratios, a banking  organization is permitted
to exclude from total average assets PPP loans that have been pledged as collateral for a PPPL Facility. As of December 31, 2022,
the Corporation has $38 million in PPP loans and no loans were pledged as collateral for PPPL Facilities.

Table 10 reconciles the Corporation’s total common stockholders’ equity to common equity Tier 1 capital.

Table 10 - Reconciliation Common  Equity Tier 1 Capital

(In thousands)

Common stockholders’ equity

  AOCI related adjustments due to opt-out election

  Goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liability  (DTL)

Intangible assets, net of associated DTLs

  Deferred tax assets and other deductions

Common equity tier 1 capital

At December 31, 

2022

2021

$

4,198,409

$

6,116,756

2,468,193

(691,560)

(12,944)

(322,412)

257,762

(591,703)

(16,219)

(290,565)

$

5,639,686

$

5,476,031

Common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

16.39 %

17.42 %

Non-GAAP financial measures

The tangible  common equity  ratio and  tangible book  value per  common share,  which are  presented in  the table  that follows,  are
non-GAAP measures.  Management and  many stock  analysts use  the tangible  common equity  ratio and  tangible book  value per
common share in conjunction with more traditional bank capital ratios to compare the capital adequacy of banking organizations with
significant amounts  of goodwill  or other  intangible assets,  typically stemming  from the  use of  the purchase  accounting method  of
accounting  for  mergers  and  acquisitions.  Neither  tangible  common  equity  nor  tangible  assets  or  related  measures  should  be
considered in isolation or as a substitute for stockholders’  equity, total assets or any other measure calculated  in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Moreover, the manner in which the Corporation
calculates its tangible common equity,  tangible assets and  any other related  measures may  differ  from that  of other companies
reporting measures with similar names. 

77

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
The decrease  in the  Tangible  common equity to  tangible assets  ratio during  2022 was  mainly related  to the  decrease in  the fair
value of  the Corporation’s fixed rate available for sale  debt securities portfolio and its impact on the unrealized loss component  of
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (loss)  (‘’AOCI’’).  Given  its  ability  due  to  the  Corporation’s  liquidity  position  and  its
intention to reduce the impact on AOCI and tangible capital of further increases in interest rates, management changed its intent  to
hold certain securities to maturity.  Therefore, in October 2022, the Corporation transferred U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value
of $6.5 billion (par value of $7.4 billion) from its available-for-sale portfolio to its held-to-maturity portfolio. 

The securities were reclassified  at fair value  at the  time of the transfer.  At the date of  the transfer,  these securities had pre-tax
unrealized  losses  of  $873.0  million  recorded  in  AOCI.  This  fair  value  discount  is  being  accreted  to  interest  income  and  the
unrealized loss remaining in AOCI is being amortized,  offsetting each other through  the remaining life of  the securities. There were
no realized gains or losses recorded as a result of this transfer. 

While changes  in the  amount of  unrealized gains  and losses  in AOCI  have an  impact on  the Corporation’s  and its  wholly-owned
banking  subsidiaries’  tangible  capital  ratios,  they  do  not  impact  regulatory  capital  ratios,  in  accordance  with  the  regulatory
framework.  Refer  to  Note  7  to  the  Consolidated  Financial Statements  which  presents  information about  the  Corporation’s  Debt
Securities Held-to-Maturity for additional details.

Table  11  provides a reconciliation of  total  stockholders’ equity to tangible common equity  and total  assets to tangible  assets at
December 31, 2022 and 2021.

78

Table 11  - Reconciliation of Tangible  Common Equity and Tangible  Assets

(In thousands, except share or per share information)

Total stockholders’  equity

Less: Preferred stock

Less: Goodwill

Less: Other intangibles

Total tangible common  equity

Total assets 

Less: Goodwill

Less: Other intangibles

Total tangible assets

Tangible common  equity to tangible assets

Common shares outstanding at end of period

Tangible book value  per common share

Total stockholders’  equity [1]

Less: Preferred Stock

Less: Goodwill

Less: Other intangibles

Total tangible common  equity

At December 31,

2022

4,093,425

(22,143)

(827,428)

(12,944)

3,230,910

67,637,917

(827,428)

(12,944)

66,797,545

4.84 %

71,853,720

44.97

2021

5,969,397

(22,143)

(720,293)

(16,219)

5,210,742

75,097,899

(720,293)

(16,219)

74,361,387

7.01 %

79,851,169

65.26

$

$

$

$

$

Year-to-date average

6,009,225

(22,143)

(757,133)

(17,113)

5,212,836

$

$

5,777,652

(22,143)

(679,959)

(20,861)

5,054,689

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

Average return on tangible common equity
[1] Average balances exclude unrealized gains or losses  on debt securities available-for-sale and unrealized losses  on debt  securities transfer to held-
to-maturities. 

21.13 %

18.47 %

79

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
RISK MANAGEMENT

Market / Interest Rate Risk

The financial results and capital levels of the Corporation are constantly exposed to market, interest rate and liquidity risks.

Market risk refers to the  risk of a  reduction in the  Corporation’s capital due  to changes in  the market valuation  of its assets  and/or
liabilities. 

Most of the assets subject to market valuation risk  are debt securities classified as available-for-sale. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 to the
Consolidated Financial  Statements for  further information  on the  debt securities available-for-sale  and held-to-maturity portfolios.
Debt securities classified  as available-for-sale amounted to $17.8 billion  as of December  31, 2022. Other  assets subject to  market
risk include loans  held-for-sale, which amounted to $5 million, mortgage servicing  rights (“MSRs”) which  amounted to $128  million
and securities classified as “trading”, which amounted to $28 million, as of December 31, 2022. 

Interest Rate Risk (“IRR”)

The Corporation’s net interest income is subject to various categories of interest rate risk, including repricing, basis, yield curve and
option risks.  In managing  interest rate  risk, management may  alter the  mix of  floating and  fixed rate  assets and  liabilities, change
pricing  schedules,  adjust  maturities  through  sales  and  purchases  of  investment  securities,  and  enter  into  derivative  contracts,
among other alternatives. 

Interest  rate  risk  management  is  an  active  process  that  encompasses  monitoring  loan  and  deposit  flows  complemented  by
investment and funding activities. Effective management of  interest rate risk begins  with understanding the dynamic  characteristics
of assets and  liabilities and determining the appropriate rate risk position  given line of business forecasts, management objectives,
market expectations and policy constraints.

Management utilizes various tools to assess IRR, including Net Interest Income (“NII”) simulation modeling, static gap analysis, and
Economic Value  of Equity  (“EVE”). The  three methodologies  complement each  other and  are used  jointly in  the evaluation  of the
Corporation’s IRR. NII  simulation modeling is prepared for a  five-year period, which  in conjunction with the EVE analysis,  provides
management a better view of long-term IRR.

Net interest income simulation analysis  performed by legal  entity and on  a consolidated basis  is a tool used by the Corporation in
estimating the  potential change  in net  interest income  resulting from  hypothetical changes  in interest  rates. Sensitivity  analysis is
calculated using a simulation model which incorporates actual balance sheet figures detailed by maturity and interest yields or costs. 

Management assesses  interest rate  risk by  comparing various  NII simulations  under different  interest rate  scenarios that  differ in
direction of interest  rate changes, the  degree of change and the projected shape of the  yield curve. For example, the types of rate
scenarios processed during the quarter include flat rates,  implied forwards, and parallel and non-parallel rate shocks.  Management
also performs analyses to isolate and measure basis and prepayment risk exposures. 

The asset  and liability  management group  performs validation  procedures on  various assumptions  used as  part of  the simulation
analyses as well as validations  of results on a monthly basis. In addition, the  model and processes used to assess IRR are subject
to independent validations according to the guidelines established in the Model Governance and Validation policy.

The Corporation processes NII simulations under interest rate scenarios in which the yield curve is assumed  to rise and decline by
the same  magnitude (parallel shifts). The  rate scenarios  considered in these market  risk simulations reflect instantaneous parallel
changes  of -100,  -200, +100,  +200 and  +400 basis  points  during the  succeeding twelve-month period.  Simulation analyses are
based on many assumptions, including relative levels of market interest rates across all yield curve points and indexes, interest rate
spreads, loan prepayments  and deposit elasticity.  Thus, they should  not be relied upon as  indicative of actual  results. Further,  the
estimates  do  not  contemplate  actions  that  management  could  take  to  respond  to  changes  in  interest  rates.  Additionally,  the
Corporation is also subject to  basis risk in the repricing of its assets and  liabilities, including the basis related to using different rate
indexes for the repricing of assets and  liabilities, as well as the effect of pricing lags which may be contractual or due to historical
differences  in  the  timing  of  management  responses to  changes  in  the  rate  environment. By  their  nature,  these  forward-looking
computations are only  estimates and may  be different from  what may actually  occur in the  future. The following  table presents the
results of  the simulations  at December  31, 2022  and December  31, 2021,  assuming a  static balance  sheet and  parallel changes
over flat spot rates over a one-year time horizon:

80

 
Table 12 - Net Interest Income  Sensitivity (One Year Projection)

(Dollars in thousands)

Change in interest rate

+400 basis points

+200 basis points

+100 basis points

-100 basis points

-200 basis points

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

Amount Change Percent Change

Amount Change Percent Change

$

(38,548)

(18,078)

(7,787)

41,763

78,381

(1.75) % $

(0.82)

(0.35)

1.90

3.56

257,223

197,354

166,920

(78,408)

(120,661)

13.21 %

10.14

8.57

(4.03)

(6.20)

As of December 31, 2022, NII simulations show the Corporation has a neutral to slightly liability sensitive position driven by the rapid
increase in short-term interest rates throughout the  year and its  impact on Puerto  Rico public sector deposits  which are indexed to
market rates, as well as the deployment of cash to fund loan growth and purchase investments. These results suggest that changes
in net interest income are driven by changes in liability costs, primarily Puerto Rico public sector deposits. In declining rate scenarios
net interest income would increase as the decline in the cost of these deposits generates a greater benefit than the changes in asset
yields.  In  rising  rate  scenarios  Popular’s sensitivity  profile  is  also  impacted  by  its  large  proportion  of  Puerto  Rico  public  sector
deposits which are indexed to  market rates. As  short-term rates have risen, the  cost of these  deposits now increases  in sync with
market rates and  therefore reduce the  benefit banks typically  have in rising rate environments.  As of December 31, 2022,  Popular
has a more neutral  position as compared to a substantially asset sensitive position as of December 31, 2021. The  primary reasons
for the reduction in sensitivity  are i) the realization of  much of the  expected benefit in  net interest income  given the higher interest
rates observed  during 2022,  ii) a  decrease in  cash balances  (which reprice  instantaneously) via  the deployment  into longer  term
investments and loans, and iii)  the market indexed nature of  Puerto Rico public sector deposits  which represented $15.2  billion or
25% of deposits as of December 31, 2022. 

The Corporation’s  loan and  investment portfolios  are subject  to prepayment risk,  which results  from the  ability of  a third-party  to
repay debt  obligations prior to maturity.  Prepayment risk also could  have a  significant impact on the  duration of  mortgage-backed
securities  and  collateralized  mortgage  obligations  since  prepayments  could  shorten  (or  lower  prepayments  could  extend)  the
weighted average life of these portfolios.

81

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 - Interest Rate Sensitivity

At December 31, 2022
By repricing dates 

(Dollars in thousands)

$

Assets:
Money market investments
Investment and trading securities 
Loans
Other assets
  Total 
Liabilities and stockholders' equity:
Savings, NOW and money market and 

other interest bearing demand
deposits

Certificates of deposit

0-30 days

Within 31 -
90 days

After three
months but
within six
months

After six
months but
within nine
months 

After nine
months but
within one
year

After one
year but
within two
years

After two
years

Non-
interest
bearing
assets /
liabilities

5,614,595 $
2,085,332
5,090,409
-
12,790,336

- $

- $

- $

- $

- $

- $

- $

750,646
2,875,448
-
3,626,094

1,026,603
1,436,637
-
2,463,240

1,076,243
1,248,850
-
2,325,093

1,116,553
1,256,549
-
2,373,102

4,590,807
4,559,631
-
9,150,438

16,292,815
15,718,001
-
32,010,816

(392,593)
(102,375)
3,393,766
2,898,798

Total

5,614,595
26,546,406
32,083,150
3,393,766
67,637,917

17,880,089
1,921,505

794,797
468,312

1,115,771
640,081

1,031,454
452,482

954,856
496,747

3,178,624
1,194,998

13,529,678
1,607,276

-
-

38,485,269
6,781,401

Federal funds purchased and assets 

sold under agreements to
repurchase

Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable 
Non-interest bearing deposits
Other non-interest bearing liabilities
Stockholders' equity
  Total 
Interest rate sensitive gap
Cumulative interest rate sensitive gap
Cumulative interest rate sensitive gap 

to earning assets

99,558
365,000
1,000
-
-

-

31,530
-
-
-
-

-

17,521
-
20,000
-
-

-

-
-
299,109
-
-

-

$ 20,267,152 $ 1,294,639 $

1,793,373 $ 1,783,045 $

(7,476,816)

2,331,455

669,867

542,048

-
-
22,261
-
-

-
-
91,943
-
-

-
-
452,397
-
-

-
-
-
15,960,557
916,946

148,609
365,000
886,710
15,960,557
916,946

-

4,093,425
1,473,864 $ 4,465,565 $ 15,589,351 $ 20,970,928 $ 67,637,917
-
16,421,465

(18,072,130)

4,684,873

4,093,425

899,238

-

-

(7,476,816)

(5,145,361)

(4,475,494)

(3,933,446)

(3,034,208)

1,650,665

18,072,130

(11.55)%

(7.95)%

(6.91)%

(6.08)%

(4.69)%

2.55 %

27.92 %

-

-

-

-

Table 14, which presents the maturity distribution of earning assets, takes into consideration prepayment assumptions. 

Table 14 - Maturity Distribution  of Earning Assets

As of December 31, 2022

Maturities

After one year

  After five years

through five years

through fifteen years

After fifteen years

One year

Fixed 

Variable 

Fixed 

Variable 

Fixed 

Variable 

(In thousands)

 or less interest rates

interest rates

interest rates

interest rates

interest rates

interest rates

Total

Money market securities 

$ 5,614,595 $

- $

- $

-  $ 

-  $ 

Investment and trading
securities 

5,972,315

15,917,065

12,593

4,474,589

3,287

-  $ 

-

- $ 5,614,595

-

26,379,849

Loans:

 Commercial 

 Construction 

 Leasing 

 Consumer 

 Mortgage 

4,609,900

5,335,022

3,628,170

1,092,038

930,166

45,176

98,659

15,739,132

469,212

45,911

193,334

8,261

34,232

426,138

1,127,923

-

31,678

-

-

-

1,845,426

3,584,443

298,977

187,647

595,179

85,770

7,033

757,984

-

-

1,585,739

6,597,443

581,384

2,074,029

107,067

3,759,026

54,812

826,508

26

7,402,852

Subtotal loans 

7,932,060

12,167,328

4,227,549

5,078,651

1,614,390

957,454

105,718

32,083,150

Total earning assets
Note: Equity securities available-for-sale and other investment  securities, including Federal Reserve Bank stock and  Federal Home Loan Bank stock
held by the Corporation, are not included in this table.  Loans held-for-sale have been allocated according to the  expected sale date. 

4,240,142 $ 9,553,241 $ 1,617,677 $

$ 19,518,969 $ 28,084,393 $

105,718 $ 64,077,594

957,454 $

82

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading 

The Corporation  engages in  trading activities in the  ordinary course of business  at its  subsidiaries, BPPR  and Popular Securities.
Popular Securities’ trading activities consist primarily of market-making activities to meet expected customers’ needs related to  its
retail brokerage business, and purchases and sales of U.S. Government and government sponsored securities with the objective of
realizing gains from expected short-term price  movements. BPPR’s trading activities consist  primarily of  holding U.S.  Government
sponsored mortgage-backed securities  classified as  “trading” and  hedging the  related market  risk with  “TBA” (to-be-announced)
market  transactions.  The  objective  is  to  derive  spread  income  from  the  portfolio  and  not  to  benefit  from  short-term  market
movements. In  addition, BPPR  uses forward  contracts or  TBAs to  hedge its  securitization pipeline.  Risks related  to variations  in
interest rates and market volatility  are hedged with TBAs that have characteristics similar to  that of the forecasted security  and its
conversion timeline.

At December 31, 2022, the Corporation held trading securities with a fair value of $28 million, representing approximately 0.04%  of
the Corporation’s total assets, compared with $30 million and 0.04%, respectively, at December 31, 2021. As shown in Table 15, the
trading  portfolio  consists  principally  of  mortgage-backed  securities  and  U.S.  Treasuries,  which  at  December  31,  2022  were
investment grade  securities. As  of December  31, 2022  and December  31, 2021,  the trading  portfolio also  included $0.1  million in
Puerto Rico  government obligations.  Trading instruments are  recognized at  fair value,  with changes  resulting from  fluctuations in
market prices, interest rates or exchange rates reported in current period earnings. The Corporation recognized net trading account
loss of $784 thousand and a net  trading account loss of  $389 thousand, respectively,  for the years ended  December 31, 2022 and
2021. 

Table 15 - Trading  Portfolio

(Dollars in thousands)

Mortgage-backed securities 

U.S. Treasury securities

Collateralized mortgage obligations

Puerto Rico government obligations

Interest-only strips 

Total 

[1] Not on a taxable equivalent basis.

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

Amount 

Weighted
Average Yield [1]

Amount

Weighted
Average Yield [1]

$

14,223

5.79 % $

22,559

5.12 %

13,069

160

64

207

3.26

5.51

0.45

12.00

6,530

257

85

280

0.03

5.61

0.47

12.00

$

27,723

4.63 % $

29,711

4.06 %

The Corporation’s trading activities are  limited by internal policies. For each  of the two subsidiaries, the market risk assumed under
trading  activities  is  measured  by  the  5-day  net  value-at-risk  (“VAR”),  with  a  confidence  level  of  99%.  The  VAR  measures  the
maximum estimated loss that may occur over a 5-day holding period, given a 99% probability. 

The Corporation’s  trading portfolio  had a  5-day VAR  of approximately $0.2 million  for the  last week  in December  31, 2022.  There
are numerous  assumptions and  estimates associated  with VAR  modeling, and  actual results  could differ  from these  assumptions
and estimates. Backtesting is performed  to compare actual results against  maximum estimated losses,  in order to evaluate model
and assumptions accuracy. 

In the opinion of management, the size and composition of the trading portfolio does not represent a significant source of market risk
for the Corporation.

Derivatives

83

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivatives may  be used by  the Corporation  as  part of its overall interest  rate risk  management strategy  to minimize significant
unexpected  fluctuations  in  earnings  and  cash  flows  that  are  caused  by  interest  rate  volatility.  Derivative  instruments  that  the
Corporation may use  include, among others,  interest rate caps,  indexed options, and  forward contracts. The  Corporation does not
use highly leveraged derivative instruments in its interest rate risk management strategy. Credit risk embedded in these transactions
is  reduced  by  requiring  appropriate  collateral  from  counterparties  and  entering  into  netting  agreements  whenever  possible.  All
outstanding derivatives are  recognized in the  Corporation’s Consolidated Statements  of Condition at  their fair value. Refer to Note
26 to the Consolidated Financial  Statements for further  information on the  Corporation’s involvement in  derivative instruments and
hedging activities. 

Cash Flow Hedges

The  Corporation  manages  the  variability  of  cash  payments  due  to  interest  rate  fluctuations  by  the  effective  use  of  derivatives
designated  as  cash  flow  hedges  and  that  are  linked  to  specified  hedged  assets  and  liabilities.  The  cash  flow  hedges  relate  to
forward contracts  or  TBA mortgage-backed securities  that  are sold and  bought for future settlement to  hedge mortgage-backed
securities  and  loans  prior  to  securitization.  The  seller  agrees  to  deliver  on  a  specified  future  date  a  specified  instrument  at  a
specified price or  yield. These securities  are hedging a forecasted transaction and are designated for cash flow hedge  accounting.
The notional  amount of derivatives designated as  cash flow  hedges at December  31, 2022  amounted to $  15 million (2021 -  $ 88
million).  Refer  to  Note  26  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional  quantitative  information  on  these  derivative
contracts.

Fair Value Hedges

The Corporation did  not have any derivatives designated  as fair value  hedges during the  years  ended December  31, 2022 and
2021.

Trading and Non-Hedging Derivative Activities

The Corporation enters into derivative positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price differentials between financial
instruments  and  markets  mostly  to  economically  hedge  a  related  asset  or  liability.  The  Corporation  also  enters  into  various
derivatives to provide these types of derivative products to  customers. These free-standing derivatives are carried  at fair value with
changes in fair value recorded as part of the results of operations for the period. 

Following  is  a  description  of  the  most  significant  of  the  Corporation’s  derivative  activities  that  are  not  designated  for  hedge
accounting. 

The Corporation  has over-the-counter option contracts  which are  utilized in  order to  limit the  Corporation’s exposure  on customer
deposits whose returns are tied  to the S&P 500  or to certain other equity securities or commodity indexes. In  these certificates, the
customer’s  principal  is  guaranteed by  the  Corporation  and  insured  by  the  FDIC  to  the  maximum  extent  permitted  by  law.  The
instruments pay a return based  on the increase of these indexes, as applicable, during the term  of the instrument. Accordingly,  this
product  gives  customers  the  opportunity  to  invest  in  a  product  that  protects  the  principal  invested  but  allows  the  customer  the
potential to earn a return based on the performance of the indexes. The  risk of issuing certificates of deposit with returns tied to the
applicable indexes is economically hedged by the Corporation. Indexed options are purchased from financial institutions with strong
credit standings, whose  return is designed  to match the  return payable on the certificates of  deposit issued. By  hedging the risk  in
this manner, the effective cost of these deposits is fixed. The contracts have a maturity and an index equal to  the terms of the  pool
of retail deposits that they are economically hedging. 

The purchased  indexed options  are used  to economically  hedge the  bifurcated embedded  option. These  option contracts  do not
qualify  for  hedge  accounting,  and  therefore,  cannot  be  designated  as  accounting  hedges.  At  December  31,  2022,  the  notional
amount of the indexed  options on deposits  approximated $ 85 million (2021 - $ 79  million) with  a fair value of  $ 18 million (asset)
(2021 - $  26 million) while the  embedded options had a  notional value of $ 79 million (2021 - $  72 million) with a fair value  of $ 16
million (liability) (2021 - $ 23 million). 

Refer to Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a  description of other non-hedging derivative activities utilized by the
Corporation during 2022 and 2021.

84

Foreign Exchange

The Corporation holds  an interest in  BHD León in the Dominican Republic, which  is an investment  accounted for under  the equity
method. The Corporation’s carrying value  of the  equity interest in  BHD León approximated $ 199.8 million at  December 31, 2022. 
This business is conducted in  the country’s foreign currency.  The resulting foreign currency translation adjustment, from operations
for  which  the  functional  currency  is  other  than  the  U.S.  dollar,  is  reported  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  in  the
consolidated  statements  of  condition,  except  for  highly-inflationary  environments  in  which  the  effects  would  be  included  in  the
consolidated statements  of operations. At  December 31,  2022, the  Corporation had  approximately $  57 million in  an unfavorable
foreign currency translation  adjustment as part  of accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss), compared with an  unfavorable
adjustment of $ 67 million at December 31, 2021 and $ 71 million at December 31, 2020. 

Liquidity 
The objective  of effective  liquidity management  is to  ensure that  the Corporation  has sufficient  liquidity to  meet all  of its  financial
obligations, finance  expected future  growth, fund planned capital  distributions and  maintain a  reasonable safety  margin for  cash
commitments  under  both  normal  and  stressed  market  conditions.  The  Board  of  Directors  is  responsible  for  establishing  the
Corporation’s tolerance for  liquidity risk, including  approving relevant risk limits and policies.  The Board of  Directors has delegated
the  monitoring  of these  risks  to  the  Board’s  Risk Management Committee and  the  Asset/Liability Management Committee. The
management of liquidity risk,  on a  long-term  and  day-to-day basis, is  the  responsibility of  the  Corporate Treasury  Division. The
Corporation’s Corporate Treasurer  is responsible for implementing  the policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors
and  for  monitoring  the  Corporation’s  liquidity  position  on  an  ongoing  basis.  Also,  the  Corporate  Treasury  Division  coordinates
corporate wide liquidity management strategies and activities with the reportable segments, oversees policy breaches and manages
the escalation process. The Financial and Operational Risk Management Division is responsible for the independent monitoring and
reporting of adherence with established policies.

An institution’s liquidity  may be pressured  if, for example, it experiences a sudden and unexpected substantial cash outflow due to
exogenous events such as the COVID-19 pandemic, its credit rating  is downgraded, or some other event causes counterparties to
avoid exposure to the institution. Factors that the Corporation does not control, such as the economic outlook, adverse ratings of its
principal markets and regulatory changes, could also affect its ability to obtain funding. 

Liquidity is managed by the Corporation at the level of the holding companies that own the banking and non-banking subsidiaries. It
is also managed at the  level of the banking and  non-banking subsidiaries. As further explained below,  a principal source of liquidity
for the  bank holding companies (the “BHCs”)  are dividends  received from banking and non-banking subsidiaries. The  Corporation
has adopted  policies and limits  to monitor more effectively the Corporation’s liquidity position and that of  the banking subsidiaries.
Additionally, contingency funding plans are used to  model various stress events of different magnitudes and  affecting different time
horizons that assist  management in evaluating  the size of  the liquidity buffers  needed if those  stress events occur. However,  such
models  may  not  predict  accurately  how  the  market  and  customers  might  react  to  every  event,  and  are  dependent  on  many
assumptions.

Deposits, including  customer deposits,  brokered deposits  and public  funds deposits,  continue to  be the  most significant  source of
funds for  the Corporation,  funding  91% of  the Corporation’s  total assets  at December  31, 2022  and 89%  at December  31, 2021. 
The ratio of total ending loans to deposits was  52% at December 31, 2022, compared to 44% at December 31, 2021.  In addition to
traditional deposits, the Corporation maintains borrowing arrangements, which amounted to approximately $1.4 billion in outstanding
balances at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021 - $1.2 billion). A detailed description of the Corporation’s borrowings, including
their terms,  is included  in Note  17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, the  Consolidated Statements of  Cash Flows in
the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements provide information on the Corporation’s cash inflows and outflows.

On  July  12,  2022,  the  Corporation  completed  an  ASR  program  for  the  repurchase  of  an  aggregate  $400  million  of  Popular’s
common stock,  for which  an initial  3,483,942 shares  were delivered  in March  2022 (the  “March ASR  Agreement”). Upon  the final
settlement  of  the  March  ASR  Agreement,  the  Corporation  received  an  additional  1,582,922  shares  of  common  stock.  The
Corporation repurchased a  total of  5,066,864 shares at an  average purchase price of  $78.9443, which were recorded as treasury
stock by $440 million under the March ASR Agreement.

85

 
On December  7, 2022,  the Corporation  completed the  settlement of  another ASR  Agreement for  the repurchase  of an  aggregate
$231 million  of Popular’s common  stock, for  which an  initial  2,339,241 shares  were delivered on August  26,  2022 (the “August
ASR”). Upon the  final settlement of  the ASR Agreement, the Corporation received  an additional 840,024 shares of common  stock.
The Corporation repurchased a total of  3,179,265 shares at an average purchase price of  $72.66, which were recorded as treasury
stock by  $245 million under  the August ASR  Agreement. Refer to Note  20 to the Consolidated Financial  Statements for additional
information. 

The  following  sections  provide  further  information  on  the  Corporation’s  major  funding  activities  and  needs,  as  well  as  the  risks
involved in these activities.

Banking Subsidiaries

Primary sources of  funding for the  Corporation’s banking subsidiaries  (BPPR and  PB or,  collectively,  “the banking  subsidiaries”)
include  retail,  commercial  and  public  sector  deposits,  brokered  deposits,  unpledged  investment  securities,  mortgage  loan
securitization and, to a lesser extent, loan sales. In addition, the Corporation maintains borrowing facilities with the FHLB and at the
discount window  of the  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  (the “FRB”) and has  a considerable  amount of collateral pledged that
can be used to raise funds under these facilities. 

Refer  to  Note  17  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  for  additional  information  of  the  Corporation’s  borrowing  facilities
available through its banking subsidiaries. 

The principal  uses of  funds for  the banking  subsidiaries include  loan originations,  investment portfolio  purchases, loan  purchases
and repurchases, repayment of outstanding obligations (including deposits), advances on certain serviced portfolios and operational
expenses. Also, the banking subsidiaries assume liquidity risk related to collateral  posting requirements for certain  activities mainly
in  connection  with  contractual  commitments,  recourse  provisions,  servicing  advances,  derivatives  and  credit  card  licensing
agreements. 

The banking  subsidiaries maintain  sufficient funding  capacity to  address large  increases in  funding requirements  such as  deposit
outflows.  The  Corporation has  established liquidity  guidelines that  require  the  banking subsidiaries to  have  sufficient  liquidity  to
cover all short-term borrowings and a portion of deposits. 

The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits, excluding brokered deposits, depends on various
factors, including  pricing, service, convenience and  financial stability  as reflected  by operating  results, credit  ratings (by  nationally
recognized  credit  rating  agencies),  and  importantly,  FDIC  deposit insurance.  Although  a  downgrade  in  the  credit  ratings  of  the
Corporation’s banking  subsidiaries may  impact their  ability to  raise retail  and commercial deposits or  the rate  that it  is required  to
pay on such deposits, management does not believe that the impact should be material. Deposits at all of the Corporation’s banking
subsidiaries are federally insured  (subject to FDIC limits) and this is expected to mitigate the potential effect  of a downgrade in the
credit ratings. 

Deposits are a key source of  funding as they tend to be  less volatile than institutional  borrowings and their cost is less  sensitive to
changes in  market rates.  Refer to  Table  8 for  a breakdown  of deposits by major  types. Core  deposits are generated from  a large
base of consumer, corporate and public sector customers. Core deposits include all non-interest bearing deposits, savings deposits
and certificates  of deposit  under $250,000,  excluding brokered  deposits with  denominations under  $250,000. Core  deposits have
historically provided the Corporation with a sizable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. Core deposits totaled $57.6 billion,
or  94% of total deposits, at December 31, 2022, compared with $63.6 billion, or 95% of total deposits, at December 31, 2021. Core
deposits financed 90% of the Corporation’s earning assets at December 31, 2022, compared with 88% at December 31, 2021. 

The distribution by maturity of certificates of deposits with denominations of  $250,000 and over at December 31,  2022 is presented
in the table that follows:

86

 
Table 16 - Distribution by  Maturity of Certificate of Deposits of $250,000 and Over

(In thousands)

3 months or less

Over 3 to 12 months

Over 1 year to 3 years

Over 3 years

Total

$

1,809,781

333,648

282,506

119,815

$

2,545,750

For the  years ended  December 31,  2022 and  2021, average  deposits, including  brokered deposits, represented  93% of  average
earning assets. Table 17 summarizes average deposits for the past three years. 

Table 17 - Average  Total Deposits

(In thousands)

Non-interest bearing demand deposits

Savings accounts 

NOW, money market and other interest  bearing demand accounts

Certificates of deposit

Total interest bearing  deposits

Total average deposits

For the years ended December 31,

2022

2021

$

16,093,704

$ 14,687,093

16,242,457

15,753,630

25,539,909

25,648,707

6,840,334

7,013,486

48,622,700

48,415,823

$

64,716,404

$ 63,102,916

The Corporation  had $1.1  billion in  brokered deposits  at December  31, 2022,  which financed approximately 2%  of its  total assets
(December 31, 2021 -  $0.8 billion and 1%,  respectively). In the event that  any of the Corporation’s  banking subsidiaries’ regulatory
capital ratios fall  below those  required by  a well-capitalized  institution or  are subject  to capital  restrictions by  the regulators,  that
banking subsidiary faces  the risk of  not being able  to raise or  maintain brokered deposits  and faces limitations  on the rate  paid on
deposits, which  may hinder  the Corporation’s  ability to  effectively compete  in its  retail markets  and could  affect its  deposit raising
efforts. 

Deposits from the public sector represent an  important source of  funds for the Corporation. As of  December 31, 2022,  total public
sector deposits were $15.2 billion, compared to $20.3 billion at December 31, 2021. Generally,  these deposits require that the bank
pledge high credit quality securities as collateral; therefore, liquidity risks arising from public sector  deposit outflows are lower given
that the bank  receives its collateral in return. This,  now unpledged, collateral can either be  financed via repurchase  agreements or
sold for cash. However, there are some  timing differences between the time the deposit outflow occurs and when the  bank receives
its  collateral.  Additionally,  the  Corporation  mainly  utilizes  fixed-rate  U.S.  Treasury  debt  securities  as  collateral.  While  these
securities have limited credit risk,  they are subject to market value risk based on  changes in the interest rate  environment.  When
interest  rates  increase,  the  value  of  this  collateral  decreases  and  could  result  in  the  Corporation  having  to  provide  additional
collateral  to  cover  the  same  amount  of  deposit  liabilities.  This  additional  collateral  could  reduce  unpledged securities  otherwise
available as liquidity sources to the Corporation. 

At December 31, 2022, management believes that the banking subsidiaries had sufficient current  and projected liquidity sources to
meet their anticipated cash flow obligations, as well as special needs and off-balance sheet commitments, in the  ordinary course of
business and have sufficient  liquidity resources to address a  stress event. Although the banking subsidiaries have historically been
able to replace  maturing deposits and advances,  no assurance can be given that  they would be  able to replace  those funds in the
future if the  Corporation’s financial condition or general market conditions were to  deteriorate. The Corporation’s  financial flexibility
will  be severely constrained  if  the banking subsidiaries  are  unable to  maintain access  to funding or  if  adequate financing  is  not
available to accommodate future financing needs at acceptable interest rates. The banking subsidiaries also are required to deposit
cash or qualifying securities to meet margin requirements on repurchase agreements and other collateralized borrowing facilities. To
the extent that the value of securities  previously pledged as collateral declines because of market  changes, the Corporation will  be

87

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
required to deposit additional cash  or securities to  meet its margin requirements, thereby  adversely affecting its  liquidity. Finally,  if
management  is  required  to  rely  more  heavily  on  more  expensive  funding  sources  to  meet  its  future growth,  revenues  may  not
increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected.

Bank Holding Companies

The principal  sources of  funding for  the BHCs,  which are  Popular,  Inc. (holding company  only) and  PNA, include  cash on  hand,
investment securities, dividends received from  banking and  non-banking subsidiaries,  asset sales,  credit  facilities available from
affiliate banking subsidiaries and proceeds from potential securities offerings.  Dividends from banking and non-banking subsidiaries
are subject to various regulatory limits  and authorization requirements that are further described below and that may limit the  ability
of those subsidiaries to act as a source of funding to the BHCs.

The  principal  use  of  these  funds  includes  the  repayment  of  debt,  and  interest  payments  to  holders  of  senior  debt  and  junior
subordinated  deferrable  interest  (related  to  trust  preferred  securities),  the  payment  of  dividends  to  common  stockholders,
repurchases of the Corporation’s securities and capitalizing its banking subsidiaries. 

The  outstanding  balance  of  notes  payable  at  the  BHCs  amounted  to  $497  million  at  December  31,  2022  and  $496  million  at
December 31, 2021.

The contractual maturities of the BHCs notes payable at December 31, 2022 are presented in Table 18.

Table 18  - Distribution of BHC's Notes Payable by Contractual  Maturity
Year

2023
Later years
Total

(In thousands)

$

$

299,109
198,319
497,428

The Corporation’s 6.125% unsecured senior  debt securities mature in the September of 2023.  Annual debt service  at the BHCs  is
approximately $32  million, and the Corporation’s latest quarterly dividend  was $0.55  per share  or  approximately $40  million per
quarter.  As  of  December  31,  2022,  the  BHCs  had  cash  and  money  markets  investments  totaling  $203  million  and  borrowing
potential of  $169 million  from its  secured facility  with BPPR.  The BHCs’  liquidity position  continues to  be adequate  with sufficient
cash  on  hand,  investments  and  other  sources  of  liquidity  which  are  expected  to  be  enough  to  meet  all  interest  payments  and
dividend obligations during the  foreseeable future. The Corporation intends to refinance the 6.125% unsecured senior  debt prior to
its maturity in  September.  If we are  unable to  refinance these  notes, we  could have  to declare extraordinary  dividends from  our
banking and other operating  subsidiaries to repay such  notes. Our ability to  declare such dividends could be subject to approval of
the Federal Reserve Board.

The BHCs have in the past borrowed in the  corporate debt market primarily to finance their non-banking subsidiaries and refinance
debt obligations. These  sources of funding  are more costly  due to the  fact that two  out of the  three principal credit  rating agencies
rate the Corporation below “investment grade”, which  affects the Corporation’s cost and ability to raise funds in the capital markets.
Factors that the Corporation does not control, such  as the economic outlook, interest rate volatility,  inflation, disruptions in the  debt
market, among others,  could also affect  its ability to  obtain funding. The  Corporation has an  automatic shelf registration statement
filed and effective with the Securities and Exchange  Commission, which permits the Corporation to issue an unspecified amount of
debt or equity securities.

On July 1, 2022, the Corporation exchanged a  portion of Evertec shares as  part of a transaction in which it acquired  certain critical
channels from Evertec and renegotiated several service agreements. The Corporation completed the sale of its remaining shares of
Evertec on August 15, 2022. Following the Evertec Stock Sale, Popular no longer owns any Evertec common stock.

Non-Banking Subsidiaries

The  principal  sources  of  funding  for  the  non-banking  subsidiaries include  internally  generated  cash  flows  from  operations,  loan
sales, repurchase agreements, capital injections and borrowed funds  from their direct parent companies or the  holding companies.
The principal uses of funds for the non-banking subsidiaries include repayment of maturing debt, operational expenses and payment
of dividends to the  BHCs. The liquidity needs  of the non-banking subsidiaries  are minimal since most of them are funded internally
from operating cash flows or from intercompany borrowings or capital contributions from their holding companies. During the period

88

 
   
   
 
 
ended December 31, 2022, Popular, Inc.  made capital contributions to its  wholly owned subsidiaries  of $25  million to Popular Re,
Inc., $10 million to Popular Securities, LLC and $3 million to Popular Impact Fund, LLC.

Dividends

During  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  the  Corporation  declared cash  dividends  of  $2.20  per  common  share  outstanding
($163.7 million in the aggregate). The dividends for the Corporation’s Series A preferred stock amounted to $1.4 million. During the
year ended  December 31,  2022, the  BHCs received  dividends amounting  to $450  million from  BPPR, $54  million from  PNA, $19
million from PIBI, $8 million  in dividends  from its non-banking subsidiaries  and $2 million  in dividends from  Evertec. In addition,
during the year ended December 31, 2022, Popular International Bank Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Popular, Inc., received $16
million in dividends from its investment in BHD. Dividends from BPPR constitute Popular, Inc.’s primary source of liquidity. 

Other Funding Sources and Capital

The  debt  securities  portfolio  provides  an  additional source  of  liquidity,  which  may  be  realized  through either  securities sales  or
repurchase agreements. The Corporation’s debt securities portfolio consists primarily of liquid U.S. government debt securities, U.S.
government  sponsored  agency  debt  securities,  U.S.  government  sponsored  agency  mortgage-backed  securities,  and  U.S.
government  sponsored  agency  collateralized  mortgage  obligations  that  can  be  used  to  raise  funds  in  the  repo  markets.  The
availability  of  the  repurchase  agreement  would  be  subject  to  having  sufficient  unpledged  collateral  available  at  the  time  the
transactions are to be consummated, in addition to overall liquidity and risk appetite of the various counterparties. The Corporation’s
unpledged debt  securities amounted  to $8.0 billion at  December 31,  2022 and $3.0 billion  at December 31,  2021. A  substantial
portion of these debt securities could be used to raise financing in the U.S. money markets or from secured lending sources.

Additional liquidity may  be provided through loan maturities, prepayments  and sales. The  loan portfolio can  also be used  to obtain
funding in the capital markets. In particular,  mortgage loans and some types of consumer loans, have secondary markets which the
Corporation could use.

Off-Balance Sheet arrangements and other commitments

In the ordinary course  of business, the Corporation engages in financial transactions that  are not recorded on the balance sheet or
may be recorded on the balance sheet in amounts that are different than the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. As a
provider of  financial services,  the Corporation  routinely enters  into commitments  with off-balance  sheet risk  to meet  the financial
needs of its customers. These commitments may include loan commitments and standby letters of  credit. These commitments  are
subject  to  the  same  credit  policies  and  approval process  used for  on-balance sheet  instruments. These  instruments involve, to
varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the statement  of financial position.
Refer to  Note 24  to the  Consolidated Financial Statements for  information on  the Corporation’s  commitments to  extent credit  and
other non-credit commitments. 

Other types  of off-balance  sheet arrangements that the  Corporation enters in the  ordinary course  of business  include derivatives,
operating  leases  and  provision  of  guarantees,  indemnifications,  and  representation  and  warranties.  Refer  to  Note  33  to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information on operating leases and  to Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
a  detailed  discussion  related  to  the  Corporation’s  obligations  under  credit  recourse  and  representation  and  warranties
arrangements. 

The Corporation monitors its cash requirements,  including its contractual obligations  and debt commitments.  As discussed above,
liquidity  is managed by the  Corporation in  order to  meet its short- and  long-term cash  obligations. Note  17 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements has information on  the Corporation’s borrowings by maturity,  which amounted to $1.4 billion at December 31,
2022 (December 31, 2021 - $1.2 billion).

Financial information of guarantor and issuers of registered guaranteed securities

The Corporation (not  including any of  its subsidiaries, “PIHC”) is the parent  holding company of Popular North America  “PNA” and
has other subsidiaries through which it conducts its financial services operations. PNA is an operating, 100% subsidiary of Popular,
Inc. Holding Company  (“PIHC”) and  is the  holding company  of its  wholly-owned subsidiaries:  Equity One,  Inc. and PB,  including
PB’s wholly-owned subsidiaries Popular Equipment Finance, LLC, Popular Insurance Agency, U.S.A., and E-LOAN, Inc.

PNA  has  issued  junior  subordinated  debentures  guaranteed  by  PIHC  (together  with  PNA,  the  “obligor  group”)  purchased  by
statutory trusts  established by  the Corporation.  These debentures  were purchased  by the  statutory trust  using the  proceeds from

89

 
 
 
 
trust preferred securities issued to the public (referred to as “capital securities”), together with the proceeds of the related issuances
of common securities of the trusts.

PIHC  fully  and  unconditionally  guarantees  the  junior  subordinated  debentures  issued  by  PNA.  PIHC’s  obligation  to  make  a
guarantee payment may be satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts to the holders of the applicable capital securities or
by causing the applicable trust to pay such amounts to such holders. Each guarantee does not apply to any payment of distributions
by  the  applicable  trust  except  to  the  extent  such  trust  has  funds  available  for  such  payments. If  PIHC  does  not  make  interest
payments on the  debentures held by such  trust, such trust will not pay  distributions on the applicable  capital securities and will not
have  funds  available  for  such  payments.  PIHC’s  guarantee  of  PNA’s  junior  subordinated  debentures  is  unsecured  and  ranks
subordinate and junior in right of payment to all the PIHC’s other liabilities in the same manner as the applicable debentures as  set
forth in the applicable indentures; and equally with all other guarantees that the PIHC issues. The guarantee constitutes a guarantee
of  payment and not of collection, which means  that  the guaranteed party  may sue the guarantor to  enforce its  rights  under the
respective guarantee without suing any other person or entity.

The  principal  sources  of  funding  for  PIHC  and  PNA  have  included  dividends  received  from  their  banking  and  non-banking
subsidiaries, asset  sales and  proceeds from  the issuance  of debt  and equity.  As further  described below,  in the  Risk to  Liquidity
section, various statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends an insured depository  institution may pay to its holding  company
without regulatory approval. 

The  following  summarized  financial  information  presents  the  financial  position  of  the  obligor  group,  on  a  combined  basis  at
December 31,  2022 and  December 31,  2021,  and  the  results of their operations for the  period ended December  31,  2022  and
December 31,  2021. Investments in and equity in the earnings from the other subsidiaries and affiliates that are not members of the
obligor group have been excluded.

The  summarized  financial  information  of  the  obligor  group  is  presented  on  a  combined  basis  with  intercompany  balances  and
transactions  between  entities  in  the  obligor  group  eliminated.  The  obligor  group's  amounts  due  from,  amounts  due  to  and
transactions with  subsidiaries and  affiliates have been  presented in  separate line  items, if  they are  material.  In addition, related
parties transactions are presented separately.

90

Table 19 - Summarized Statement  of Condition

(In thousands)

Assets

Cash and money market investments

Investment securities

Accounts receivables from non-obligor subsidiaries

Other loans (net of allowance for credit losses of $370 (2021  - $96))

Investment in equity method investees

Other assets

Total assets

Liabilities and Stockholders' deficit

Accounts payable to non-obligor subsidiaries

Accounts payable to affiliates and related parties

Notes payable

Other liabilities

Stockholders' deficit

Total liabilities and  stockholders' deficit

Table 20 - Summarized Statement  of Operations

(In thousands)

Income:

Dividends from non-obligor subsidiaries

Interest income from non-obligor subsidiaries and affiliates

Earnings from investments in equity method investees

Other operating income

Total income

Expenses:

Services provided by non-obligor subsidiaries and affiliates  (net of
reimbursement by subsidiaries for services provided by parent  of
$222,935 (2021 - $162,019))

Other operating expenses

Total expenses

Net income (loss)

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

203,083 $

24,815

16,853

27,826

5,350

45,278

323,205 $

3,709 $

-

497,428

112,847

(290,779)

323,205 $

291,540

25,691

17,634

29,349

114,955

42,251

521,420

6,481

1,254

496,134

97,172

(79,621)

521,420

For the years ended

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

458,000 $

705

15,688

145,295

619,688 $

18,467 $

23,607

42,074 $

577,614 $

792,000

848

29,387

3,136

825,371

13,594

33,524

47,118

778,253

During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Obligor group recorded $1.5 million of  dividend distributions from its direct
equity method investees, and $72.0 million of dividend distributions from non-obligor subsidiaries which were recorded as a
reduction  to  the  investments.  During  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021,  the  Obligor  group  recorded  $3.0  million  of
distributions from its direct equity method investees, of which $2.3 million were related to dividend distributions.

In addition, during  the year  ending December  31, 2022,  the Obligor  group recorded  $228.1 million  in proceeds  from the
sale of two of its direct equity method investees (2021- $0).

91

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risks to Liquidity

Total lines of credit outstanding are not necessarily a measure of the total credit available on a continuing basis. Some of these lines
could be subject to collateral requirements, standards of creditworthiness, leverage ratios and other regulatory requirements, among
other factors.  Derivatives, such  as those  embedded in  long-term repurchase  transactions or  interest rate  swaps, and  off-balance
sheet exposures, such as recourse, performance bonds or credit card arrangements, are subject to collateral requirements. As their
fair value increases, the collateral requirements may increase, thereby reducing the balance of unpledged securities.

The importance of  the Puerto Rico  market for the  Corporation is an additional risk factor  that could affect  its financing activities. In
the case of a deterioration in economic  and fiscal conditions  in Puerto Rico,  the credit quality  of the Corporation could be  affected
and result  in higher  credit costs.  Refer to  the Geographic  and Government  Risk section  of this  MD&A for  some highlights  on the
current status of the Puerto Rico economy and the ongoing fiscal crisis.

Factors that the Corporation does not control, such as the economic outlook and credit ratings of its principal markets and regulatory
changes, could also  affect  its ability to  obtain funding.  In order to  prepare for  the  possibility of  such scenario,  management has
adopted  contingency  plans  for  raising  financing  under  stress  scenarios  when  important  sources  of  funds  that  are  usually  fully
available  are  temporarily unavailable. These  plans call  for  using alternate  funding mechanisms, such  as  the  pledging of certain
asset classes  and accessing  secured credit  lines and  loan facilities  put in  place with  the FHLB  and the  FRB. The  Corporation is
subject to  positive tangible  capital requirements to  utilize secured  loan facilities  with the  FHLB that  could result in  a limitation  of
borrowing amounts or maturity terms, even if the Corporation exceeds well-capitalized regulatory capital levels. 

The credit  ratings of  Popular’s debt  obligations are  a relevant  factor for  liquidity because  they impact  the Corporation’s  ability to
borrow in  the  capital  markets, its cost  and  access to  funding  sources. Credit  ratings  are  based  on the  financial  strength, credit
quality and  concentrations in  the loan  portfolio, the  level and  volatility of  earnings, capital  adequacy,  the quality  of management,
geographic concentration  in Puerto  Rico, the  liquidity of  the balance  sheet, the  availability of  a significant  base of  core retail  and
commercial deposits, and the Corporation’s ability to access a broad array of wholesale funding sources, among other factors. 

Furthermore,  various  statutory  provisions  limit  the  amount  of  dividends  an  insured  depository  institution  may  pay  to  its  holding
company without  regulatory approval. A  member bank must  obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board for any  dividend, if
the total  of all  dividends declared  by the  member bank  during the  calendar year  would exceed  the total  of its  net income  for that
year, combined with  its retained  net income  for the  preceding two years, after  considering those years’ dividend  activity,  less any
required transfers to surplus or to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. During the year ended December 31, 2022, BPPR
declared cash dividends of  $450 million,  a portion of  which was  used by  Popular for  the payments of  the cash dividends on  its
outstanding common stock and $231 million in accelerated stock repurchases. At December 31, 2022, BPPR needed to obtain prior
approval of the Federal Reserve Board before declaring a dividend in excess of $53 million due to its declared dividend activity and
transfers to statutory reserves over the three years ended December 31, 2022. In addition, a member bank may not declare or pay a
dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits as reported in its Report of  Condition and Income, unless the member bank
has received the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. A member bank also may not permit any portion of its permanent capital to
be withdrawn unless the withdrawal has been approved by the Federal Reserve Board. Pursuant to these requirements, PB may not
declare or pay a dividend without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the NYSDFS. The ability of a bank subsidiary
to up-stream dividends to its BHC could thus be impacted by its financial performance and capital, including tangible and regulatory
capital, thus potentially limiting the  amount of cash moving up to the BHCs from  the banking subsidiaries. This could, in turn, affect
the BHCs ability to  declare dividends  on its outstanding common  and preferred stock,  repurchase its  securities or meet  its debt
obligations, for example. 

The Corporation’s banking subsidiaries have historically not used unsecured capital market borrowings to finance its operations, and
therefore are less sensitive to the level and changes in the Corporation’s overall credit ratings.

Obligations Subject to Rating Triggers or Collateral Requirements

The  Corporation’s  banking  subsidiaries  currently  do  not  use  borrowings  that  are  rated  by  the  major  rating  agencies,  as  these
banking subsidiaries are funded primarily with deposits and secured borrowings. The banking subsidiaries had $9 million in deposits
at December 31, 2022 that are subject to rating triggers. 

In addition, certain mortgage servicing and custodial  agreements that BPPR has  with third parties include rating covenants.  In the
event of a credit rating downgrade, the third parties have the right to require the institution to engage a substitute cash custodian for
escrow  deposits  and/or  increase  collateral  levels  securing  the  recourse  obligations.  Also,  as  discussed  in  Note  23  to  the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  the  Corporation  services  residential  mortgage  loans  subject  to  credit  recourse  provisions.

92

 
 
Certain  contractual  agreements  require the  Corporation to  post  collateral  to  secure  such  recourse obligations  if  the  institution’s
required  credit  ratings  are  not  maintained.  Collateral  pledged  by  the  Corporation  to  secure  recourse  obligations  amounted  to
approximately  $29  million  at  December  31,  2022.  The  Corporation  could  be  required  to  post  additional  collateral  under  the
agreements.  Management  expects  that  it  would  be  able  to  meet  additional  collateral  requirements  if  and  when  needed.  The
requirements to post collateral under  certain agreements or  the loss of escrow deposits  could reduce the  Corporation’s liquidity
resources and impact its operating results.

Credit Risk

Geographic and Government Risk 

The Corporation is exposed to geographic and government risk. The Corporation’s assets and revenue composition by geographical
area and by business segment reporting are presented in Note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commonwealth of Puerto Rico

A significant portion  of our financial  activities and  credit exposure is  concentrated in  the Commonwealth of  Puerto Rico  (“Puerto
Rico”), which has faced severe economic and fiscal challenges in the past and may face additional challenges in the future. 

Economic Performance. 

Puerto Rico’s economy suffered  a severe and  prolonged recession  from 2007 to 2017, with real  gross national  product (“GNP”)
contracting approximately 15% during this  period.  In 2017, Hurricane María caused significant damage and destruction  across the
island, resulting in further economic contraction.  Puerto Rico’s economy has been gradually recovering since 2018, in part aided by
the large amount  of federal disaster relief and recovery  assistance funds injected  into the Puerto  Rico economy in  connection with
Hurricane María and other recent natural disasters. This growth was interrupted by the economic shock caused  by the  COVID-19
pandemic in 2020, but has since resumed, in part aided by additional federal assistance from pandemic-related stimulus measures.

The  latest Puerto  Rico Economic Activity  Index,  published by the Economic Development Bank  for Puerto  Rico (the “Economic
Activity  Index”),  reflected  a  0.6%  increase  in  December  2022,  compared  to  December  2021.  During  calendar  year  2022,  the
Economic Activity Index increased by 1.8%, compared to the same period in calendar year 2021.  The Economic Activity Index is a
coincident indicator of ongoing economic activity but not a direct measurement of real GNP.  According to the Puerto Rico Planning
Board’s latest economic forecast (dated August 2021), Puerto Rico’s real GNP is projected to increase 1.7% during the current fiscal
year (July 2022-June 2023).

While the  Puerto Rico  economy has  not directly  tracked the  United States  economy in  recent years,  many of  the external  factors
that impact the  Puerto Rico economy  are affected by  the policies and  performance of the  United States economy.  These external
factors include the level of interest rates and the rate  of inflation. Inflation in the United States, as measured by the  United States
Consumer Price Index  (published by the  U.S. Bureau of  Labor Statistics), increased 6.5% in calendar  year 2022, mainly  driven by
pent-up  demand  and  supply-chain  disruptions  caused  by  the  pandemic.  During  the  same  period,  inflation  in  Puerto  Rico,  as
measured by the Puerto Rico Consumer Price Index (published by the Department of Labor and Human Resources of Puerto Rico),
increased 6.1%  for similar  reasons.  The rate  of inflation  has slowed  down in  recent months,  following a  mid-2022 peak,  as the
Federal Reserve has  implemented a series  of benchmark interest  rate increases.  The speed and scope of  the inflation slowdown
will inform  if and  how much  interest rates  will continue  to increase,  as well  how these  changes will  impact the  United States  and
Puerto Rico economies. 

93

 
 
Fiscal Challenges. 

As the  Puerto Rico economy contracted, the  government’s public debt rose rapidly, in part from borrowing to  cover deficits to pay
debt service, pension benefits and other  government expenditures.  By 2016, the  Puerto Rico government had over $120  billion in
combined debt and unfunded pension liabilities, had lost access to the capital markets, and was in the midst of a fiscal crisis.

Puerto Rico’s  escalating fiscal  and economic  challenges and imminent  widespread defaults  in its public debt  prompted the  U.S.
Congress to  enact the  Puerto Rico  Oversight, Management,  and Economic  Stability Act  (“PROMESA”) in  June 2016.  PROMESA
created the “Oversight Board” with ample powers over Puerto Rico’s fiscal and economic affairs and those of its public corporations,
instrumentalities and municipalities (collectively, “PR Government Entities”).  Pursuant to PROMESA, the Oversight Board will be in
place  until  market  access  is  restored  and  balanced  budgets  are  produced  for  at  least  four  consecutive  years.  PROMESA  also
established two  mechanisms for  the restructuring  of the  obligations of  PR Government  Entities: (a)  Title III,  which provides  an in-
court process that incorporates many of the  powers and provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and permits adjustment of a broad
range of obligations, and  (b) Title VI,  which provides for a  largely out-of-court process through which  modifications to financial debt
can be accepted by a supermajority of creditors and bind holdouts.

Since 2017, Puerto Rico and several of its instrumentalities have availed themselves of the debt restructuring mechanisms of Titles
III and VI of PROMESA. The Puerto Rico government emerged from Title III of PROMESA in March 2022. Several instrumentalities,
including Government Development Bank for  Puerto Rico,  the Puerto  Rico Sales Tax  Financing Corporation, and  the Puerto  Rico
Highways  and  Transportation  Authority,  have  also completed  debt  restructurings  under  Titles  III  or  VI  of  PROMESA.  While  the
majority  of  the  debt  has  already  been  restructured,  some  PR  Government  Entities  still  face  significant  fiscal  challenges.  For
example, the  Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority is still in  the process of restructuring its debts  under Title  III of  PROMESA and
other PR Government  Entities, such as  the Puerto Rico  Industrial Development Company,  have defaulted on  their bonds but  have
not commenced debt restructuring proceedings under PROMESA. 

Municipalities. 

Puerto Rico’s fiscal and economic challenges have also adversely impacted its municipalities. Budgetary subsidies to municipalities
have  gradually  declined in  recent  years  and  are  scheduled  to  be  ultimately  eliminated  by  fiscal  year  2025  as  part  of  the  fiscal
measures  required  by  the  Oversight  Board.  According  to  the  latest  Puerto  Rico  fiscal  plan  certified  by  the  Oversight  Board,
municipalities  have  made  little  to  no  progress  towards  implementing  the  fiscal  discipline  required  to  reduce  reliance  on  these
budgetary appropriations and this  lack of fiscal  management may threaten the  ability of certain municipalities to provide necessary
services, such as health, sanitation, public safety  and emergency services to their residents, forcing them to prioritize expenditures.
Municipalities  are  subject  to  PROMESA  and,  at  the  Oversight  Board’s  request,  are  required  to  submit  fiscal  plans  and  annual
budgets to  the Oversight Board for its  review and  approval. They are  also  required to  seek  Oversight Board  approval to issue,
guarantee or  modify  their  debts and  to  enter  into contracts  with an  aggregate value  of  $10 million or  more.  With the  Oversight
Board’s approval, municipalities are also eligible to avail themselves of the debt restructuring processes provided by PROMESA. To
date, however, no municipality has been subject to any such debt restructuring process. 

Exposure of the Corporation 

The credit quality of BPPR’s  loan portfolio reflects, among other  things, the general economic conditions  in Puerto Rico and  other
adverse conditions affecting Puerto  Rico consumers and businesses. Deterioration in the Puerto  Rico economy has resulted in the
past, and could result in the future,  in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses,  which could materially affect
our financial condition and results of operations. 

At December 31,  2022, the  Corporation’s direct  exposure to  PR Government  Entities totaled  $374 million, of  which $327  million
were  outstanding, compared  to  $367  million  at  December  31,  2021,  of  which  $349  million  were  outstanding. A  deterioration in
Puerto Rico’s fiscal and economic situation could adversely  affect the value of  our Puerto Rico government obligations, resulting in
losses to us. Of the amount outstanding, $302 million consists of loans and $25 million are securities ($319 million and $30 million,
respectively,  at December  31, 2021).  All of  the Corporation’s  direct exposure outstanding at  December 31,  2022 were  obligations
from various  Puerto Rico municipalities. In most cases,  these were  “general obligations” of a  municipality, to which  the applicable
municipality has pledged its  good faith, credit  and unlimited  taxing power,  or “special obligations”  of a municipality,  to which the
applicable municipality has pledged basic  property tax  or sales  tax  revenues. At  December 31,  2022, 73%  of the Corporation’s
exposure to municipal loans and securities was concentrated in the municipalities of San Juan,  Guaynabo, Carolina and Bayamón.

94

 
 
 
For  additional  discussion  of  the  Corporation’s  direct  exposure  to  the  Puerto  Rico  government  and  its  instrumentalities  and
municipalities, refer to Note 24 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In  addition,  at  December  31,  2022,  the  Corporation  had  $251  million  in  loans  insured  or  securities  issued  by  Puerto  Rico
governmental entities,  but for  which the  principal source  of repayment  is non-governmental  ($275 million at  December 31, 2021).
These included $209 million in residential mortgage  loans insured by  the Puerto Rico Housing Finance Authority  (“HFA”),  a PR
Government  Entity  (December  31,  2021  -  $232 million).  These  mortgage  loans  are  secured  by  first  mortgages  on  Puerto  Rico
residential properties and the  HFA insurance  covers losses  in the event of  a borrower default and  upon the  satisfaction of certain
other  conditions. The  Corporation also  had,  at  December 31,  2022,  $42  million  in  bonds  issued  by  HFA  which  are  secured  by
second mortgage loans  on Puerto  Rico residential properties,  and for  which HFA  also provides  insurance to  cover losses  in the
event of a borrower default, and upon the satisfaction of certain other conditions (December 31, 2021 - $43 million). In the event that
the mortgage loans insured by HFA and held by the Corporation directly or those serving as collateral for the HFA bonds default and
the collateral is insufficient to satisfy the outstanding balance of these loans, HFA’s  ability to honor its insurance will depend, among
other factors,  on the  financial condition  of HFA  at the  time such  obligations become  due and  payable. The  Corporation does  not
consider the government guarantee when estimating the credit losses associated with this portfolio. 

BPPR’s commercial loan  portfolio also  includes loans  to private borrowers  who are service  providers, lessors,  suppliers or  have
other relationships with the government. These borrowers could be negatively affected by a deterioration in the fiscal and  economic
situation  of  PR  Government  Entities.  Similarly,  BPPR’s  mortgage  and  consumer  loan  portfolios  include  loans  to  government
employees  and  retirees,  which  could  also  be  negatively  affected  by  fiscal  measures,  such  as  employee layoffs  or  furloughs  or
reductions in pension benefits, if the fiscal and economic situation deteriorates.

As  of  December  31,  2022,  BPPR  had  $15.2  billion  in  deposits  from  the  Puerto  Rico  government,  its  instrumentalities,  and
municipalities. The rate at  which public deposit balances may  decline is uncertain and difficult to predict. The  amount and timing of
any such  reduction is  likely to  be impacted  by,  for example,  the speed  at which  federal assistance  is distributed  and the  financial
condition, liquidity  and cash management practices of  such entities, as well  as on the ability  of BPPR to maintain  these customer
relationships.

The Corporation may  also have  direct exposure with  regards to  avoidance and  other causes  of action initiated  by the  Oversight
Board on behalf of the Commonwealth or other Title III debtors. For additional information regarding such exposure, refer to Note 24
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States Virgin Islands

The  Corporation  has  operations  in  the  United  States  Virgin  Islands  (the  “USVI”)  and  has  credit  exposure  to  USVI  government
entities.

The USVI has  been experiencing a number of fiscal  and economic challenges, which could adversely affect the ability of its  public
corporations and instrumentalities to service their outstanding debt obligations. PROMESA does not apply to the USVI and, as such,
there  is  currently  no  federal  legislation  permitting  the  restructuring  of  the  debts  of  the  USVI  and  its  public  corporations  and
instrumentalities.

To  the extent that the fiscal condition of the USVI continues to deteriorate, the  U.S. Congress or the  Government of the USVI may
enact legislation allowing for the restructuring of the financial obligations of USVI government entities or imposing a stay on creditor
remedies, including by making PROMESA applicable to the USVI. 

At December  31, 2022, the Corporation  had approximately $28  million in  direct exposure to  USVI government entities (December
31, 2021 - $70 million). 

British Virgin Islands

The Corporation has operations in the British Virgin Islands (“BVI”), which has been negatively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic,
particularly as  a reduction  in the  tourism activity which accounts for a  significant portion of its  economy. Although the  Corporation
has no significant exposure to a single borrower in the BVI, at December 31, 2022 it has a loan portfolio amounting to approximately
$214 million comprised of various retail and commercial clients, compared to a loan portfolio of $221 million at December 31, 2021.

U.S. Government

As further detailed in Notes 6 and 7 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements, a substantial portion of the Corporation’s investment
securities represented exposure  to the U.S. Government in  the form of U.S. Government  sponsored entities,  as well as agency

95

 
 
 
mortgage-backed and U.S. Treasury securities. In addition, $1.6 billion of residential mortgages, $38 million of SBA loans under the
Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) and $72 million commercial loans were insured or guaranteed by  the U.S. Government or its
agencies at December 31, 2022 (compared to $1.6 billion, $353 million and $67 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021).

Non-Performing Assets

Non-performing assets (“NPAs”)  include primarily past-due  loans that are no longer accruing interest,  renegotiated loans, and  real
estate property acquired through foreclosure. A summary, including certain credit quality metrics, is presented in Table 21.

During 2022, the Corporation showed favorable credit quality trends with low levels  of NCOs and decreasing NPLs. We  continue to
closely  monitor  changes  in  the  macroeconomic  environment  and  borrower  performance,  given  inflationary  pressures  and
geopolitical  uncertainty.  However,  management  believes  that  the  improvement  over  recent  years  in  the  risk  profile  of  the
Corporation’s loan portfolios positions Popular to operate successfully under the current environment. 

Total  NPAs  decreased  by  $104  million  when  compared  with  December  31,  2021.  Total  non-performing  loans  held-in-portfolio
(“NPLs”) decreased  by $108 million  from December 31,  2021. BPPR’s  NPLs decreased by  $112  million, mainly driven by  lower
mortgage and commercial NPLs by $91 million and  $38 million, respectively, in part offset by higher auto NPLs by $18 million.  The
mortgage  NPLs  decrease was mainly  due  to  the combined  effects  of collection  efforts,  increased foreclosure  activity  and  lower
inflows compared  with pre-pandemic  trends.  Popular U.S.  NPLs increased  by $4  million from  December 31,  2021, mainly  in the
commercial portfolio, in part due to an $11 million commercial borrower within the healthcare industry that was placed in non-accrual
status and for which a partial charge-off of $8.7 million was recognized during the fourth quarter of 2022. At December 31, 2022, the
ratio of  NPLs to  total loans  held-in-portfolio was  1.4% compared  to 1.9%,  at December  31, 2021.  Other real  estate owned  loans
(“OREOs”) increased  by $4  million. At  December 31,  2022, NPLs  secured by  real estate  amounted to  $303 million  in the  Puerto
Rico operations and  $33 million  in Popular  U.S. These  figures were  $428 million  and $31  million, respectively,  at December 31,
2021.

The Corporation’s commercial loan portfolio secured by real estate (“CRE”) amounted to $9.9 billion at December 31, 2022, of which
$3.1 billion was secured  with owner occupied properties, compared with $8.4 billion and  $1.8 billion, respectively,  at December 31,
2021. During  the first  quarter of  2022, the  Corporation reclassified $0.9 billion  of loans  from the  Commercial Real  Estate (“CRE”)
Non-Owner-Occupied category to the CRE Owner-Occupied category. The selected loans are primarily to skilled and assisted living
nursing homes where the majority of the revenues, which are  the basis for the repayment of the loans, are  generated from medical
and  related  operational activities. These  loans meet the  type  of business  and source  requirements as  defined  in  the  regulatory
guidance  allowing  this  classification.  CRE  NPLs  amounted to  $54  million  at  December  31,  2022,  compared  with  $77  million  at
December  31,  2021.  The  CRE  NPL  ratios  for  the  BPPR  and  Popular  U.S.  segments  were  1.04%  and  0.12%,  respectively,  at
December 31, 2021, compared with 1.95% and 0.04%, respectively, at December 31, 2021.

In addition to the NPLs included in Table 21, at December 31, 2022, there were $374 million of performing loans, mostly commercial
loans, which in management’s opinion, are currently subject to potential future classification as non-performing (December 31, 2021
- $214 million).

For  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  total  inflows  of  NPLs  held-in-portfolio,  excluding  consumer  loans,  decreased  by
approximately $74 million, when compared to the inflows for the same period in 2021. Inflows of NPLs held-in-portfolio at the  BPPR
segment decreased by $76 million compared to the same period in 2021, driven by lower mortgage and commercial inflows by $38
million each. Inflows of NPLs held-in-portfolio at the Popular U.S. segment increased by $2 million from the same period in 2021.

96

Table 21 - Non-Performing  Assets

(Dollars in thousands)

Non-accrual loans:

  Commercial 

  Construction 

Leasing

  Mortgage

  Auto

  Consumer 

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

BPPR

Popular
U.S.

Popular,
Inc.

BPPR

Popular
U.S.

Popular,
Inc.

$

82,171 $

10,868 $

93,039 $ 120,047 $

5,532 $ 125,579

-

5,941

-

-

-

485

5,941

3,102

-

-

485

3,102

242,391

20,488

262,879

333,887

21,969

355,856

40,978

-

40,978

23,085

-

23,085

30,528

6,076

36,604

33,683

6,087

39,770

Total non-performing  loans held-in-portfolio

402,009

37,432

439,441

514,289

33,588

547,877

Other real estate owned ("OREO")

Total non-performing  assets 

88,773

353

89,126

83,618

1,459

85,077

$ 490,782 $

37,785 $ 528,567 $ 597,907 $

35,047 $ 632,954

Accruing loans past-due 90 days or more [2]

$ 351,248 $

366 $ 351,614 $ 480,649 $

118 $ 480,767

Non-performing loans to loans held-in-portfolio

1.37 %

1.87 %

Interest lost 
[1] There were no non-performing loans held-for-sale  as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.

$

27,920

$

38,123

[2] It is the Corporation’s policy to report delinquent  residential mortgage loans insured by FHA or guaranteed  by the VA as accruing  loans past due 90
days or more as opposed to non-performing since the  principal repayment is insured. The balance of these loans  includes $14 million at December 31,
2022 related to the rebooking of loans previously pooled into  GNMA securities, in which the Corporation had a buy-back  option as further described
below (December 31, 2021 - $13 million). Under the GNMA  program, issuers such as BPPR have the option  but not the obligation to repurchase loans
that are 90 days or more past due. For accounting purposes,  these loans subject to the repurchase option are required  to be reflected (rebooked) on
the financial statements of BPPR with an offsetting  liability. These balances include  $190 million of residential mortgage loans insured  by FHA or
guaranteed by the VA that  are no longer accruing interest as of December 31, 2022 (December  31, 2021 - $304 million).  Furthermore, the Corporation
has approximately $42 million in reverse mortgage loans which  are guaranteed by FHA, but which are currently not accruing  interest.  Due to the
guaranteed nature of the loans, it is the Corporation's  policy to exclude these balances from non-performing  assets (December 31, 2021 - $50 million). 

97

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
208,882

2,825

(38,665)

(16,475)

(282,569)

355,918

285,752

84

(34,419)

(37,555)

(391,513)

(8,773)

481,920

Table 22 - Activity in Non -Performing Loans Held-in-Portfolio (Excluding Consumer  Loans)

For the year ended December 31, 2022

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$

454,419 $

27,501 $

481,920

(In thousands)

Beginning balance

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

158,128

-

(38,580)

(7,413)

(241,992)

50,754

2,825

(85)

(9,062)

(40,577)

Ending balance NPLs

$

324,562 $

31,356 $

Table 23 - Activity in Non -Performing Loans Held-in-Portfolio (Excluding Consumer  Loans)

For the year ended December 31, 2021

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$

639,932 $

28,412 $

668,344

(In thousands)

Beginning balance

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Loans transferred to held-for-sale

234,258

-

(34,419)

(35,963)

(349,389)

-

51,494

84

-

(1,592)

(42,124)

(8,773)

Ending balance NPLs

$

454,419 $

27,501 $

98

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24 - Activity in Non -Performing Commercial Loans Held-In-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2022

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$120,047

19,476

-

(4,763)

(5,872)

(46,717)

$82,171

$5,532

33,861

2,525

-

(8,935)

(22,115)

$10,868

$125,579

53,337

2,525

(4,763)

(14,807)

(68,832)

$93,039

Table 25 - Activity in Non -Performing Commercial Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Loans transferred to held-for-sale

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2021

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$204,092

57,132

-

(9,261)

(14,935)

(116,981)

-

$120,047

5,988

13,510

52

-

(1,042)

(11,203)

(1,773)

$5,532

$210,080

70,642

52

(9,261)

(15,977)

(128,184)

(1,773)

$125,579

Table 26  -  Activity in Non-Performing Construction Loans Held-In -Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Less:

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2022

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$485

(485)

$-

$-

-

$-

$485

(485)

$-

99

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27 -  Activity in Non-Performing Construction Loans Held-in -Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Loans in accrual status transfer to held-for-sale

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31, 2021

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$21,497

481

(6,620)

(14,873)

-

$485

$7,560

12,141

(523)

(12,178)

(7,000)

$-

$29,057

12,622

(7,143)

(27,051)

(7,000)

$485

Table 28 - Activity in Non -Performing Mortgage Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31,  2022

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$333,887

$21,969

$355,856

138,652

-

(33,817)

(1,541)

(194,790)

$242,391

16,893

300

(85)

(127)

(18,462)

$20,488

155,545

300

(33,902)

(1,668)

(213,252)

$262,879

Table 29 - Activity in Non -Performing Mortgage Loans Held-in-Portfolio

(In thousands)

Beginning balance - NPLs

Plus:

Less:

New non-performing loans

Advances on existing non-performing loans

Non-performing loans transferred to OREO

Non-performing loans charged-off

Loans returned to accrual status / loan collections

Ending balance - NPLs

For the year ended December 31,  2021

BPPR

Popular U.S.

Popular, Inc.

$414,343

$14,864

$429,207

176,645

-

(25,158)

(14,408)

(217,535)

$333,887

25,843

32

-

(27)

(18,743)

$21,969

202,488

32

(25,158)

(14,435)

(236,278)

$355,856

100

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Delinquencies

Another key measure used to evaluate and monitor the Corporation’s asset quality is loan  delinquencies. Loans delinquent 30 days
or  more  and  delinquencies, as  a  percentage of their  related  portfolio category  at December 31,  2022 and  2021,  are  presented
below.

Table 30 - Loan Delinquencies

(Dollars in thousands)

2022

2021

Commercial 

Construction 

Leasing

Mortgage [1]

Consumer 

Loans delinquent
30 days or more

Total loans

Total
delinquencies as a
percentage of total
loans

Loans delinquent
30 days or more

Total loans

Total
delinquencies as a
percentage of total
loans

$

119,476

$

15,739,132

0.76 % $

161,251

$

13,732,701

1.17 %

-

21,487

937,253

216,401

757,984

1,585,739

7,397,471

6,597,443

-

1.36

12.67

3.28

-

485

14,379

1,141,082

173,896

716,220

1,381,319

7,427,196

5,983,121

59,168

0.07

1.04

15.36

2.91

-

Loans held-for-sale

-

5,381

Total 
5.09 %
[1] Loans delinquent 30 days or more includes $0.5 billion of  residential mortgage loans insured by FHA or guaranteed  by the VA as of December  31,
2021 (December 31, 2020 - $0.6 billion). Refer to Note  8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional  information of guaranteed loans.

1,294,617 $

1,491,093 $

4.04 % $

32,083,150

29,299,725

$

Allowance for Credit Losses (“ACL”)

The Corporation adopted the new CECL accounting standard effective on January 1, 2020. The allowance for credit losses (“ACL”),
represents management’s estimate  of expected credit  losses through the  remaining contractual life  of the different loan segments,
impacted by expected  prepayments. The ACL is maintained at  a sufficient level to provide  for estimated credit  losses on collateral
dependent  loans  as  well  as  troubled  debt  restructurings  separately  from  the  remainder  of  the  loan  portfolio.  The  Corporation’s
management evaluates the adequacy of the ACL on a quarterly basis. In this evaluation, management considers current conditions,
macroeconomic  economic  expectations  through  a  reasonable  and  supportable  period,  historical  loss  experience,  portfolio
composition by loan type and  risk characteristics, results of periodic credit  reviews of individual loans, and regulatory requirements,
amongst other factors.

The Corporation must rely on  estimates and exercise judgment regarding matters where the ultimate outcome is unknown, such  as
economic developments affecting specific  customers, industries, or markets.  Other factors that can  affect management’s estimates
are  recalibration  of  statistical  models  used  to  calculate  lifetime  expected  losses,  changes  in  underwriting  standards,  financial
accounting standards and loan impairment measurements, among others. Changes in the financial condition of individual borrowers,
in economic  conditions, and  in the  condition of  the various  markets in  which collateral  may be  sold, may  also affect  the required
level of  the allowance  for credit  losses. Consequently,  the business  financial condition,  liquidity,  capital, and  results of  operations
could also be affected.

At December 31, 2022, the  allowance for credit  losses amounted to  $720 million, an  increase of $25  million, when compared  with
December 31, 2021. Given that  any one economic outlook is inherently uncertain, the  Corporation leverages multiple  scenarios to
estimate its ACL. The  baseline scenario continues to be assigned the highest probability,  followed by the pessimistic scenario.  The
Corporation evaluates,  at least on  an annual  basis, the  assumptions tied  to the  CECL accounting  framework. These  include the
reasonable and supportable period as  well  as the  reversion window.  During the  third  quarter of 2022, as  part of its  evaluation
procedures, the Corporation decided to extend the reversion window from 1 year to 3 years.  The extension in the reversion window
results in  a better  representation of  historical movements  for key  macroeconomic variables  that impact the  ACL. This  change in
assumptions contributed  to a  reduction of  $11  million in  the ACL.  The reasonable  and supportable  period assumptions  remained
unchanged at 2-years.

101

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
The baseline scenario assumes a 2023 annualized GDP growth for Puerto Rico and the United States of 1.3% and 0.7%. For 2022,
annualized expected growth was 2.6% and  1.8% for Puerto Rico  and United States,  respectively. The reduction in 2023  is due  to
the expected  slowdown in  the economy  as a  result of  tight monetary  policy,  weaker job  growth and  persistent inflation.  The 2023
average unemployment  rate is  forecasted at  7.8% and  4.0% for  Puerto Rico  and United States,  respectively,  compared to  2022
average levels of 6.4% for Puerto Rico and 3.7% for the United States. In 2023, weaker job growth due to the expected slowdown in
the economy will contribute to the increase in unemployment rate.

The ACL  for BPPR increased by $21  million to  $616 million, when  compared to  December 31, 2021,  mostly driven by changes in
the economic scenario, higher loan volumes and changes in credit quality The ACL for Popular U.S. increased by $4 million to $105
million, when compared to December 31, 2021. 

The provision  for credit  losses for  the year  ended December  31, 2022,  amounted to  an expense  of $83.3  million, compared  to a
benefit of $183.3 million for the year ended December 31,  2021, as  the  prior year included reductions in  reserves due to post-
pandemic improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and lower NCOs. Refer to Note 9 – Allowance for credit losses – loans held-
in-portfolio to the Consolidated Financial  Statements, and  to the Provision  for Credit Losses section  of this MD&A for  additional
information. 

The following  table presents  net charge-offs  to average  loans held-in-portfolio (“HIP”) ratios  by loan  category for  the years  ended
December 31, 2022 and 2021:

Table 31 - Net Charge-Offs  (Recoveries) to Average Loans HIP

Commercial 

Construction 

Mortgage 

Leasing

Consumer 

Total 

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

BPPR Popular U.S. Popular Inc.

BPPR Popular U.S. Popular Inc.

(0.14)%

0.11 %

(0.02)%

(0.24)%

(0.02)%

(0.15)%

(0.48)

(0.26)

0.26

1.22

(0.19)

-

-

1.33

(0.25)

(0.22)

0.26

1.22

1.27

(0.02)

0.19

0.04

0.11

0.58

-

-

0.99

0.04

0.11

0.60

0.23 %

0.12 %

0.20 %

0.09%

0.01%

0.07%

NCOs for the  year ended December  31, 2022 amounted to $59.3  million, increasing by  $38.6 million when  compared to the  same
period in  2021. The  BPPR segment  increased by  $29.4 million  mainly driven  by higher  consumer NCOs  by $40.5  million, mostly
auto loans, in part offset by lower mortgage NCOs by $18.5 million. The increase in the consumer NCOs was mostly related to post-
pandemic normalization, as NCOs continue at historical low levels.  The PB segment NCOs increased by $9.2 million, mainly driven
by  higher commercial  NCOs by $8.6  million,  due to the  $8.7 million charge-off  during the  fourth quarter of  2022 on the  above-
mentioned healthcare NPL. 

102

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32 - Allowance for Credit  Losses - Loan Portfolios

December 31, 2022

(Dollars in thousands)

Commercial Construction

Mortgage

Leasing

Consumer

Total

Total ACL

Total loans held-in -portfolio

ACL to loans held-in-portfolio

$

235,376

$ 15,739,132

$

$

4,246

757,984

$

$

135,254

7,397,471

1.50 %

0.56 %

1.83 %

Total Non-performing  loans held-in-portfolio

$

93,039

$

-

$

262,879

$

$

$

20,618

1,585,739

$

$

324,808

6,597,443

$

$

720,302

32,077,769

1.30 %

4.92 %

2.25 %

5,941

$

77,582

$

439,441

ACL to non-performing loans held-in-portfolio

252.99%

N.M.

51.45%

347.05%

418.66%

163.91%

N.M. - Not meaningful.

Table 33 - Allowance for Credit  Losses - Loan Portfolios

(Dollars in thousands)

Total ACL

Total loans held-in -portfolio

ACL to loans held-in-portfolio

December 31, 2021

Commercial Construction

Mortgage

Leasing

Consumer

Total

$

215,805

$ 13,732,701

1.57 %

$

$

$

6,363

716,220

$

$

154,478

7,427,196

0.89 %

2.08 %

485

$

355,856

$

$

$

17,578

1,381,319

$

$

301,142

5,983,121

$

$

695,366

29,240,557

1.27 %

5.03 %

2.38 %

3,102

$

62,855

$

547,877

Total Non-performing  loans held-in-portfolio

$

125,579

ACL to non-performing loans held-in-portfolio

171.85%

N.M.

43.41%

566.67%

479.11%

126.92%

N.M. - Not meaningful.

Table  34  details  the  breakdown  of  the  allowance  for  credit  losses  by  loan  categories.  The  breakdown  is  made  for  analytical
purposes, and it is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future loan losses may occur.

Table 34 - Allocation of the  Allowance for Credit Losses - Loans

At December 31,

(Dollars in millions)

Commercial

Construction

Mortgage

Leasing

Consumer

Total [1]

2022

2021

% of loans

in each

category to

% of loans

in each

category to

ACL

total loans

ACL

total loans

$235.4

49.1%

$215.8

47.0%

4.2

135.3

20.6

324.8

2.4

23.1

4.9

20.5

6.4

154.5

17.6

301.1

2.4

25.4

4.7

20.5

$720.3

100.0%

$695.4

100.0%

[1] Note: For purposes of this table the term loans refers to  loans held-in-portfolio excluding loans held-for-sale.

Troubled debt restructurings

The Corporation’s  troubled debt  restructurings (“TDRs”) loans  amounted to  $1.6 billion  at December 31, 2022,  decreasing by  $12
million, from  December 31,  2021. A  total  of $725 million of these TDRs  are  related to guaranteed loans,  which are in  accruing
status.  The  Corporation  has  offered  to  clients  impacted  by  the  hurricanes  Fiona  and  Ian  a  moratorium  of  up  to  three  monthly
payments  on  personal  and  commercial  credit  cards,  auto  loans,  leases,  and  personal  loans,  subject  to  certain  eligibility
requirements. Mortgage clients  also benefited from different  payment relief alternatives available, depending  on their  type of  loan.
Loan relief options  for commercial clients were reviewed on  a case-by-case basis.  As of December  31, 2022, approximately  2,428
loans with  a $94.8  million amortized  cost were  granted a  moratorium of  which 218  loans with  a $7.7  million amortized  cost have
been classified as TDR. 

103

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TDRs in the BPPR segment amounted to $1.6 billion, a decrease of $12 million, mostly related to lower consumer TDRs by $11
million. The Popular U.S. segment TDRs have remained essentially flat since December 31, 2021. TDRs in accruing status
increased by $26 million from December 31, 2021, mostly related to an increase of $26 million in BPPR’s mortgage TDRs, while
non-accruing TDRs decreased by $39 million, mostly related to lower mortgage and commercial TDRs by $26 million and $10
million, respectively. 

Refer to  Note 9  to the  Consolidated Financial  Statements for  additional information  on modifications  considered TDRs,  including
certain qualitative and quantitative data about TDRs performed in the past twelve months.

Enterprise Risk Management
The Corporation’s  Board of  Directors has  established a  Risk Management  Committee (“RMC”)  to, among  other things,  assist the
Board in its (i) oversight of the Corporation’s overall risk framework and (ii) to monitor, review, and approve policies to measure, limit
and manage the Corporation’s risks. 

The  Corporation has  established a  three  lines  of  defense framework:  (a)  business  line management constitutes  the  first  line  of
defense by identifying  and managing the  risks associated with  business activities, (b) components  of the Risk  Management Group
and  the  Corporate  Security  Group,  among  others,  act  as  the  second  line  of  defense  by,  among  other  things,  measuring  and
reporting on the Corporation’s risk activities, and (c) the Corporate Auditing Division, as the third line of defense, reporting directly to
the Audit Committee of the Board, by independently providing assurance regarding the effectiveness of the risk framework. 

The Enterprise Risk Management Committee (the “ERM Committee”) is a management committee whose purpose is to: (a) monitor
the principal risks  as defined  in the  Risk Appetite  Statement (“RAS”)  of the  Risk Management  Policy affecting our  business and
within the Corporation’s Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) framework, (b) review key risk indicators and related developments at
the  business  level  consistent  with  the  RAS,  and  (c)  lead  the  incorporation  of  a  uniform  Governance,  Risk  and  Compliance
framework across the  Corporation. The  ERM Committee and the  Enterprise Risk Management  Department in  the Financial and
Operational Risk Management  Division (the “FORM Division”), in  coordination with the  Chief Risk Officer, create  the framework to
identify and  manage multiple  and cross-enterprise  risks, and  to articulate  the RAS  and supporting  metrics. Our risk  management
program  monitors the  following  principal  risks: credit,  interest  rate, market,  liquidity,  operational, cyber  and  information  security,
climate, legal, regulatory affairs, regulatory and financial compliance, BSA/ AML & sanctions, strategic and reputational.

The  Enterprise  Risk  Management  Department  has  established  a  process  to  ensure  that  an  appropriate  standard  readiness
assessment is performed before we launch a new product or service. Similar procedures are followed with the Treasury  Division for
transactions involving the purchase and sale of assets, and by the Mergers and Acquisitions Division for acquisition transactions.

The Asset/Liability  Committee (“ALCO”),  composed of  senior management  representatives from  the business  lines and  corporate
functions, and the Corporate Finance Group, are responsible for planning and executing the Corporation’s market, interest rate risk,
funding  activities  and  strategy,  as  well  as  for  implementing  approved  policies  and  procedures.  The  ALCO  also  reviews  the
Corporation’s  capital  policy  and  the  attainment  of the  capital  management  objectives. In  addition, the  Financial  Risk, Corporate
Insurance Advisory  Department independently  measures, monitors  and reports  compliance with  liquidity and  market risk  policies,
and oversees controls surrounding interest risk measurements.

The Corporate Compliance  Committee, comprised of senior management team  members and representatives from the Regulatory
and Financial  Compliance Division  and the  Financial Crimes  Compliance Division,  among others,  are responsible  for overseeing
and  assessing  the  adequacy  of  the  risk  management  processes  that  underlie  Popular’s  compliance  program  for  identifying,
assessing,  measuring,  monitoring,  testing,  mitigating,  and  reporting  compliance  risks.  They  also  supervise  Popular’s  reporting
obligations under the compliance program so as to ensure the adequacy, consistency and timeliness of the reporting of compliance-
related risks across the Corporation. 

The Regulatory Affairs  team is responsible for maintaining  an open dialog  with the banking  regulatory agencies in  order to ensure
regulatory risks  are  properly identified,  measured, monitored, as  well as  communicated to  the  appropriate regulatory  agency as
necessary to keep them apprised of material matters within the purview of these agencies.

104

The  Credit  Strategy  Committee,  composed  of  senior  level  management  representatives  from  the  business  lines  and  corporate
functions,  and  the  Corporate  Credit  Risk  Management  Division,  are  responsible  for  managing  the  Corporation’s  overall  credit
exposure by establishing policies, standards and guidelines that define, quantify and monitor credit risk and assessing the adequacy
of the allowance for credit losses. 

The Corporation’s  Operational Risk Committee (“ORCO”) and the  Cyber Security  Committee, which are  composed of  senior level
management representatives from  the business lines  and corporate functions,  provide executive oversight  to facilitate consistency
of effective  policies, best practices,  controls and monitoring tools for  managing and assessing all types  of operational risks across
the Corporation. The  FORM Division, within the Risk Management Group,  serves as ORCO’s  operating arm and  is responsible for
establishing baseline processes to measure, monitor, limit and manage operational risk. 

The Corporate Security Group (“CSG”), under the direction of the Chief Security Officer, leads all efforts pertaining to cybersecurity,
enterprise fraud and data privacy, including developing strategies and oversight processes with  policies and programs that mitigate
compliance, operational,  strategic, financial  and reputational  risks associated  with the  Corporation’s and  our customers’  data and
assets.  The CSG also leads the Cyber Security Committee.

The Corporate Legal Division, in this context, has the responsibility of assessing, monitoring, managing and reporting with respect to
legal risks, including those related to litigation, investigations and other material legal matters. 

The Corporation  has also  established an  ESG Committee  whose purpose  and responsibility  is to  oversee the  Corporation’s ESG
strategies and  support the  development and  consistent application  of policies,  processes and  procedures that  measure, limit  and
manage ESG matters and risks. The ESG  Committee also assesses  ESG-related considerations in  the credit  approval process of
commercial credit applications.

The processes  of strategic  risk planning  and the  evaluation of  reputational risk  are on-going  processes through  which continuous
data gathering and  analysis are performed.  In order to ensure strategic  risks are properly  identified and monitored,  the Corporate
Strategy and Transformation Division,  which reports to  the Corporation’s  Chief Operations Officer,  performs periodic assessments
regarding corporate strategic priority  initiatives, such as  the Corporation’s  transformation initiative and other emerging issues.  The
Acquisitions  and  Corporate  Investments  Division  continuously  assesses  potential  strategic  transactions.  The  Corporate
Communications  Division  is  responsible  for  the  monitoring,  management  and  implementation  of  action  plans  with  respect  to
reputational risk issues. 

Popular’s capital planning process integrates the Corporation’s risk profile as well as its strategic focus, operating environment, and
other factors  that could  materially affect  capital adequacy  in hypothetical  highly-stressed business scenarios. Capital  ratio targets
and triggers take into consideration the different risks evaluated under Popular’s risk management framework.

In addition to  establishing a  formal process  to manage  risk, our  corporate culture  is also  critical to  an effective  risk management
function.  Through our Code  of Ethics, the Corporation provides a framework  for all our  employees to conduct themselves with the
highest integrity.

ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Refer to Note 3, “New Accounting Pronouncements” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

105

 
At December 31,

2022

2021

$

469,501 $

428,433

5,614,595
5,614,595
27,723
17,804,374
8,525,366
6,911
8,518,455
195,854
5,381

17,536,719
17,536,719
29,711
24,968,269
79,461
8,096
71,365
189,977
59,168

32,372,925
295,156
720,302
31,357,467
498,711
89,126
240,195
128,350
1,847,813
827,428
12,944

29,506,225
265,668
695,366
28,545,191
494,240
85,077
203,096
121,570
1,628,571
720,293
16,219
$ 67,637,917 $ 75,097,899

$ 15,960,557 $ 15,684,482
51,320,606
67,005,088
91,603
75,000
988,563
968,248
69,128,502

45,266,670
61,227,227
148,609
365,000
886,710
916,946
63,544,492

22,143
1,047
4,790,993
3,834,348
(2,030,178)
(2,524,928)
4,093,425

22,143
1,046
4,650,182
2,973,745
(1,352,650)
(325,069)
5,969,397
$ 67,637,917 $ 75,097,899

Statistical Summary 2022-2021
Statements of Financial Condition

(In thousands)
Assets:
Cash and due from banks
Money market investments: 

Time deposits with other banks 
Total money market investments

Trading account debt securities, at fair value
Debt securities available-for-sale, at fair value
Debt securities held-to-maturity, at amortized cost

Less – Allowance for credit losses
Debt securities held-to-maturity, net

Equity securities
Loans held-for-sale, at lower of cost or fair value
Loans held-in-portfolio:

Loans held-in-portfolio
Less – Unearned income

Allowance for credit losses

Total loans held-in-portfolio, net

Premises and equipment, net
Other real estate 
Accrued income receivable
Mortgage servicing rights, at fair value
Other assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Total assets
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Liabilities: 

Deposits: 

Non-interest bearing
Interest bearing
Total deposits

Assets sold under agreements to repurchase
Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable
Other liabilities

Total liabilities
Stockholders’ equity:
Preferred stock
Common stock
Surplus
Retained earnings
Treasury stock – at cost
Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax

Total stockholders’ equity 

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

106

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Summary 2020-2022
Statements of Operations

(In thousands)

Interest income:

Loans

Money market investments

Investment securities

Total interest income

Less - Interest expense

Net interest income

Provision for credit losses (benefit)

Net interest income after provision for credit losses

Mortgage banking activities

Net gain on sale of debt securities

Net (loss) gain, including impairment, on equity securities

Net (loss) gain on trading account debt securities

Net (loss) gain on sale of loans, including valuation adjustments on loans held-for-sale

Adjustment to indemnity reserves on loans sold

Other non-interest income

Total non-interest income

Operating expenses: 

Personnel costs

All other operating expenses

Total operating expenses

Income before income tax 

Income tax expense

Net Income

Net Income Applicable to Common Stock 

For the years ended December 31,

2022

2021

2020

$

1,876,166 $

1,747,827 $

1,742,390

118,080

471,665

21,147

353,663

19,721

329,440

2,465,911

2,122,637

2,091,551

298,552

165,047

234,938

2,167,359

1,957,590

1,856,613

83,030

(193,464)

292,536

2,084,329

2,151,054

1,564,077

42,450

50,133

10,401

-

(7,334)

(784)

-

919

861,811

897,062

719,764

1,026,656

23

131

(389)

(73)

4,406

587,897

642,128

631,802

917,473

41

6,279

1,033

1,234

390

492,934

512,312

564,205

893,624

1,746,420

1,549,275

1,457,829

1,234,971

1,243,907

132,330

309,018

618,560

111,938

1,102,641 $

934,889 $

506,622

1,101,229 $

933,477 $

504,864

$

$

107

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Statistical Summary 2020-2022
Average Balance Sheet and Summary of Net Interest Income

On a Taxable Equivalent  Basis*

(Dollars in thousands)
Assets
Interest earning assets:
Money market investments
U.S.  Treasury securities
Obligations of U.S.  Government 

sponsored entities

Obligations of Puerto Rico, States

2022

2021

2020

Average
Balance

Interest 

Average
Rate 

Average
Balance

Interest 

Average
Rate 

Average
Balance

Interest 

Average
Rate 

$

9,530,698 $

21,141,431

118,079
448,961

1.24 %$ 15,999,741 $
2.12

12,396,773

21,147
266,670

0.13 %$
2.16

8,597,652 $

19,723 0.23 %

12,107,819

257,308

2.13

41

2

5.66

7,972

120

1.50

70,424

2,818 4.00

and political subdivisions

67,965

7,824 11.51

75,607

7,608 10.06

82,051

5,705 6.95

Collateralized mortgage obligations and

 mortgage-backed securities

Other 
Total investment securities
Trading account securities
Loans (net of unearned income)

Total interest earning  assets/Interest
income
Total non-interest  earning assets
Total assets

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 
Interest bearing liabilities:
Savings, NOW,  money market and
other
   interest bearing demand accounts
Time deposits
Federal funds purchased
Securities purchased under agreement
to resell
Other short-term borrowings
Notes payable 

8,342,672
190,489
29,742,598
51,357
30,405,280

198,566
8,925
664,278
3,049
1,924,895

2.38
4.68
2.23
5.94
6.33

10,255,525
194,640
22,930,517
84,380
29,074,036

224,706
9,027
508,131
4,339
1,794,789

2.19
4.64
2.22
5.16
6.19

6,913,416
178,818
19,352,528
69,446
28,384,981

194,794

467,994

2.82
7,369 4.12
2.42
4,165 6.00
6.29

1,785,022

$ 69,729,933 $ 2,710,301

3.89 %$ 68,088,674 $ 2,328,406

3,078,671
$ 72,808,604

3,079,976
$ 71,168,650

3.43 %$ 56,404,607 $ 2,276,904
3,178,848
$ 59,583,455

4.04 %

$ 41,769,576 $
6,853,127
7

191,064
61,781
-

0.46 %$ 41,387,504 $
0.90
3.92

7,028,334
1

107,305
99,083
938,778

2,309
3,428
39,970

2.15
3.46
4.26

91,394
343
1,184,737

59,034
52,587
-

317
1
53,107

0.15 %$ 32,077,578 $
0.75
0.25

7,970,474
342

92,417 0.29 %
83,438 1.05
1 0.25

0.35
0.35
4.49

143,718
21,557
1,178,169

2,336 1.63
120 0.56
56,626 4.81

Total interest bearing  liabilities/Interest
expense

49,767,876
17,031,503
  Total non-interest  bearing liabilities
66,799,379
Total liabilities
Stockholders' equity 
6,009,225
Total liabilities and  stockholders' equity $ 72,808,604

298,552

0.60

49,692,313
15,698,685
65,390,998
5,777,652
$ 71,168,650

165,046

0.33

41,391,838
12,771,679
54,163,517
5,419,938
$ 59,583,455

234,938

0.57

Net interest income on a taxable
equivalent basis
Cost of funding earning assets

Net interest margin

Effect of the taxable equivalent
adjustment

Net interest income per books

$ 2,411,749

$ 2,163,360

$ 2,041,966

0.43 %

3.46 %

0.24 %

3.19 %

0.42 %

3.62 %

244,390

$ 2,167,359

205,770

$ 1,957,590

185,353

$ 1,856,613

*  Shows  the  effect  of  the  tax  exempt  status  of  some  loans  and  investments  on  their  yield,  using  the  applicable  statutory  income  tax  rates.  The
computation considers  the interest  expense disallowance  required by  the Puerto  Rico Internal  Revenue Code.  This adjustment  is shown  in order  to
compare the yields of the tax exempt and taxable assets  on a taxable basis. 

Note: Average loan  balances include the  average balance of  non-accruing loans. No  interest income is  recognized for these  loans in accordance  with
the Corporation’s policy. 

108

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
