ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Organization The Company’s equipment operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to John Deere dealers and distributors. The equipment operations manufacture and distribute a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; and a broad range of equipment for construction, roadbuilding, and forestry. The Company’s financial services primarily provide credit services, which mainly finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and trade receivables purchased from the equipment operations. In addition, financial services offers extended equipment warranties. The information in the following discussion is presented in a format that includes information grouped as consolidated, equipment operations, and financial services. The Company also views its operations as consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada. The Company’s operating segments consist of production and precision agriculture, small agriculture and turf, construction and forestry, and financial services. Trends and Economic Conditions Industry sales of large agricultural machinery in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be up about 25 percent for 2021 compared to the prior year. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be up about 10 percent in 2021. Industry sales of agricultural machinery in Europe are also forecast to be up about 10 percent. In South America, industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to be up about 20 percent in 2021. Industry sales of agricultural machinery in Asia are forecast to be up slightly. Construction industry sales in U.S. and Canada for 2021 are expected to increase about 15 to 20 percent, while compact construction equipment in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to increase about 20 to 25 percent. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be 15 to 20 percent higher. The Company’s financial services operations are expected to benefit from improvement on operating lease residual values, income earned on a higher average portfolio, a lower provision for credit losses, and more favorable financing spreads for fiscal year 2021 compared to the prior year. Items of concern include uncertainty of the effectiveness of governmental and private sector actions to address COVID, trade agreements, the uncertainty of the results of monetary and fiscal policies, the impact of elevated levels of sovereign and state debt, capital market disruptions, changes in demand and pricing for new and used equipment, geopolitical events, and the other items discussed in the “Safe Harbor Statement” below. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and volatility in the price of many commodities could also impact the Company’s results. The future financial effects of COVID are unknown due to many factors. As a result, predicting the Company’s forecasted financial performance is subject to many assumptions. The Company’s results were delivered across its entire business lineup, reflecting strong worldwide markets for farm and construction equipment. The Company’s smart industrial operating strategy continues to have a significant impact on performance while also helping customers do their jobs in a more profitable and sustainable manner. While the Company is performing well, increased supply-chain pressures are expected through the remainder of the year. The Company is working closely with key suppliers to secure the parts and components that its customers need to deliver essential food production and infrastructure. Despite these challenges, the Company is on track for a strong year and well positioned to unlock greater value for its customers and other stakeholders in the future. 37 COVID Effects and Actions The effects of COVID and the related actions of governments and other authorities to contain COVID continue to affect the Company’s operations, results, cash flows, and forecasts. The U.S. government and many other governments in countries where the Company operates have designated the Company an essential critical infrastructure business. This designation allows the Company to operate in support of its customers to the extent possible. The Company’s first priority in addressing the effects of COVID continues to be the health, safety, and overall welfare of its employees. The Company effectively activated previously established business continuity plans and proactively implemented health and safety measures at its operations around the world. The Company broadened its supply base to minimize the impact of potential supply chain disruptions on its ability to meet customer demand. While the impact to operations during the first six months of 2021 was not material, the Company continues to monitor the situation and work closely with suppliers. The Company continued to work closely with distribution channel and equipment user customers in the first half of 2021 in connection with short-term payment relief on obligations owed to the Company. Financing receivables and operating leases granted relief since the beginning of the pandemic that remained outstanding at May 2, 2021 represented about 4 percent and 3 percent of the portfolio balances, respectively. The trade receivable balance granted relief that remained outstanding at May 2, 2021 was not material. Additional information is presented in Notes 4, 11, and 17. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded impairments totaling $114 million pretax and $105 million after-tax related to certain fixed assets, operating lease equipment, and a minority investment in a construction equipment company headquartered in South Africa (see Note 22). In the first six months of 2020, total voluntary employee-separation program (VSEP) expense recognized was $136 million pretax. 38 The worldwide equipment operations net sales, operating profit, and net income in millions of dollars, and price realization and the effect of currency translation are shown below. Also shown are U.S. and Canada, and outside U.S. and Canada equipment operations net sales in millions of dollars, price realization, and currency translation. The cost of sales to net sales ratio decreased in the second quarter and the first six months primarily due to price realization and impairments recorded in 2020 (see Note 22). The first six months of 2020 were also impacted by VSEP costs. Other income increased in both periods due to gains on the disposition of operating lease equipment in 2021 and unrealized gains on equity securities. Research and development expenses decreased in both periods from efficiencies gained and timing of project initiatives. Selling, administrative and general expenses decreased in both periods primarily due to a lower provision for credit losses and VSEP costs recorded in 2020 (see Note 22), partially offset by higher incentive compensation. Other operating expenses decreased in both periods primarily due to impairments on operating lease residual values and losses on the disposition of operating lease equipment in 2020 and lower depreciation of equipment on operating leases.Production and precision agriculture sales increased for the quarter due to higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit rose primarily due to price realization and higher shipment volumes / sales mix. These items were partially offset by higher production costs. Sales for the first six months increased mainly as a result of higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit for the first six months increased primarily resulting from price realization, higher shipment volumes / sales mix, and a favorable indirect tax ruling in Brazil. The prior period was also impacted by voluntary employee-separation program expenses. Partially offsetting these factors were higher production costs. Small agriculture and turf sales for the quarter increased due to higher shipment volumes, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher shipment volumes / sales mix, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency exchange. These items were partially offset by higher production costs. Sales for the first six months increased mainly as a result of higher shipment volumes, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. Operating profit for the first six months increased primarily resulting from higher shipment volumes / sales mix, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency exchange. The prior period was also impacted by voluntary employee-separation program expenses. Partially offsetting these factors were higher production costs. Construction and forestry sales moved higher for the quarter primarily due to higher shipment volumes, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. Operating profit increased due to higher shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization. Results for the prior period were affected by impairments in certain fixed assets and an unconsolidated equipment company headquartered in South Africa (see Note 22). The segment’s six-month sales also increased due to higher shipment volumes, price realization, and the favorable effects of foreign currency translation. The first six-month’s operating profit moved higher mainly due to increased shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization. The prior period was also impacted by voluntary employeeseparation program expenses and impairments in certain fixed assets and an unconsolidated equipment company headquartered in South Africa (see Note 22). Financial services operating profit increased for the quarter and the first six months primarily due to a lower provision for credit losses, improvement on operating lease residual values, and more favorable financing spreads. Results last year also included impairments on lease residual values (see Note 22). The average balance of receivables and leases financed was 4 percent higher in the second quarter and 3 percent higher in the first six months of 2021, compared with the same periods last year. Interest expense decreased in the second quarter and first six months of 2021 primarily as a result of lower average borrowing rates. Safe Harbor Statement Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements under “Overview” and other forward-looking statements herein that relate to future events, expectations, and trends involve factors that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. The Company’s agricultural equipment businesses are subject to a number of uncertainties including the factors that affect farmers’ confidence and financial condition. These factors include demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions, soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, trade restrictions and tariffs (e.g., China), global trade agreements, the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms), the growth and sustainability of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of governments, changes in government farm programs and policies, international reaction to such programs, changes in and effects of crop insurance programs, changes in environmental regulations and their impact on farming practices, animal diseases (e.g., African swine fever) and their effects on poultry, beef and pork consumption and prices and on livestock feed demand, and crop pests and diseases and the impact of the COVID pandemic on the agricultural industry including demand for, and production and exports of, agricultural products, and commodity prices. The production and precision agriculture business is dependent on agricultural conditions, and relies on hardware and software, guidance, connectivity and digital solutions, and automation and machine intelligence. Many factors contribute to the Company’s precision agriculture sales and results, including the impact to customers’ profitability or sustainability outcomes; the rate of adoption and use by customers; availability of technological innovations; speed of research and development; effectiveness of partnerships with third-parties; and the dealer channel’s ability to support and service precision technology solutions. Factors affecting the outlook for the Company’s small agriculture and turf equipment include agricultural conditions, consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, labor supply, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts and supply, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs. Consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts, interest rates, commodity prices such as oil and gas, the levels of public and non-residential construction, and investment in infrastructure affect sales and results of the Company’s construction and forestry equipment. Prices for pulp, paper, lumber and structural panels affect sales of forestry equipment. Many of the factors affecting production and precision agriculture, small agriculture and turf, and construction and forestry segments, have been and may continue to be impacted by global economic conditions, including those resulting from the COVID pandemic and responses to the pandemic taken by governments and other authorities. 43 All of the Company’s businesses and its results are affected by general economic conditions in the global markets and industries in which the Company operates; customer confidence in general economic conditions; government spending and taxing; foreign currency exchange rates and their volatility, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; interest rates (including the availability of IBOR reference rates); inflation and deflation rates; changes in weather patterns; the political and social stability of the global markets in which the Company operates; the effects of, or response to, terrorism and security threats; wars and other conflicts; natural disasters; and the spread of major epidemics (including the COVID pandemic) and government and industry responses to epidemics such as travel restrictions and extended shut down of businesses. Uncertainties related to the magnitude and duration of the COVID pandemic may significantly adversely affect the Company’s business and outlook. These uncertainties include: the duration and impact of any resurgence in COVID cases in any country, state, or region; the emergence, contagiousness, and threat of new and different strains of COVID; the availability, acceptance, and effects of vaccines; prolonged reduction or closure of the Company’s operations, or a delayed recovery in our operations; additional closures as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities; disruptions in the supply chain and a prolonged delay in resumption of operations by one or more key suppliers, or the failure of any key suppliers; the Company’s ability to meet commitments to customers on a timely basis as a result of increased costs and supply challenges; the ability to receive goods on a timely basis and at anticipated costs; increased logistics costs; delays in the Company’s strategic initiatives as a result of reduced spending on research and development; additional operating costs due to remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines and other COVID-related challenges; increased risk of cyber attacks on network connections used in remote working arrangements; increased privacy-related risks due to processing health-related personal information; legal claims related to personal protective equipment designed, made, or provided by the Company or alleged exposure to COVID on Company premises; absence of employees due to illness; the impact of the pandemic on the Company’s customers and dealers, and their delays in their plans to invest in new equipment; requests by the Company’s customers or dealers for payment deferrals and contract modifications; the impact of disruptions in the global capital markets and/or declines in the Company’s financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, which could impact the Company’s ability to obtain funding in the future; and the impact of the pandemic on demand for our products and services as discussed above. It remains unclear when a sustained economic recovery could occur and what a recovery may look like. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions, changes in the Company’s credit ratings and any failure to comply with financial covenants in credit agreements could impact access to funding and funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Financial market conditions could also negatively impact customer access to capital for purchases of the Company’s products and customer confidence and purchase decisions, borrowing and repayment practices, and the number and size of customer loan delinquencies and defaults. A debt crisis in Europe, Latin America, or elsewhere could negatively impact currencies, global financial markets, social and political stability, funding sources and costs, asset and obligation values, customers, suppliers, demand for equipment, and Company operations and results. The Company’s investment management activities could be impaired by changes in the equity, bond and other financial markets, which would negatively affect earnings. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and elsewhere. The economic conditions and outlook could be further adversely affected by (i) uncertainty regarding any new or modified trade arrangements between the United Kingdom and the European Union and/or other countries, (ii) the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or (iii) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the Eurozone could cease to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the United Kingdom or the European Union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial and monetary systems. Any of these developments could affect our businesses, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Additional factors that could materially affect the Company’s operations, access to capital, expenses and results include changes in, uncertainty surrounding and the impact of governmental trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies, including financial regulatory reform and its effects on the consumer finance industry, derivatives, funding costs and other areas; governmental programs, policies, and tariffs for the benefit of certain industries or sectors; sanctions in particular jurisdictions; retaliatory actions to such changes in trade, banking, monetary and fiscal policies; actions by central banks; actions by financial and securities regulators; actions by environmental, health and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions, carbon and other greenhouse gas 44 emissions, noise and the effects of climate change; changes to GPS radio frequency bands or their permitted uses; changes in labor and immigration regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates, estimates, laws and regulations and Company actions related thereto; changes to and compliance with privacy regulations; changes to and compliance with economic sanctions and export controls laws and regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign laws when expanding to new markets and otherwise; and actions by other regulatory bodies. Other factors that could materially affect results include production, design and technological innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; the loss of or challenges to intellectual property rights whether through theft, infringement, counterfeiting or otherwise; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components and whole goods; delays or disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or the loss of liquidity by suppliers; disruptions of infrastructures that support communications, operations or distribution; the failure of customers, dealers, suppliers or the Company to comply with laws, regulations and Company policy pertaining to employment, human rights, health, safety, the environment, sanctions, export controls, anti-corruption, privacy and data protection and other ethical business practices; events that damage the Company’s reputation or brand; significant investigations, claims, lawsuits or other legal proceedings; start-up of new plants and products; the success of new product initiatives or business strategies; changes in customer product preferences and sales mix; gaps or limitations in rural broadband coverage, capacity and speed needed to support technology solutions; oil and energy prices, supplies and volatility; the availability and cost of freight; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the Company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; changes in demand and pricing for used equipment and resulting impacts on lease residual values; labor relations and contracts; changes in the ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified personnel; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; greater than anticipated transaction costs; the integration of new businesses; the failure or delay in closing or realizing anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; the inability to deliver precision technology and agricultural solutions to customers; the implementation of the smart industrial operating strategy and other organizational changes; the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits of cost reduction, productivity, or efficiency efforts; difficulties related to the conversion and implementation of enterprise resource planning systems; security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, technology failures and other disruptions to the Company’s and suppliers’ information technology infrastructure; changes in Company declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases; changes in the level and funding of employee retirement benefits; changes in market values of investment assets, compensation, retirement, discount and mortality rates which impact retirement benefit costs; and significant changes in health care costs. The liquidity and ongoing profitability of John Deere Capital Corporation and other credit subsidiaries depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations, costs, and purchases of the Company’s products. If general economic conditions deteriorate or capital markets become more volatile, including as a result of the COVID pandemic, funding could be unavailable or insufficient. Additionally, customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact write-offs and provisions for credit losses. The Company’s forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information concerning the Company and its businesses, including factors that could materially affect the Company’s financial results, is included in the Company’s other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q). Critical Accounting Policies See the Company’s critical accounting policies discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to these policies, other than as described below related to the allowance for credit losses, as a result of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-13 during the first quarter of 2021. The allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the credit losses expected over the life of the Company’s receivable portfolio. The Company measures expected credit losses on a collective basis when similar risk characteristics exist. Risk characteristics considered by the Company include finance product category, market, geography, credit risk, and remaining duration. Receivables that do not share risk characteristics with other receivables in the portfolio are evaluated on an individual basis. 45 The Company utilizes loss forecast models, which are selected based on the size and credit risk of the underlying pool of receivables, to estimate expected credit losses. Transition matrix models are used for large and complex customer receivable pools, while weighted average remaining maturity models are used for smaller and less complex customer receivable pools. Expected credit losses on wholesale receivables are based on historical loss rates, adjusted for current economic conditions. The modeled expected credit losses are adjusted based on reasonable and supportable forecasts, which may include economic indicators such as commodity prices, industry equipment sales, unemployment rates, and housing starts. Management reviews each model’s output quarterly, and qualitative adjustments are incorporated as necessary. While the Company believes its allowance is sufficient to provide for losses over the life of its existing receivable portfolio, different assumptions or changes in economic conditions would result in changes to the allowance for credit losses and the provision for credit losses. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate, the Company’s consolidated totals, equipment operations, and financial services operations. Consolidated Positive cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first six months of 2021 were $1,786 million. This cash inflow resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in net accrued income taxes payable/receivable, partially offset by a seasonal increase in receivables related to sales and inventories. Cash outflows from investing activities were $1,387 million in the first six months of 2021, primarily due to the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $745 million, purchases of property and equipment of $320 million, a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $255 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $27 million. Negative cash flows from financing activities were $441 million in the first six months of 2021 primarily due to repurchases of common stock of $1,044 million and dividends paid of $480 million, partially offset by an increase in borrowings of $1,022 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $116 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options). Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $109 million during the first six months of this year. Positive cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first six months of 2020 were $776 million. This cash inflow resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and a change in net retirement benefits, partially offset by a seasonal increase in receivables related to sales and inventories, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash inflows from investing activities were $30 million in the first six months of 2020, primarily due to a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $319 million, and collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases exceeding the cost of these receivables and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired by $195 million, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $441 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $32 million. Positive cash flows from financing activities were $4,343 million in the first six months of 2020 primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $5,098 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $70 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options), partially offset by dividends paid of $481 million and repurchases of common stock of $263 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $5,047 million during the first six months of 2020. The increase in cash was primarily related to equipment operations long-term borrowing issuances to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID in 2020. The Company has access to most global markets at a reasonable cost and expects to have sufficient sources of global funding and liquidity to meet its funding needs. Sources of liquidity for the Company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization of retail notes (both public and private markets), and committed and uncommitted bank lines of credit. The Company’s commercial paper outstanding at May 2, 2021, November 1, 2020, and May 3, 2020 was $2,259 million, $1,238 million, and $3,424 million, respectively, while the total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities position was $7,850 million, $7,707 million, and $9,526 million, respectively. The total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $4,972 million, $5,010 million, and $4,034 million at May 2, 2021, November 1, 2020, and May 3, 2020, respectively. Lines of Credit. The Company also has access to bank lines of credit with various banks throughout the world. Worldwide lines of credit totaled $8,211 million at May 2, 2021, $5,741 million of which were unused. For the purpose of computing unused credit lines, commercial paper, and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were primarily considered to constitute utilization. 46 Included in the total credit lines at May 2, 2021 was a 364-day credit facility agreement of $3,000 million expiring in fiscal April 2022. In addition, total credit lines included long-term credit facility agreements of $2,500 million expiring in fiscal April 2025 and $2,500 million expiring in fiscal March 2026. These credit agreements require John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation) to maintain its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding securitization indebtedness, to capital base (total subordinated debt and stockholder’s equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) at not more than 11 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit agreements also require the equipment operations to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end of each fiscal quarter. Under this provision, the Company’s excess equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at May 2, 2021 was $14,445 million. Alternatively under this provision, the equipment operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $26,826 million at May 2, 2021. All of these credit agreement requirements have been met during the periods included in the financial statements. Debt Ratings. To access public debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign shortterm and long-term credit ratings to the Company’s securities as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors. A security rating is not a recommendation by the rating agency to buy, sell, or hold Company securities. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw Company ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs, including costs of derivative transactions, and reduced access to debt capital markets. The senior long-term and short-term debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to unsecured Company debt securities by the rating agencies engaged by the Company are as follows: Trade accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to independent dealers. Trade receivables increased $1,987 million during the first six months of 2021, primarily due to a seasonal increase and higher overall demand. These receivables increased $172 million, compared to a year ago, primarily due to an increase in demand. The ratios of worldwide trade accounts and notes receivable to the last 12 months’ net sales were 17 percent at May 2, 2021, compared to 13 percent at November 1, 2020 and 18 percent at May 3, 2020. Production and precision agriculture trade receivables increased $247 million, small agriculture and turf trade receivables increased $17 million, and construction and forestry trade receivables decreased $92 million, compared to a year ago. The percentage of total worldwide trade receivables outstanding for periods exceeding 12 months was 2 percent at May 2, 2021, 3 percent at November 1, 2020, and 3 percent at May 3, 2020. Deere & Company stockholders’ equity was $15,092 million at May 2, 2021, compared with $12,937 million at November 1, 2020 and $11,864 million at May 3, 2020. The increase of $2,155 million during the first six months of 2021 resulted primarily from net income attributable to Deere & Company of $3,013 million, a change in the cumulative translation adjustment of $433 million, a change retirement benefits adjustment of $154 million, and an increase in common stock of $104 million, partially offset by dividends declared of $520 million and an increase in treasury stock of $987 million. The Company plans to make a voluntary contribution to its U.S. OPEB plan for $700 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Equipment Operations The Company’s equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external financing sources. Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first six months of 2021 was $2,507 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for noncash provisions, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from an increase in inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $138 million in the first six months of 2021. 47 Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first six months of 2020 was $842 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for noncash provisions and a change in net retirement benefits. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, a seasonal increase in inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $4,281 million in the first six months of 2020. The increase in cash was primarily related to equipment operations long-term borrowing issuances to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID in 2020. Trade receivables held by the equipment operations increased $212 million during the first six months and decreased $194 million from a year ago. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. See the previous consolidated discussion of trade receivables. Inventories increased by $1,043 million during the first six months, primarily reflecting a seasonal increase, increased overall demand, and foreign currency translation. Inventories decreased by $129 million compared to a year ago. A majority of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The ratios of inventories on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis (see Note 13), which approximates current cost, to the last 12 months’ cost of sales were 30 percent at May 2, 2021, compared to 28 percent at November 1, 2020 and 31 percent at May 3, 2020. Total interest-bearing debt, excluding finance lease liabilities, of the equipment operations was $10,421 million at May 2, 2021, compared with $10,382 million at November 1, 2020 and $11,343 million at May 3, 2020. The ratios of debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and stockholders’ equity) were 41 percent, 45 percent, and 49 percent at May 2, 2021, November 1, 2020, and May 3, 2020, respectively. In the second quarter of 2020, the equipment operations issued three tranches of notes in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $2,250 million that are due from 2025 to 2050. The equipment operations also issued EuroMedium-Term notes with aggregate principal totaling €2,000 million (approximately $2,170 million based on the exchange rate at the issue date) that are due from 2024 to 2032. In the second quarter of 2020, the equipment operations issued commercial paper in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $466 million, of which $448 million had an original term greater than 90 days. None of the commercial paper was repaid in the second quarter of 2020 and was presented in “Increase in total short-term borrowings” in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Property and equipment cash expenditures for the equipment operations in the first six months of 2021 were $319 million, compared with $440 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2021 are estimated to be approximately $925 million. Financial Services The financial services operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of commercial paper, term debt, securitization of retail notes, equity capital, and borrowings from Deere & Company. During the first six months of 2021, the cash provided by operating and financing activities was used primarily to increase receivables and leases. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $948 million in the first six months. Cash used for investing activities totaled $2,544 million in the first six months of 2021 primarily due an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $1,246 million, the cost of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and cost of equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding the collection of these receivables and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $1,007 million, a change in collateral on derivatives - net of $254 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $29 million. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $1,540 million, resulting primarily from an increase in external borrowings of $1,136 million and an increase in borrowings from Deere & Company of $562 million, partially offset by dividends paid to Deere & Company of $145 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $29 million in the first six months of 2021. During the first six months of 2020, the cash provided by operating activities and financing activities was used primarily to increase trade and wholesale receivables. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $991 million in the first six months of 2020. Cash used for investing activities totaled $329 million in the first six months of 2020 primarily due to an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $673 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $32 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from a change in collateral on derivatives - net of $319 million, and collections of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and proceeds from sales of equipment 48 on operating leases exceeding the cost of these receivables and the cost of equipment on operating leases acquired by $94 million. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $148 million, resulting primarily from an increase in borrowings from Deere & Company of $292 million and an increase in external borrowings of $94 million, partially offset by dividends paid to Deere & Company of $225 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $766 million in the first six months of 2020. Receivables and leases held by the financial services operations consist of retail notes originated in connection with retail sales of new and used equipment by dealers of John Deere products, retail notes from non-Deere equipment customers, trade receivables, wholesale notes, revolving charge accounts, credit enhanced international export financing generally involving John Deere products, sales-type and direct financing leases, and operating leases. Total receivables and leases increased $2,460 million during the first six months of 2021 and increased $3,236 million in the past 12 months. Acquisition volumes of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and leases were 18 percent higher in the first six months of 2021, compared with the same period last year, as volumes of retail notes, financing leases, and revolving charge accounts were higher, while volumes of operating leases were lower. The amount of total trade receivables and wholesale notes increased compared to November 1, 2020 and May 3, 2020. Total external interest-bearing debt of the financial services operations was $36,873 million at May 2, 2021, compared with $35,556 million at November 1, 2020 and $38,761 million at May 3, 2020. Total external borrowings have changed generally corresponding with the level of receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in payables owed to Deere & Company, and the change in investment from Deere & Company. The financial services operations’ ratio of interest-bearing debt, including intercompany debt, to stockholder’s equity was 7.7 to 1 at May 2, 2021, compared with 7.8 to 1 at November 1, 2020 and 8.3 to 1 at May 3, 2020. Capital Corporation has a revolving credit agreement to utilize bank conduit facilities to securitize retail notes (see Note 12). At May 2, 2021, this facility had a total capacity, or “financing limit,” of up to $2,000 million of secured financings at any time. After a two-year revolving period, unless the banks and Capital Corporation agree to renew, Capital Corporation would liquidate the secured borrowings over time as payments on the retail notes are collected. At May 2, 2021, $1,261 million of short-term securitization borrowings was outstanding under the agreement. In the first six months of 2021, the financial services operations issued $1,009 million and retired $1,573 million of retail note securitization borrowings. In addition, during the first six months of 2021, the financial services operations issued $3,967 million and retired $3,127 million of long-term borrowings, which were primarily mediumterm notes. Dividends and Other Events The Company’s Board of Directors at its meeting on May 26, 2021 declared a quarterly dividend of $.90 per share payable August 9, 2021, to stockholders of record on June 30, 2021. In May 2021, the Company’s financial services operations entered into a retail note securitization using its bank conduit facility that resulted in securitization borrowings of $723 million. Supplemental Consolidating Information The supplemental consolidating data presented on the subsequent pages is presented for informational purposes. The equipment operations represents the enterprise without financial services. The equipment operations includes the Company’s production and precision agriculture operations, small agriculture and turf operations, construction and forestry operations, and other corporate assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses not reflected within financial services. Transactions between the “equipment operations” and “financial services” have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements. The equipment operations and financial services participate in different industries. The equipment operations primarily generate earnings and cash flows by manufacturing and distributing equipment, service parts, and technology solutions to dealers and end users. Financial services primarily finances sales and leases by dealers of new and used equipment that is largely manufactured by the Company. The financial services’ earnings and cash flows generally are finance income received from customer payments less interest expense, and depreciation on equipment subject to an operating lease. These two businesses are capitalized differently and have separate performance metrics. The supplemental consolidating data assists management in evaluating these two businesses.