ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Organization The Company’s equipment operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to John Deere dealers and distributors. The equipment operations manufacture and distribute a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; and a broad range of equipment for construction, roadbuilding, and forestry. The Company’s financial services primarily provide credit services, which mainly finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and trade receivables purchased from the equipment operations. In addition, financial services offers extended equipment warranties. The information in the following discussion is presented in a format that includes information grouped as consolidated, equipment operations, and financial services. The Company also views its operations as consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada. The Company’s operating segments consist of production and precision agriculture, small agriculture and turf, construction and forestry, and financial services. Trends and Economic Conditions Industry sales of large agricultural machinery in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be up about 25 percent for 2021 compared to the prior year. Industry sales of small agricultural and turf equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be up about 10 percent in 2021. Industry sales of agricultural machinery in Europe are forecast to be up about 10 to 15 percent. In South America, industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to be up about 20 percent in 2021. Industry sales of agricultural machinery in Asia are forecast to be up significantly. Construction industry sales in the U.S. and Canada for 2021 are expected to increase about 15 to 20 percent, while compact construction equipment in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to increase about 20 to 25 percent. In forestry, global industry sales are expected to be about 15 percent higher. The Company’s financial services operations are expected to benefit from improvement on operating lease residual values, a lower provision for credit losses, more favorable financing spreads, and income earned on a higher average portfolio for fiscal year 2021 compared to the prior year. Items of concern include uncertainty of the effectiveness of governmental and private sector actions to address COVID, supply of critical parts and components, trade agreements, the uncertainty of the results of monetary and fiscal policies, the impact of elevated levels of sovereign and state debt, capital market disruptions, changes in demand and pricing for new and used equipment, geopolitical events, and the other items discussed in the “Safe Harbor Statement” below. Significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and volatility in the price of many commodities could also impact the Company’s results. The future financial effects of COVID are unknown due to many factors. As a result, predicting the Company’s forecasted financial performance is subject to many assumptions. The Company’s strong results, driven by essentially all product lines, reflect strong worldwide markets for farm and construction equipment and the dedication of the Company’s employees and dealers to keep factories running and customers served while enduring significant supply chain pressures. The Company’s smart industrial operating model continues to be demonstrated in enhanced financial performance and strategic investments reinforcing efforts to help customers achieve improved profitability, productivity, and sustainability through the effective use of technology. While increased supply chain pressures are expected to persist through the remainder of the year, the Company is working closely with key suppliers to secure the parts and components that customers need to deliver essential food production and infrastructure. Despite these challenges, we believe the Company is well positioned for a strong year, to continue to deliver precision technologies, and to unlock greater value for customers and other stakeholders in the future. 38 COVID Effects, Actions, and Recent Developments The effects of COVID and the related actions of governments and other authorities to contain COVID continue to affect the Company’s operations, results, cash flows, and forecasts. The U.S. government and many other governments in countries where the Company operates have designated the Company an essential critical infrastructure business. This designation allows the Company to operate in support of its customers to the extent possible. The Company’s first priority in addressing the effects of COVID continues to be the health, safety, and overall welfare of its employees. The Company effectively activated previously established business continuity plans and proactively implemented health and safety measures at its operations around the world. The Company broadened its supply base to minimize the impact of potential supply chain disruptions on its ability to meet customer demand. The Company has experienced shortages of critical parts and components, which has presented challenges and production disruptions. The Company continues to monitor the situation and work closely with suppliers. The Company continued to work closely with distribution channel and equipment user customers in the first nine months of 2021 in connection with short-term payment relief on obligations owed to the Company. Financing receivables and operating leases granted relief since the beginning of the pandemic that remained outstanding at August 1, 2021 represented about 3 percent of the respective portfolio balances. The trade receivable balance granted relief that remained outstanding at August 1, 2021 was not material. Additional information is presented in Notes 4, 11, and 17. In the third quarter of 2021, the Company sold a closed factory that previously produced small agricultural equipment in China, resulting in a $27 million gain recorded in “Other income.” In the third quarter of 2020, the Company recorded impairments totaling $37 million pretax and after-tax related to an agreement to sell its German turf business and a factory closure in China. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded impairments totaling $114 million pretax and $105 million after-tax related to certain fixed assets, operating lease equipment, and a minority investment in a construction equipment company headquartered in South Africa. In the first nine months of 2020, total voluntary employee-separation program (VSEP) expense recognized was $138 million pretax. See Note 22 for more information on 2021 and 2020 special items. The cost of sales to net sales ratio decreased in the third quarter and the first nine months primarily due to price realization and impairments recorded in 2020 (see Note 22). The first nine months of 2020 were also impacted by VSEP costs. Other income increased in both periods due to a gain on the sale of a factory in China and gains on the disposition of operating lease equipment in 2021. Research and development expenses were higher for the current three months but were lower for the first nine months primarily due to timing of project initiatives. Selling, administrative and general expenses increased in the third quarter primarily due to higher incentive compensation. Selling, administrative and general expenses decreased on a year-to-date basis primarily due to a lower provision for credit losses and VSEP costs recorded in 2020 (see Note 22), partially offset by higher incentive compensation. Other operating expenses decreased in both periods primarily due to lower retirement benefit costs, lower depreciation of equipment on operating leases, and an impairment of the German walk-behind lawn mower business in 2020. Results for the prior nine-month period also included impairments on lease residual values and losses on the disposition of operating lease equipment. Production and precision agriculture sales increased for the quarter due to higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit rose primarily due to higher shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization. These items were partially offset by higher production costs. Sales for the first nine months increased mainly as a result of higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit for the first nine months increased primarily resulting from higher shipment volumes / sales mix, price realization, and a favorable indirect tax ruling in Brazil. Partially offsetting these factors were higher production costs. The prior year was also impacted by voluntary employee-separation program expenses. Small agriculture and turf sales for the quarter increased due to higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit increased primarily due to higher shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization. These items were partially offset by higher production costs. Results for the current period were positively impacted by a gain on the sale of a factory in China while results for the prior period were affected by impairments and closure costs.Sales for the first nine months increased mainly as a result of higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit for the first nine months increased primarily resulting from higher shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization. Partially offsetting these factors were higher production costs. Results for the current year were positively impacted by a gain on the sale of a factory in China, while results for the prior year were affected by impairments, closure costs and voluntary employee-separation program expenses. Construction and forestry sales moved higher for the quarter primarily due to higher shipment volumes and price realization. Operating profit increased due to higher shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization, partially offset by higher production costs. The segment’s nine-month sales also increased due to higher shipment volumes and price realization. The first ninemonth’s operating profit moved higher mainly due to increased shipment volumes / sales mix and price realization, partially offset by higher production costs. The prior year was also impacted by voluntary employee-separation program expenses and impairments in certain fixed assets and an unconsolidated equipment company headquartered in South Africa. Financial services revenues increased due to higher average portfolio balances and gains on operating lease dispositions for the third quarter of 2021 offset by lower financing rates. Financial services revenues decreased in the first nine months of 2021 due to lower financing rates, partially offset by higher average portfolio balances and gains on operating lease dispositions. The average balance of receivables and leases financed was 8 percent higher in the third quarter and 4 percent higher in the first nine months of 2021, compared with the same periods last year. Interest expense decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of 2021 primarily as a result of lower average borrowing rates. Operating profit increased for the quarter primarily due to an improvement on operating lease residual values, income earned on a higher average portfolio, a lower provision for credit losses, and more favorable financing spreads. Results for the first nine months increased primarily due to a lower provision for credit losses, an improvement on operating lease residual values, more favorable financing spreads, and income earned on a higher average portfolio. The first nine months of 2020 also included impairments on lease residual values (see Note 22). Safe Harbor Statement Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements under “Overview” and other forward-looking statements herein that relate to future events, expectations, and trends involve factors that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the Company’s businesses. The Company’s agricultural equipment businesses are subject to a number of uncertainties, including certain factors that affect farmers’ confidence and financial condition. These factors include demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, weather conditions, soil conditions, harvest yields, prices for commodities and livestock, crop and livestock production expenses, availability of transport for crops, trade restrictions and tariffs (e.g., China), global trade agreements, the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically modified organisms), the growth and sustainability of non-food uses for some crops (including ethanol and biodiesel production), real estate values, available acreage for farming, the land ownership policies of governments, changes in government farm programs and policies, international reaction to such programs, changes in and effects of crop insurance programs, changes in environmental regulations and their impact on farming practices, animal diseases (e.g., African swine fever) and their effects on poultry, beef, and pork consumption and prices and on livestock feed demand, crop pests and diseases, and the impact of the COVID pandemic on the agricultural industry including demand for, and production and exports of, agricultural products, and commodity prices. The production and precision agriculture business is dependent on agricultural conditions, and relies in part on hardware and software, guidance, connectivity and digital solutions, and automation and machine intelligence. Many factors contribute to the Company’s precision agriculture sales and results, including the impact to customers’ profitability and/or sustainability outcomes; the rate of adoption and use by customers; availability of technological innovations; speed of research and development; effectiveness of partnerships with third parties; and the dealer channel’s ability to support and service precision technology solutions. Factors affecting the Company’s small agriculture and turf equipment operations include agricultural conditions, consumer confidence, weather conditions, customer profitability, labor supply, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing preferences, housing starts and supply, infrastructure investment, spending by municipalities and golf courses, and consumable input costs. Factors affecting the Company’s construction and forestry equipment operations include consumer spending patterns, real estate and housing prices, the number of housing starts, interest rates, commodity prices such as oil and gas, the levels of public and non-residential construction, and investment in infrastructure. Prices for pulp, paper, lumber, and structural panels affect sales of forestry equipment. Many of the factors affecting the production and precision agriculture, small agriculture and turf, and construction and forestry segments have been and may continue to be impacted by global economic conditions, including those resulting from the COVID pandemic and responses to the pandemic taken by governments and other authorities. 44 All of the Company’s businesses and its results are affected by general economic conditions in the global markets and industries in which the Company operates; customer confidence in general economic conditions; government spending and taxing; foreign currency exchange rates and their volatility, especially fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; interest rates (including the availability of IBOR reference rates); inflation and deflation rates; changes in weather patterns; the political and social stability of the global markets in which the Company operates; the effects of, or response to, terrorism and security threats; wars and other conflicts; natural disasters; and the spread of major epidemics (including the COVID pandemic) and government and industry responses to epidemics, such as travel restrictions and extended shut down of businesses. Uncertainties related to the magnitude and duration of the COVID pandemic may significantly adversely affect the Company’s business and outlook. These uncertainties include: the duration and impact of any resurgence in COVID cases in any country, state, or region; the emergence, contagiousness, and threat of new and different strains of coronavirus; the availability, acceptance, and effects of vaccines; prolonged reduction or closure of the Company’s operations, or a delayed recovery in our operations; additional closures as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities; disruptions in the supply chain and a prolonged delay in resumption of operations by one or more key suppliers, or the failure of any key suppliers; the Company’s ability to meet commitments to customers on a timely basis as a result of increased costs and supply challenges; the ability to receive goods on a timely basis and at anticipated costs; increased logistics costs; delays in the Company’s strategic initiatives as a result of reduced spending on research and development; additional operating costs due to remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines and other COVID-related challenges; increased risk of cyber-attacks on network connections used in remote working arrangements; increased privacy-related risks due to processing health-related personal information; legal claims related to personal protective equipment designed, made, or provided by the Company or alleged exposure to COVID on Company premises; absence of employees due to illness; the impact of the pandemic on the Company’s customers and dealers, and their delays in their plans to invest in new equipment; requests by the Company’s customers or dealers for payment deferrals and contract modifications; the impact of disruptions in the global capital markets and/or declines in the Company’s financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, which could impact the Company’s ability to obtain funding in the future; and the impact of the pandemic on demand for our products and services as discussed above. It remains unclear when a sustained economic recovery could occur and what a recovery may look like. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial position. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions, changes in the Company’s credit ratings, and any failure to comply with financial covenants in credit agreements could impact access to funding and funding costs, which could reduce the Company’s earnings and cash flows. Financial market conditions could also negatively impact customer access to capital for purchases of the Company’s products and customer confidence and purchase decisions, financing and repayment practices, and the number and size of customer delinquencies and defaults. A debt crisis in Europe, Latin America, or elsewhere could negatively impact currencies, global financial markets, social and political stability, funding sources and costs, asset and obligation values, customers, suppliers, demand for equipment, and Company operations and results. The Company’s investment management activities could be impaired by changes in the equity, bond, and other financial markets, which would negatively affect earnings. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal may adversely affect business activity, political stability, and economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union, and elsewhere. The economic conditions and outlook could be further adversely affected by (i) uncertainty regarding any new or modified trade arrangements between the United Kingdom and the European Union and/or other countries, (ii) the risk that one or more other European Union countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Union, or (iii) the risk that the euro as the single currency of the Eurozone could cease to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could affect economic growth or business activity in the United Kingdom or the European Union, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, availability of credit, currency exchange rates, interest rates, financial institutions, and political, financial, and monetary systems. Any of these developments could affect our businesses, liquidity, results of operations, and financial position. Additional factors that could materially affect the Company’s operations, access to capital, expenses, and results include changes in, uncertainty surrounding, and the impact of governmental trade, banking, monetary, and fiscal policies, including financial regulatory reform and its effects on the consumer finance industry, derivatives, funding costs, and other areas; governmental programs, policies, and tariffs for the benefit of certain industries or sectors; sanctions in particular jurisdictions; retaliatory actions to such changes in trade, banking, monetary, and fiscal policies; actions by central banks; actions by financial and securities regulators; actions by environmental, health, 45 and safety regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions, carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions, noise, and the effects of climate change; changes to GPS radio frequency bands or their permitted uses; changes in labor and immigration regulations; changes to accounting standards; changes in tax rates, estimates, laws, and regulations and Company actions related thereto; changes to and compliance with privacy, banking, and other regulations; changes to and compliance with economic sanctions and export controls laws and regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign laws when expanding to new markets and otherwise; and actions by other regulatory bodies. Other factors that could materially affect the Company’s results include production, design, and technological innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; the loss of or challenges to intellectual property rights, whether through theft, infringement, counterfeiting, or otherwise; the availability and prices of strategically sourced materials, components, and whole goods; delays or disruptions in the Company’s supply chain or the loss of liquidity by suppliers; disruptions of infrastructures that support communications, operations, or distribution; the failure of customers, dealers, suppliers, or the Company to comply with laws, regulations, and Company policy pertaining to employment, human rights, health, safety, the environment, sanctions, export controls, anti-corruption, privacy and data protection, and other ethical business practices; events that damage the Company’s reputation or brand; significant investigations, claims, lawsuits, or other legal proceedings; start-up of new plants and products; the success of new product initiatives or business strategies; changes in customer product preferences and sales mix; gaps or limitations in rural broadband coverage, capacity, and speed needed to support technology solutions; oil and energy prices, supplies, and volatility; the availability and cost of freight; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the Company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices, especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; changes in demand and pricing for used equipment and resulting impacts on lease residual values; labor relations and contracts; changes in the ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified personnel; acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; greater-than-anticipated transaction costs; the integration of new businesses; the failure or delay in closing or realizing anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures, or divestitures; the inability to deliver precision technology and agricultural solutions to customers; the implementation of the smart industrial operating model and other organizational changes; the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits of cost reduction, productivity, or efficiency efforts; difficulties related to the conversion and implementation of enterprise resource planning systems; security breaches, cybersecurity attacks, technology failures, and other disruptions to the information technology infrastructure of the Company and its suppliers and dealers; changes in Company-declared dividends and common stock issuances and repurchases; changes in the level and funding of employee retirement benefits; changes in market values of investment assets, compensation, retirement, discount, and mortality rates which impact retirement benefit costs; and significant changes in health care costs. The liquidity and ongoing profitability of John Deere Capital Corporation and the Company’s other financial services subsidiaries depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements, and to fund operations, costs, and purchases of the Company’s products. If general economic conditions deteriorate or capital markets become more volatile, including as a result of the COVID pandemic, funding could be unavailable or insufficient. Additionally, customer confidence levels may result in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact write-offs and provisions for credit losses. The Company’s forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The Company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information concerning the Company and its businesses, including factors that could materially affect the Company’s financial results, is included in the Company’s other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q). Critical Accounting Policies See the Company’s critical accounting policies discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K. There have been no material changes to these policies, other than as described below related to the allowance for credit losses, as a result of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-13 during the first quarter of 2021. The allowance for credit losses is an estimate of the credit losses expected over the life of the Company’s receivable portfolio. The Company measures expected credit losses on a collective basis when similar risk characteristics exist. Risk characteristics considered by the Company include finance product category, market, geography, credit risk, 46 and remaining duration. Receivables that do not share risk characteristics with other receivables in the portfolio are evaluated on an individual basis. The Company utilizes loss forecast models, which are selected based on the size and credit risk of the underlying pool of receivables, to estimate expected credit losses. Transition matrix models are used for large and complex customer receivable pools, while weighted average remaining maturity models are used for smaller and less complex customer receivable pools. Expected credit losses on wholesale receivables are based on historical loss rates, adjusted for current economic conditions. The modeled expected credit losses are adjusted based on reasonable and supportable forecasts, which may include economic indicators such as commodity prices, industry equipment sales, unemployment rates, and housing starts. Management reviews each model’s output quarterly, and qualitative adjustments are incorporated as necessary. While the Company believes its allowance is sufficient to provide for losses over the life of its existing receivable portfolio, different assumptions or changes in economic conditions would result in changes to the allowance for credit losses and the provision for credit losses. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate, the Company’s consolidated totals, equipment operations, and financial services operations. Consolidated Positive cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first nine months of 2021 were $4,314 million. This cash inflow resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by a seasonal increase in inventories and receivables related to sales. Cash outflows from investing activities were $3,102 million in the first nine months of 2021, primarily due to the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $2,381 million, purchases of property and equipment of $492 million, a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $189 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $33 million. Negative cash flows from financing activities were $851 million in the first nine months of 2021 primarily due to repurchases of common stock of $1,780 million and dividends paid of $761 million, partially offset by an increase in borrowings of $1,634 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $136 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options). Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $467 million during the first nine months of this year. Positive cash flows from consolidated operating activities in the first nine months of 2020 were $4,057 million. This cash inflow resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions, a decrease in receivables related to sales, and a change in net retirement benefits, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash outflows from investing activities were $1,517 million in the first nine months of 2020, primarily due to the cost of receivables and equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding collections of receivables (excluding receivables related to sales) and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $1,214 million, purchases of property and equipment of $594 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $21 million, partially offset by a change in collateral on derivatives – net of $324 million. Positive cash flows from financing activities were $1,724 million in the first nine months of 2020 primarily due to an increase in borrowings of $2,704 million and proceeds from issuance of common stock of $111 million (resulting from the exercise of stock options), partially offset by dividends paid of $718 million and repurchases of common stock of $263 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $4,344 million during the first nine months of 2020. The increase in cash was primarily to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID in 2020. The Company has access to most global markets at a reasonable cost and expects to have sufficient sources of global funding and liquidity to meet its funding needs. Sources of liquidity for the Company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization of retail notes (both public and private markets), and committed and uncommitted bank lines of credit. The Company’s commercial paper outstanding at August 1, 2021, November 1, 2020, and August 2, 2020 was $1,882 million, $1,238 million, and $1,987 million, respectively, while the total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities position was $8,207 million, $7,707 million, and $8,830 million, respectively. The total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $5,690 million, $5,010 million, and $4,816 million at August 1, 2021, November 1, 2020, and August 2, 2020, respectively. Lines of Credit. The Company also has access to bank lines of credit with various banks throughout the world. Worldwide lines of credit totaled $8,146 million at August 1, 2021, $6,131 million of which were unused. For the purpose of computing unused credit lines, commercial paper, and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured 47 borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were primarily considered to constitute utilization. Included in the total credit lines at August 1, 2021 was a 364-day credit facility agreement of $3,000 million expiring in fiscal April 2022. In addition, total credit lines included long-term credit facility agreements of $2,500 million expiring in fiscal April 2025 and $2,500 million expiring in fiscal March 2026. These credit agreements require John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation) to maintain its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding securitization indebtedness, to capital base (total subordinated debt and stockholder’s equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) at not more than 11 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit agreements also require the equipment operations to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end of each fiscal quarter. Under this provision, the Company’s excess equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at August 1, 2021 was $15,195 million. Alternatively under this provision, the equipment operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $28,219 million at August 1, 2021. All of these credit agreement requirements have been met during the periods included in the financial statements. Debt Ratings. To access public debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign shortterm and long-term credit ratings to the Company’s securities as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors. A security rating is not a recommendation by the rating agency to buy, sell, or hold Company securities. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw Company ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs, including costs of derivative transactions, and reduced access to debt capital markets. The senior long-term and short-term debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to unsecured Company debt securities by the rating agencies engaged by the Company are as follows: Trade accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to independent dealers. Trade receivables increased $1,097 million during the first nine months of 2021, primarily due to a seasonal increase and higher overall demand. These receivables decreased $205 million, compared to a year ago. The ratios of worldwide trade accounts and notes receivable to the last 12 months’ net sales were 14 percent at August 1, 2021, compared to 13 percent at November 1, 2020 and 17 percent at August 2, 2020. Production and precision agriculture trade receivables decreased $286 million, small agriculture and turf trade receivables increased $103 million, and construction and forestry trade receivables decreased $22 million, compared to a year ago. The percentage of total worldwide trade receivables outstanding for periods exceeding 12 months was 2 percent at August 1, 2021, 3 percent at November 1, 2020, and 3 percent at August 2, 2020. Deere & Company stockholders’ equity was $15,731 million at August 1, 2021, compared with $12,937 million at November 1, 2020 and $12,888 million at August 2, 2020. The increase of $2,794 million during the first nine months of 2021 resulted primarily from net income attributable to Deere & Company of $4,680 million, a change in the cumulative translation adjustment of $319 million, a retirement benefits adjustment of $208 million, and an increase in common stock of $136 million, partially offset by an increase in treasury stock of $1,715 million and dividends declared of $800 million. The Company previously planned to make a voluntary contribution to its U.S. OPEB plan for $700 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. This voluntary contribution will be delayed into fiscal year 2022. Equipment Operations The Company’s equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external financing sources. Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first nine months of 2021 was $4,185 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from an increase in 48 inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $495 million in the first nine months of 2021. Cash provided by operating activities of the equipment operations, including intercompany cash flows, in the first nine months of 2020 was $2,855 million. This resulted primarily from cash inflows from net income adjusted for non-cash provisions, a decrease in inventories and trade and financing receivables held by the equipment operations, and a change in net retirement benefits. Partially offsetting these operating cash inflows were cash outflows from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and a change in accrued income taxes payable/receivable. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $4,255 million in the first nine months of 2020. The increase in cash was primarily to provide added liquidity due to the financial uncertainty created by COVID in 2020. Trade receivables held by the equipment operations increased $114 million during the first nine months and decreased $124 million from a year ago. The equipment operations sell a significant portion of their trade receivables to financial services. See the previous consolidated discussion of trade receivables. Inventories increased by $1,411 million during the first nine months, primarily reflecting a seasonal increase, increased overall demand, and foreign currency translation. Inventories increased by $760 million compared to a year ago due to increased overall demand. A majority of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The ratios of inventories on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis (see Note 13), which approximates current cost, to the last 12 months’ cost of sales were 29 percent at August 1, 2021, compared to 28 percent at November 1, 2020 and 30 percent at August 2, 2020. Total interest-bearing debt, excluding finance lease liabilities, of the equipment operations was $10,305 million at August 1, 2021, compared with $10,382 million at November 1, 2020 and $11,056 million at August 2, 2020. The ratios of debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and Deere & Company’s stockholders’ equity) were 40 percent, 45 percent, and 46 percent at August 1, 2021, November 1, 2020, and August 2, 2020, respectively. In the second quarter of 2020, the equipment operations issued three tranches of notes in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $2,250 million that are due from 2025 to 2050. The equipment operations also issued EuroMedium-Term notes with aggregate principal totaling €2,000 million (approximately $2,170 million based on the exchange rate at the issue date) that are due from 2024 to 2032. In the first nine months of 2020, the equipment operations issued commercial paper in the U.S. with aggregate principal totaling $466 million, of which $448 million had an original term greater than 90 days. Commercial paper repaid in the third quarter of 2020 was $406 million. The net increase is presented in “Increase in total short-term borrowings” in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Property and equipment cash expenditures for the equipment operations in the first nine months of 2021 were $491 million, compared with $591 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2021 are estimated to be approximately $900 million. Financial Services The financial services operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of commercial paper, term debt, securitization of retail notes, equity capital, and borrowings from Deere & Company. During the first nine months of 2021, the cash provided by operating and financing activities was used primarily to increase receivables and leases. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $1,445 million in the first nine months. Cash used for investing activities totaled $3,662 million in the first nine months of 2021 primarily due the cost of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and cost of equipment on operating leases acquired exceeding the collection of these receivables and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $2,953 million, an increase in trade and wholesale receivables of $481 million, a change in collateral on derivatives - net of $185 million, and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $37 million. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $2,160 million, resulting primarily from an increase in external borrowings of $1,798 million and an increase in borrowings from Deere & Company of $624 million, partially offset by dividends paid to Deere & Company of $240 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash decreased $28 million in the first nine months of 2021. During the first nine months of 2020, the cash provided by operating activities was used primarily to increase receivables and leases. Cash flows provided by operating activities, including intercompany cash flows, were $1,442 million in the first nine months of 2020. Cash used for investing activities totaled $858 million in the first nine months of 2020 primarily due to the cost of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and cost of equipment on 49 operating leases acquired exceeding the collection of these receivables and proceeds from sales of equipment on operating leases by $1,541 million and purchases of marketable securities exceeding proceeds from maturities and sales by $21 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade and wholesale receivables of $423 million and a change in collateral on derivatives - net of $330 million. Cash used for financing activities totaled $480 million, resulting primarily from a decrease in external borrowings of $1,677 million and dividends paid to Deere & Company of $260 million, partially offset by an increase in borrowings from Deere & Company of $1,468 million. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $89 million in the first nine months of 2020. Receivables and leases held by the financial services operations consist of retail notes originated in connection with retail sales of new and used equipment by dealers of John Deere products, retail notes from non-Deere equipment customers, trade receivables, wholesale notes, revolving charge accounts, credit enhanced international export financing generally involving John Deere products, sales-type and direct financing leases, and operating leases. Total receivables and leases increased $3,192 million during the first nine months of 2021 and increased $3,161 million in the past 12 months. Acquisition volumes of receivables (excluding trade and wholesale) and leases were 17 percent higher in the first nine months of 2021, compared with the same period last year, as volumes of financing leases and retail notes were higher, while volumes of operating leases and revolving charge accounts were slightly lower. The amount of total trade receivables and wholesale notes increased compared to November 1, 2020 and decreased compared to August 2, 2020. Total external interest-bearing debt of the financial services operations was $37,591 million at August 1, 2021, compared with $35,556 million at November 1, 2020 and $37,366 million at August 2, 2020. Total external borrowings have changed generally corresponding with the level of receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in payables owed to Deere & Company, and the change in investment from Deere & Company. The financial services operations’ ratio of interest-bearing debt, including intercompany debt, to stockholder’s equity was 7.6 to 1 at August 1, 2021, compared with 7.8 to 1 at November 1, 2020 and 7.9 to 1 at August 2, 2020. Capital Corporation has a revolving credit agreement to utilize bank conduit facilities to securitize retail notes (see Note 12). At August 1, 2021, this facility had a total capacity, or “financing limit,” of up to $2,000 million of secured financings at any time. After a two-year revolving period, unless the banks and Capital Corporation agree to renew, Capital Corporation would liquidate the secured borrowings over time as payments on the retail notes are collected. At August 1, 2021, $1,779 million of short-term securitization borrowings was outstanding under the agreement. In the first nine months of 2021, the financial services operations issued $2,801 million and retired $2,190 million of retail note securitization borrowings, which are presented in “Increase in total short-term borrowings.” In addition, during the first nine months of 2021, the financial services operations issued $5,877 million and retired $5,101 million of long-term borrowings, which were primarily medium-term notes. Subsequent Events On August 5, 2021, the Company acquired Bear Flag Robotics, Inc. (Bear Flag), based in Silicon Valley, to further accelerate Deere’s development and delivery of advanced technology. Bear Flag’s technology enables a tractor to work in a field autonomously. The total cash consideration was $250 million, which was financed from cash on hand, and will primarily be allocated to intangible assets and goodwill. Bear Flag will be part of the Company’s production and precision agriculture segment. On August 19, 2021, the Company and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. (Hitachi) entered into a Joint Venture Dissolution Agreement (Dissolution Agreement) pursuant to which the parties agreed to voluntarily terminate (Termination) the joint venture agreement dated May 16, 1988 between the Company and Hitachi. The joint venture agreement governs the terms of the joint venture between the Company and Hitachi for the manufacture and distribution of excavators in North, Central, and South America under the John Deere and Hitachi trademarks and tradenames. In connection with the Termination, the Company will purchase all of Hitachi’s shares in the relevant joint venture manufacturing entities located in Kernersville, North Carolina, U.S.; Langley, British Columbia, Canada; and Indaiatuba, Brazil. The Company will receive certain intellectual property rights relating to certain manufacturing processes under a perpetual license agreement. The initial cash consideration consists of $275 million for the shares and an intellectual property license. The cash consideration will be offset by cash acquired and the settlement of intercompany balances. The Company will also assume substantially all liabilities and debt of the joint venture entities. In addition to the foregoing payments, Hitachi will pay the book value of certain pre-existing inventory. Following the Termination, the Company will purchase John Deere-branded excavators, components, and service parts from Hitachi under a new supply agreement with a duration that ranges from 5 to 30 years. The Company will also continue to manufacture 10-50 metric ton John Deere-branded excavators. The Termination is expected to close during the first half of fiscal year 2022, subject to the receipt of certain required regulatory 50 approvals as well as certain other customary closing conditions. The Company expects to fund the initial consideration and the transaction expenses from cash on hand. On August 25, 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $1.05 per share payable November 8, 2021, to stockholders of record on September 30, 2021. The new quarterly rate represents an additional 15 cents per share over the previous level, an increase of approximately 17 percent. Supplemental Consolidating Information The supplemental consolidating data presented on the subsequent pages is presented for informational purposes. The equipment operations represents the enterprise without financial services. The equipment operations includes the Company’s production and precision agriculture operations, small agriculture and turf operations, construction and forestry operations, and other corporate assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses not reflected within financial services. Transactions between the “equipment operations” and “financial services” have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements. The equipment operations and financial services participate in different industries. The equipment operations primarily generate earnings and cash flows by manufacturing and distributing equipment, service parts, and technology solutions to dealers and end users. Financial services primarily finances sales and leases by dealers of new and used equipment that is largely manufactured by the Company. The financial services’ earnings and cash flows generally are finance income received from customer payments less interest expense, and depreciation on equipment subject to an operating lease. These two businesses are capitalized differently and have separate performance metrics. The supplemental consolidating data assists management in evaluating these two businesses.