 Item 1A: Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the first quarter of 2020, we identified the following additional risk factor: 

The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting, and will likely continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations . 

The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the U.S. and global economy; disrupted U.S. and global supply chains; lowered equity market valuations; created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets; contributed to a decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury securities; resulted in ratings downgrades, credit deterioration, and defaults in many industries; increased demands on capital and liquidity; and increased unemployment levels and decreased consumer confidence. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in temporary closures of many businesses and the institution of social distancing and sheltering in place requirements in many states and communities, including those in our footprint. The pandemic has caused us, and could continue to cause us, to recognize credit losses in our loan portfolios and increases in our allowance for credit losses. Furthermore, the pandemic could cause us to recognize impairment of our goodwill and our financial assets. Sustained adverse effects may also increase our cost of capital, prevent us from satisfying our minimum regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory requirements, or result in downgrades in our credit ratings. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations will 

84 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the continued effectiveness of our business continuity plan, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our customers, colleagues, counterparties and service providers, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

Governmental authorities have taken significant measures to provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets, and support economic growth. The success of these measures is unknown, and they may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the negative impact of the pandemic. Additionally, some measures, such as a suspension of consumer and commercial loan payments and the reduction in interest rates to near zero, may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the pandemic on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. 

The length of the pandemic and the effectiveness of the measures being put in place to address it are unknown. Until the effects of the pandemic subside, we expect continued draws on lines of credit, reduced revenues in our businesses, and increased customer defaults. Furthermore, the U.S. economy is likely to experience a recession as a result of the pandemic, and our business could be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged recession. To the extent the pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. 

