 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The following risk factor supplements the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section in Item 1A of our 2019 Form 10-K . 

Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (&#8220;COVID-19&#8221;) pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, BOKF&#8217;s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the continued effectiveness of our business continuity plan, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our employees, customers, clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants, and the effectiveness of actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. 

The spread of the COVID-19 virus and the resulting "stay at home" orders, travel restrictions, and closed schools and work places caused severe disruptions in the U.S. economy, which has in turn disrupted the business activities and operations of our customers, as well as our business and operations. The COVID-19 outbreak was first reported in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China in December 2019, and has resulted in millions of confirmed cases identified around the world, many in the U.S. As a result of the pandemic, many businesses were shut down or continue to be shut down, supply chains were interrupted, slowed, or rendered inoperable, and many individuals have become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work and/or travel due to health reasons or governmental restrictions. 

Specific to our operations, we face the following risks: 

&#8226; The pandemic, combined with pre-existing factors, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, inflation risks, and oil price volatility, could further destabilize the financial markets and markets in which the Company operates. The resulting impacts on consumers, including the sudden increase in the unemployment rate, could cause changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing needs, and saving habits, which will likely affect the demand for loans and other products or services the Company offers, as well as the creditworthiness of potential and current borrowers. 

&#8226; Governmental mandates forced shutdowns of many of our customers' and vendors' facilities. While some have reopened, others may extend for indefinite periods. This may cause customers, third-party service providers, and counterparties to be unable to meet existing payment or other obligations to the Company. 

&#8226; The COVID-19 virus may have an adverse effect on customer deposits, the ability of our borrowers to satisfy their obligations, the demand for our loans or other products and services, or on financial markets, real estate markets, or economic growth, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 

&#8226; The Federal Reserve reduced the target federal funds rate to 0.00% to 0.25% on March 15, 2020 and announced a $700 billion quantitative easing program in response to the economic downturn caused by COVID-19. These reductions, especially if prolonged, could adversely affect our net interest income and margins, the value of mortgage servicing rights, and our profitability. 

&#8226; Widespread outbreaks of the COVID-19 virus in our primary geographies could adversely affect our workforce resulting in serious health issues and absenteeism. Social distancing measures enacted for working employees such as working from home, working in different locations, and working different shifts could further disrupt the workforce and normal internal control environment. This could lead to the inability to adequately meet customer needs, maintain adequate financial controls and cybersecurity controls, and meet regulatory deadlines. 

&#8226; The determination of the appropriate level of allowance for credit losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current expected credit losses. The COVID-19 pandemic and the 

- 108 - 

unprecedented governmental response could make these subjective judgments even more difficult. The economic impact of the pandemic and government responses may have an adverse effect on current and forward prices for oil and natural gas, which could result in significant credit losses. The value of real estate and other collateral securing loans may also be adversely affected. 

As a result of the preceding and other risks, if the COVID-19 virus continues to spread and the response to contain the pandemic is unsuccessful, the Company could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. These adverse impacts could lead to a material impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets assigned to our reporting units. 

