Company Information 

General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state 
financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 
and operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding 
company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The 
Company provides a full range of financial services, including 
lending and depository services, cash management, capital 
markets, and trust and investment management services. It also 
engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM processing, 
mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. 

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National 

Association, is engaged in the general banking business, 
principally in domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, 
with $374 billion in deposits at December 31, 2019, provides a 
wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, 
institutional organizations, governmental entities and other 
financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services 
are principally offered to customers within the Company’s 
domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations 
and to large national customers operating in specific industries 
targeted by the Company. Lending services include traditional 
credit products as well as credit card services, lease financing 
and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, agricultural 
finance and other products. Depository services include checking 
accounts, savings accounts and time certificate contracts. 
Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury management 
and receivable lock-box collection are provided to corporate 
customers. U.S. Bancorp’s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a 
full range of asset management and fiduciary services for 
individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and 
charitable organizations. 

Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment 
and insurance products to the Company’s customers principally 
within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a 
broad range of mutual and other funds. 

Banking and investment services are provided through a 
network of 2,795 banking offices principally operating in the 
Midwest and West regions of the United States, through on-line 
services and over mobile devices. The Company operates a 
network of 4,459 ATMs and provides 24-hour, seven day a week 
telephone customer service. Mortgage banking services are 
provided through banking offices and loan production offices 
throughout the Company’s domestic markets. Lending products 
may be originated through banking offices, indirect 
correspondents, brokers or other lending sources. The Company 
is also one of the largest providers of corporate and purchasing 
card services and corporate trust services in the United States. A 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), provides 
domestic merchant processing services directly to merchants 
and through a network of banking affiliations. Wholly-owned 
subsidiaries, and affiliates of Elavon, provide similar merchant 
services in Canada, Mexico and segments of Europe. The 

146 

Company also provides corporate trust and fund administration 
services in Europe. These foreign operations are not significant to 
the Company. 

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2019, 

U.S. Bancorp employed 69,651 people. 

Risk Factors An investment in the Company involves risk, 
including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall 
substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are risk factors 
that could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and 
condition and the value of, and return on, an investment in the 
Company. 

Economic and Market Conditions Risk 

Deterioration in business and economic conditions could 
adversely affect the Company’s lending business and the 
value of loans and debt securities it holds The Company’s 
business activities and earnings are affected by general business 
conditions in the United States and abroad, including factors 
such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term 
interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under­
employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer 
spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, 
liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of 
capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the 
financial markets, and the strength of the domestic and global 
economies in which the Company operates. Changes in any of 
these conditions can adversely affect the Company’s consumer 
and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, its level of 
charge-offs and provision for credit losses, its capital levels and 
liquidity, and its results of operations. 

Given the high percentage of the Company’s assets 

represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of 
lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions are 
likely to have a negative impact on the Company’s business and 
results of operations. A deterioration in economic conditions 
could adversely impact new loan origination activity and existing 
loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and the 
ability of customers to meet obligations under the loans. The 
value to the Company of other assets such as investment 
securities, most of which are debt securities or other financial 
instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively 
impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from 
a weakening of the economy. 

Any deterioration in global economic conditions could damage 

the domestic economy or negatively impact the Company’s 
borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect 
exposure to these regions. Such global disruptions can 
undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available 
credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have 
significant adverse effects on the Company’s businesses, results 

of operations, financial condition and liquidity, even if the 
Company’s direct exposure to the affected region is limited. A 
withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, as 
well as other global political trends toward nationalism and 
isolationism, could increase the probability of a deterioration in 
global economic conditions. 

Any further changes to economic policies could erode 

consumer confidence levels, cause adverse changes in payment 
patterns, lead to increases in delinquencies and default rates in 
certain industries or regions, or have other negative market or 
customer impacts. Such developments could increase the 
Company’s loan charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Any 
future economic deterioration that affects household or corporate 
incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or 
fee-based products and services. 

Changes in United States trade policies, including the 
imposition of tariffs and retaliatory tariffs, may adversely 
impact the Company’s business, financial condition and 
results of operations There has been increased discussion and 
activity regarding potential and proposed changes to United 
States trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including 
trade policies and tariffs affecting China, the European Union, 
Canada and Mexico and retaliatory tariffs by such countries. 
Tariffs and retaliatory tariffs have been imposed, and additional 
tariffs and retaliation tariffs have been proposed. Such tariffs, 
retaliatory tariffs or other trade restrictions on products and 
materials that the Company’s customers import or export could 
cause the prices of its customers’ products to increase, which 
could reduce demand for such products, or reduce the 
Company’s customers’ margins, and adversely impact their 
revenues, financial results and ability to service debt. This in turn, 
could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and 
results of operations. In addition, to the extent changes in the 
political environment have a negative impact on the Company or 
on the markets in which it does business, or otherwise result in 
sustained deterioration in economic conditions, results of 
operations and financial condition could be materially and 
adversely impacted in the future. Additionally, if prices of 
consumer goods increase materially as a result of tariffs, the 
ability of individual households to service debt may be negatively 
impacted. In total, these outcomes could adversely affect the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. It 
remains unclear what the United States government or foreign 
governments will do with respect to tariffs already imposed, 
additional tariffs that may be imposed, or international trade 
agreements and policies, and this uncertainty further complicates 
business planning for the Company’s customers in certain 
industries. 

Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net 
interest income The Company’s earnings are dependent to a 
large degree on net interest income, which is the difference 
between interest income from loans and investments and interest 
expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is 
significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are 
affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and 

monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of 
various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the 
Company’s financial position is affected by fluctuations in interest 
rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds 
away from financial institutions into direct investments. Direct 
investments, such as United States government and corporate 
securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual funds), 
generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions, 
because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and 
reserve requirements. Some foreign central banks have moved to 
a negative interest rate environment, which has exerted 
downward pressure on the profitability of banks in those regions. 
The Company’s financial condition could be damaged if this 
interest rate trend extends to the United States. 

Changes in, or the discontinuance of, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as an interest rate 
benchmark could adversely affect the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations In 
July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, 
which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop 
compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR 
after 2021. It is likely that banks will cease submitting LIBOR rates 
after 2021 and possibly sooner. It is not possible to know 
whether LIBOR will continue to be viewed as an acceptable 
market benchmark, what rate or rates may become accepted 
alternatives to LIBOR, or what the effect of any such changes in 
views or alternatives may have on the financial markets for 
LIBOR-linked financial instruments. 

In April 2018, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 

commenced publication of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate 
(“SOFR”), which has been recommended as an alternative to 
United States dollar LIBOR by the Alternative Reference Rates 
Committee, a group of market and official sector participants. 
However, uncertainty remains as to the transition process and 
acceptance of SOFR as the primary alternative to LIBOR. 

The market transition from LIBOR to SOFR or a different 
alternative reference rate is complex and could have a range of 
adverse impacts on the Company. In particular, any such 
transition or reform could, among other things, (i) adversely 
impact the value of, return on and trading for the Company’s 
financial assets or liabilities that are linked to LIBOR, including its 
securities, loans and derivatives; (ii) require renegotiations of 
outstanding financial assets and liabilities; (iii) result in additional 
inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the 
Company’s preparation and readiness for the LIBOR transition; 
(iv) increase the risk of disputes or litigation and/or increase 
expenses related to the transition, including with respect to any 
actions resulting from the Company’s interpretation and 
execution of its roles and responsibilities in corporate trust 
transactions; (v) adversely impact the Company’s reputation as it 
works with customers to transition loans and financial instruments 
from LIBOR; (vi) require successful system and analytics 
development and operationalization to transition the Company’s 
systems, loan portfolio and risk management processes away 
from LIBOR, which will require the Company to rely on the 

147 

readiness of third-party vendors; and (vii) cause significant 
disruption to financial markets that are relevant to the Company’s 
business segments. In addition, there can be no assurance that 
actions taken by the Company and third parties to address these 
risks and otherwise prepare for the transition from LIBOR to 
alternative interest rate benchmarks will be successful. 

Operations and Business Risk 
A breach in the security of the Company’s systems, or the 
systems of certain third parties, could disrupt the 
Company’s businesses, result in the disclosure of 
confidential information, damage its reputation and create 
significant financial and legal exposure The Company 
experiences numerous attacks on its computer systems, 
software, networks and other technology assets daily, and the 
number of attacks is increasing. Although the Company devotes 
significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its 
systems and processes that are designed to protect the security 
of the Company’s computer systems, software, networks and 
other technology assets, as well as its intellectual property, and to 
protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information 
belonging to the Company and its customers, the Company’s 
security measures may not be effective. Adversaries continue to 
develop more sophisticated cyber attacks that could impact the 
Company. Many financial services institutions, retailers and other 
companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches 
in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which 
have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to 
obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy 
data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often 
through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber 
attacks and other means. 

Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the 
overall functioning of the financial system could also adversely 
affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of the Company’s 
businesses. The increasing consolidation, interdependence and 
complexity of financial entities and technology systems means 
that a technology failure, cyber attack, or other information or 
security breach that significantly degrades, deletes or 
compromises the systems or data of one or more financial 
entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other 
market participants, including the Company. This consolidation, 
interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of operational 
failure, on both an entity-specific and an industry-wide basis. 

Third parties that facilitate the Company’s business activities, 

including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment and ATM 
networks, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services 
or technology solutions for the Company’s operations, could also 
be sources of operational and security risks to the Company, 
including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, 
misconduct by their employees or cyber attacks that could affect 
their ability to deliver a product or service to the Company or 
result in lost or compromised information of the Company or its 
customers. The Company’s ability to implement back-up systems 

or other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is limited. 
Furthermore, an attack on or failure of a third-party system may 
not be revealed to the Company in a timely manner, which could 
compromise the Company’s ability to respond effectively. Some 
of these third parties may engage vendors of their own as they 
provide services or technology solutions for the Company’s 
operations, which introduces the risk that these “fourth parties” 
could be the source of operational and security failures. 

In addition, during the past several years a number of retailers 

and hospitality companies have disclosed substantial cyber 
security breaches affecting debit and credit card accounts of their 
customers, some of whom were the Company’s cardholders. 
When that happens, holders of Company cards who have made 
purchases from the business whose systems were breached 
might experience fraud on their card accounts. The Company 
might suffer losses associated with reimbursing its customers for 
such fraudulent transactions on the customers’ card accounts, as 
well as for other costs related to data security compromise 
events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised 
card accounts. These attacks involving Company cards are likely 
to continue and could, individually or in the aggregate, have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or 
results of operations. 

It is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate 
or to implement effective preventive measures against all security 
breaches of these types, because the techniques used change 
frequently, generally increase in sophistication, often are not 
recognized until launched, sometimes go undetected even when 
successful, and originate from a wide variety of sources, including 
organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, hostile foreign 
governments and other external parties. Those parties may also 
attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other 
users of the Company’s systems to disclose sensitive information 
to gain access to the Company’s data or that of its customers or 
clients, such as through “phishing” schemes. Other types of 
attacks may include computer viruses, malicious or destructive 
code, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware or ransom demands 
to not expose security vulnerabilities in the Company’s systems 
or the systems of third parties. These risks may increase in the 
future as the Company continues to increase its mobile and 
internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage 
of web-based products and applications. In addition, the 
Company’s customers often use their own devices, such as 
computers, smart phones and tablet computers, to make 
payments and manage their accounts. The Company has limited 
ability to assure the safety and security of its customers’ 
transactions with the Company to the extent they are using their 
own devices, which could be subject to similar threats. 

In the event that the Company’s security systems are 

penetrated or circumvented, or an authorized user intentionally or 
unintentionally removes, loses or destroys operations data, 
serious negative consequences for the Company can follow, 
including significant disruption of the Company’s operations, 
misappropriation of confidential information of the Company or 
that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the 

148 

Company or those of its customers and counterparties. These 
consequences could result in violations of applicable privacy and 
other laws; financial loss to the Company or to its customers; loss 
of confidence in the Company’s security measures; customer 
dissatisfaction; significant litigation exposure; regulatory fines, 
penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other compensatory 
costs; additional compliance costs; and harm to the Company’s 
reputation, all of which could adversely affect the Company. 

The Company relies on its employees, systems and third 
parties to conduct its business, and certain failures by 
systems or misconduct by employees or third parties 
could adversely affect its operations The Company operates 
in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the 
ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of 
transactions. The Company’s business, financial, accounting, 
data processing, and other operating systems and facilities may 
stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a 
result of a number of factors, including events that are out of its 
control. In addition to the risks posed by information security 
breaches, as discussed above, such systems could be 
compromised because of spikes in transaction volume, electrical 
or telecommunications outages, degradation or loss of internet or 
website availability, natural disasters, political or social unrest, and 
terrorist acts. The Company’s business operations may be 
adversely affected by significant disruption to the operating 
systems that support its businesses and customers. If backup 
systems are used during outages, they might not process data as 
quickly as do the primary systems, resulting in the potential of 
some data not being backed up. 

The Company could also incur losses resulting from the risk of 

fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, 
unauthorized access to its computer systems, the execution of 
unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to 
transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal 
control system and compliance requirements, and business 
continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes 
the potential legal actions, fines or civil money penalties that could 
arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of 
noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse 
business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition 
due to potential negative publicity. 

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s 
business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has 
selected these third parties carefully, it does not control their 
actions. Any problems caused by third-party service providers, 
including as a result of not providing the Company their services 
for any reason or performing their services poorly, could 
adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and 
services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct 
its business. Replacing third-party service providers could also 
entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of third-
party service providers to handle current or higher volumes of use 
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products 
and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. 

Technological or financial difficulties of a third-party service 
provider could adversely affect the Company’s businesses to the 
extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation 
of services provided by that party. 

Operational risks for large institutions such as the Company 
have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the 
proliferation of new technologies, the use of internet services and 
telecommunications technologies to conduct financial 
transactions, the increased number and complexity of 
transactions being processed, and the increased sophistication 
and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and 
other external parties. In the event of a breakdown in the internal 
control system, improper operation of systems or improper 
employee or third-party actions, the Company could suffer 
financial loss, face legal or regulatory action and suffer damage to 
its reputation. 

The Company could face significant legal and reputational 
harm if it fails to safeguard personal information The 
Company is subject to complex and evolving laws and 
regulations, both inside and outside of the United States, 
governing the privacy and protection of personal information of 
individuals. The protected individuals can include the Company’s 
customers, its employees, and the employees of the Company’s 
suppliers, counterparties and other third parties. Ensuring that the 
Company’s collection, use, transfer and storage of personal 
information comply with applicable laws and regulations in 
relevant jurisdictions can increase operating costs, impact the 
development of new products or services, and reduce 
operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse of the personal 
information of customers, employees or others by the Company 
or a third party affiliated with the Company could expose the 
Company to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other 
sanctions. 

Additional risks could arise if the Company or third parties do 

not provide adequate disclosure or transparency to the 
Company’s customers about the personal information collected 
from them and its use; any failure to receive, document, and 
honor the privacy preferences expressed by the Company’s 
customers; any failure to protect personal information from 
unauthorized disclosure; or any failure to maintain proper training 
on privacy practices for all employees or third parties who have 
access to personal data. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of 
the Company’s measures to safeguard personal information and 
abide by privacy preferences, or even the perception that those 
measures are inadequate, could cause the Company to lose 
existing or potential customers and thereby reduce its revenues. 
In addition, any failure or perceived failure by the Company to 
comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and 
regulations could result in requirements to modify or cease 
certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory 
fines, penalties, or other sanctions. Refer to “Supervision and 
Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
additional information regarding data privacy laws and 
regulations. Any of these outcomes could damage the 

149 

Company’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its 
business. 

services company with a high industry profile, is inherently 
exposed to this risk. 

The Company could lose market share and experience 
increased costs if it does not effectively develop and 
implement new technology The financial services industry is 
continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent 
introductions of new technology-driven products and services, 
including innovative ways that customers can make payments or 
manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile 
payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. The Company’s 
continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to address 
customer needs by using technology to provide products and 
services that customers want to adopt, and create additional 
efficiencies in the Company’s operations. When launching a new 
product or service or introducing a new platform for the delivery 
of products and services, the Company might not identify or fully 
appreciate new operational risks arising from those innovations or 
might fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate those risks. 
Developing and deploying new technology-driven products and 
services can also involve costs that the Company may not 
recover and divert resources away from other product 
development efforts. The Company may not be able to effectively 
develop and implement profitable new technology-driven 
products and services or be successful in marketing these 
products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully 
keep pace with technological change affecting the financial 
services industry could harm the Company’s competitive position 
and negatively affect its revenue and profit. 

Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely 
impact its business and financial results Reputation risk, or 
the risk to the Company’s business, earnings and capital from 
negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s business. 
Negative public opinion about the financial services industry 
generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the 
Company’s ability to keep and attract customers, investors, and 
employees and could expose the Company to litigation and 
regulatory action. Negative public opinion can result from the 
Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, 
including lending practices, cybersecurity breaches, failures to 
safeguard personal information, discriminating or harassing 
behavior of employees toward other employees or customers, 
mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, compensation 
practices, sales practices, environmental, social, and governance 
practices and disclosures, regulatory compliance, mergers and 
acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and 
community organizations in response to that conduct. In addition, 
social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting 
financial services firms with public criticism for their relationships 
with clients engaged in industries they perceive to be harmful to 
communities or the environment. Such criticism directed at the 
Company could generate dissatisfaction among its customers, 
investors, and employees. Although the Company takes steps to 
minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other 
constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified financial 

The Company’s business and financial performance could 
be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by natural 
disasters, climate change, pandemics, terrorist activities 
or international hostilities Neither the occurrence nor the 
potential impact of natural disasters, climate change, pandemics, 
terrorist activities or international hostilities can be predicted. 
However, these occurrences could impact the Company directly 
(for example, by interrupting the Company’s systems, which 
could prevent the Company from obtaining deposits, originating 
loans and processing and controlling its flow of business; causing 
significant damage to the Company’s facilities; or otherwise 
preventing the Company from conducting business in the 
ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their impact on the 
Company’s borrowers, depositors, other customers, vendors or 
other counterparties (for example, by damaging properties 
pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans or impairing the 
ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans). The Company 
could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that natural 
disasters, climate change, pandemics, terrorist activities or 
international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy 
in general or in any particular region. These types of impacts 
could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, 
bankruptcies or defaults that could result in the Company 
experiencing higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-
offs and provisions for credit losses. 

The Company’s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences 

of these occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of the 
Company’s resiliency planning, and the Company’s ability, if any, 
to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The 
adverse impact of natural disasters, climate change, pandemics, 
terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be 
increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on 
the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the 
part of other organizations and businesses that the Company 
transacts with, particularly those that it depends upon, but has no 
control over. Additionally, the force and frequency of natural 
disasters are increasing as the climate changes. 

The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be 
effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company The 
Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk 
and loss. The Company has established processes and 
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and 
analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity 
risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, 
strategic risk, reputation risk, and operational risk related to its 
employees, systems and vendors, among others. However, as 
with any risk management framework, there are inherent 
limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there 
may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not 
appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company 
relies on quantitative models to measure certain risks and to 
estimate certain financial values, and these models could fail to 
predict future events or exposures accurately. The Company 

150 

must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management 
among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with 
third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s 
risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company 
could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and 
suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or 
results of operations. 

Regulatory and Legal Risk 
The Company is subject to extensive and evolving 
government regulation and supervision, which can 
increase the cost of doing business, limit the Company’s 
ability to make investments and generate revenue, and 
lead to costly enforcement actions Banking regulations are 
primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, the federal 
Deposit Insurance Fund, and the United States financial system 
as a whole, and not the Company’s debt holders or 
shareholders. These regulations, and the Company’s inability to 
act in certain instances without receiving prior regulatory 
approval, affect the Company’s lending practices, capital 
structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to 
repurchase common stock, and ability to pursue strategic 
acquisitions, among other activities. 

Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of 

the supervision to which the Company is subject have increased 
in response to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, as well as 
other factors such as technological and market changes. 
Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the 
banking and financial services sector. Although the regulatory 
environment of the post financial crisis framework has been, and 
is being, rebalanced in some aspects, the Company expects that 
its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and 
supervision and that the level of scrutiny and the enforcement 
environment may fluctuate over time, based on numerous 
factors, including changes in the United States presidential 
administration or one or both houses of Congress and public 
sentiment regarding financial institutions (which can be influenced 
by scandals and other incidents that involve participants in the 
industry). In addition, although an overall reduction in the 
regulation of the financial services sector could result in some 
operational and cost benefits, any new regulations or 
modifications to existing regulations and supervisory expectations 
have and may in the future necessitate changes to the 
Company’s existing regulatory compliance and risk management 
infrastructure and could result in increased competition. 

Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or their 

interpretation or implementation, and/or regulatory practices, 
requirements or expectations, could affect the Company in 
substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, the Guidelines 
for Heightened Standards of the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Enhanced Prudential Supervision Rules of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal 
Reserve”) have required and will continue to require significant 
oversight by the Company’s Board of Directors and focus by the 
Company’s management on governance and risk-management 

activities. Moreover, general regulatory practices, such as longer 
time frames to obtain regulatory approvals for acquisitions and 
other activities (and the resultant impact on businesses the 
Company may seek to acquire), could affect the attractiveness of 
certain acquisitions or the introduction of new products or 
services, or otherwise affect the Company’s ability to make 
acquisitions or introduce new products and services. 

The financial services industry continues to face scrutiny from 

bank supervisors in the examination process and stringent 
enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels, 
particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices, student 
lending practices, sales practices and related incentive 
compensation programs, and other consumer compliance 
matters, as well as compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti­
money laundering (“BSA/AML”) requirements and sanctions 
compliance requirements as administered by the Office of Foreign 
Assets Control. This heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results 
of an investigation or examination, may lead to additional 
regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. There is no 
assurance that those actions will not result in regulatory 
settlements or other enforcement actions against the Company. 
Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or 
regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping 
investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and 
state agencies and officials in the United States or, in some 
instances, regulators and other governmental officials in foreign 
jurisdictions. 

Federal law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal 

banking regulators and law enforcement agencies. This 
enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to 
assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or 
restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to 
initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and 
institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be 
initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or 
unsound practices. Foreign supervisors also have increased 
regulatory scrutiny and enforcement in areas related to consumer 
compliance, money laundering, and information technology 
systems and controls, among others. Any future enforcement 
action could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 
In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in 
settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of 
other terms of regulatory settlements are likely to remain elevated 
in the near term. In some cases, governmental authorities have 
required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms, including 
admissions of wrongdoing and the imposition of monitors, as part 
of such settlements, which could have significant consequences 
for a financial institution, including loss of customers, reputational 
harm, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and 
the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain 
products for a period of time. 

Non-compliance with sanctions laws and/or AML laws or 
failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML compliance program 
can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational 
damage. In addition, federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness 

151 

of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining 
whether to approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, 
restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a 
number of significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-
dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to 
sanctions laws and BSA/AML laws and some have resulted in 
substantial penalties, including against the Company and U.S. 
Bank National Association in 2018. 

Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in 

risk management practices also may be incorporated into the 
Company’s confidential supervisory ratings. A downgrade in 
these ratings, or these or other regulatory actions and 
settlements, could limit the Company’s ability to conduct 
expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or 
additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other 
business activities. 

Compliance with new regulations and supervisory initiatives have 

increased the Company’s costs over time and may continue to do 
so. In addition, regulatory changes may reduce the Company’s 
revenues, limit the types of financial services and products it may 
offer, alter the investments it makes, affect the manner in which it 
operates its businesses, increase its litigation and regulatory costs 
should it fail to appropriately comply with new or modified laws and 
regulatory requirements, and increase the ability of non-banks to 
offer competing financial services and products. 

Stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity have 
been adopted by United States banking regulators that may 
limit the Company’s ability to return earnings to 
shareholders or operate or invest in its business United 
States banking regulators have adopted stringent capital- and 
liquidity-related standards applicable to larger banking 
organizations, including the Company. The rules require banks to 
hold more and higher quality capital as well as sufficient 
unencumbered liquid assets to meet certain stress scenarios 
defined by regulation. In November 2019, the federal banking 
regulators adopted two final rules (the “Tailoring Rules”) that 
revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory 
capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking 
organizations, including the Company and U.S. Bank National 
Association, and that tailored the application of the Federal 
Reserve’s enhanced prudential standards to large banking 
organizations. Although the Tailoring Rules and other recent 
changes to capital- and liquidity-related rules generally have 
simplified the regulatory framework applicable to the Company, 
future changes to the implementation of these rules including the 
common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, or additional 
capital- and liquidity-related rules, could require the Company to 
take further steps to increase its capital, increase its investment 
security holdings, divest assets or operations, or otherwise change 
aspects of its capital and/or liquidity measures, including in ways 
that may be dilutive to shareholders or could limit the Company’s 
ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase its common 
stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to its customers. 
Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual 

Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the 
Company’s capital and liquidity requirements. 

Additional requirements may be imposed in the future. In 
December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized a package of 
revisions to the Basel III framework. The changes are meant to 
improve the calculation of risk-weighted assets and the 
comparability of capital ratios. Federal banking regulators are 
expected to undertake rule-makings in future years to implement 
these revisions in the United States. In addition, in April 2018 the 
Federal Reserve proposed stress capital buffer requirements that 
would replace the capital conservation buffer with a stress capital 
buffer and introduce a stress leverage buffer. Refer to “Supervision 
and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
additional information regarding the proposed stress buffer 
requirements. The ultimate impact of revisions to the Basel III–based 
framework in the United States and the stress buffer requirements 
on the Company’s capital and liquidity will depend on the final rule-
makings and the implementation process thereafter. 

The Company is subject to significant financial and 
reputation risks from potential legal liability and 
governmental actions The Company faces significant legal 
risks in its businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of 
damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental 
proceedings against it and other financial institutions are 
substantial. Customers, clients and other counterparties are 
making claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of 
damages, while banking regulators and certain other 
governmental authorities have focused on enforcement. As a 
participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that the 
Company will continue to experience a high level of litigation 
related to its businesses and operations in the future. 

In addition, governmental authorities have, at times, sought 

criminal penalties against companies in the financial services 
sector for violations, and, at times, have required an admission of 
wrongdoing from financial institutions in connection with resolving 
such matters. Criminal convictions or admissions of wrongdoing 
in a settlement with the government can lead to greater exposure 
in civil litigation and reputational harm. 

Substantial legal liability or significant governmental action 

against the Company could materially impact its financial 
condition and results of operations or cause significant 
reputational harm to the Company, which in turn could adversely 
impact its business prospects. Also, the resolution of a litigation 
or regulatory matter could result in additional accruals or exceed 
established accruals for a particular period, which could materially 
impact the Company’s results from operations for that period. 

The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage 
loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties 
When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to 
various parties, including GSEs, it is required to make customary 
representations and warranties to the purchaser about the 
mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. 
The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 

152 

be subject to indemnification claims in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 
within a certain period. Contracts for residential mortgage loan 
sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 
penalties that could be applied if the Company does not 
adequately respond to repurchase requests. If economic 
conditions and the housing market deteriorate or the GSEs 
increase their claims for breached representations and 
warranties, the Company could have increased repurchase 
obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring 
material increases to its repurchase reserve. 

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk 
Heightened credit risk could require the Company to 
increase its provision for credit losses, which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of 
operations and financial condition When the Company lends 
money, or commits to lend money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk 
of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the 
largest lenders in the United States, the credit performance of the 
Company’s loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results 
and condition. If the current economic environment were to 
deteriorate, the Company’s customers may have difficulty in 
repaying their loans or other obligations, which could result in a 
higher level of credit losses and higher provisions for credit 
losses. The Company reserves for credit losses by establishing 
an allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan 
defaults and nonperformance. The amount of the Company’s 
allowance for loan losses is based on its historical loss experience 
as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan 
portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, 
current economic conditions and geographic concentrations 
within the portfolio. Unexpected stress on the United States 
economy or the local economies in which the Company does 
business may result in, among other things, unexpected 
deterioration in credit quality of the loan portfolio, or in the value 
of collateral securing those loans. 

In addition, the process the Company uses to estimate losses 

inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and 
complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions 
and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of its 
borrowers to repay their loans. These economic predictions and 
their impact may not be capable of accurate estimation, which 
may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. As with any 
such assessments, the Company may fail to identify the proper 
factors or to accurately estimate the impacts of the factors that 
the Company does identify. The Company also makes loans to 
borrowers where it does not have or service the loan with the first 
lien on the property securing its loan. For loans in a junior lien 
position, the Company may not have access to information on 
the position or performance of the first lien when it is held and 
serviced by a third party, which may adversely affect the 
accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of these types. Increases 
in the Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate 
to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses 

could materially and adversely affect its financial results. In 
addition, the Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of 
its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it 
uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become 
less predictive of future behaviors. 

A concentration of credit and market risk in the Company’s 
loan portfolio could increase the potential for significant 
losses The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience 
higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by 
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 
borrower or collateral. For example, the Company’s credit risk 
and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in similar 
activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic 
or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related 
to climate change. Deterioration in economic conditions or real 
estate values in states or regions where the Company has 
relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real 
estate could result in higher credit costs. In particular, 
deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic 
conditions in California could result in significantly higher credit 
losses to the Company. 

Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the 
Company’s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held 
for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue 
volatile from quarter to quarter, which can reduce its 
earnings The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, which is the 
right to service a mortgage loan—collect principal, interest and 
escrow amounts—for a fee. The Company initially carries its 
MSRs using a fair value measurement of the present value of the 
estimated future net servicing income, which includes 
assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. 
Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions 
and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, prepayments tend to 
increase as borrowers refinance, and the fair value of MSRs can 
decrease, which in turn reduces the Company’s earnings. 
Further, it is possible that, because of economic conditions and/ 
or a weak or deteriorating housing market, even when interest 
rates fall or remain low, mortgage originations may fall or any 
increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset 
the decrease in the MSRs’ value caused by the lower rates. 

A decline in the soundness of other financial institutions 
could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations 
The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement 
transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and 
commercial soundness of other domestic or foreign financial 
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a 
result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The 
Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the 
Company routinely executes and settles transactions with 
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers 
and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and 
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults 
by, or even rumors or questions about, the soundness of one or 
more financial services institutions, or the financial services 

153 

industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the 
Company or by other institutions and impact the Company’s 
predominately United States–based businesses or the less 
significant merchant processing, corporate trust and fund 
administration services businesses it operates in foreign 
countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to 
credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In 
addition, the Company’s credit risk may be further increased 
when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon 
or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of 
the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is no 
assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect the 
Company’s results of operations. 

Change in residual value of leased assets may have an 
adverse impact on the Company’s financial results The 
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk 
that the residual value of the property under lease will be less 
than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in 
the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on 
the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the 
realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual 
values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s 
control, including supply and demand for the assets, condition of 
the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic 
factors. 

Liquidity Risk 
If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, its 
business could suffer The Company’s liquidity is essential for 
the operation of its business. Market conditions, unforeseen 
outflows of funds or other events could negatively affect the 
Company’s level or cost of funding, affecting its ongoing ability to 
accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet 
contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business 
transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If the 
Company’s access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, 
such as customer deposits, is reduced, the Company might need 
to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of 
limited availability. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged 
changes in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the 
Company’s business. 

Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company’s 
funding costs The Company relies on bank deposits to be a 
low-cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes 
with banks and other financial services companies for deposits, 
including those that offer on-line channels. If the Company’s 
competitors raise the interest rates they pay on deposits, the 
Company’s funding costs may increase, either because the 
Company raises the interest rates it pays on deposits to avoid 
losing deposits to competitors or because the Company loses 
deposits to competitors and must rely on more expensive 
sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the Company’s 
net interest margin and net interest income. Checking and 
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits 

may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, 
such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return 
tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and 
into other investments, the Company may lose a relatively 
low-cost source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding 
costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income. 

A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could have a 
material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding costs and 
access to capital markets The Company’s credit ratings are 
important to its liquidity. A reduction in one or more of the 
Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, 
increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital 
markets. Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of 
investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or 
otherwise, to do business or lend to the Company, thereby 
adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. The 
Company’s credit ratings and credit rating agencies’ outlooks are 
subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, which consider 
a number of factors, including the Company’s own financial 
strength, performance, prospects and operations, as well as 
factors not within the control of the Company, including 
conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. There 
can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current 
ratings and outlooks. 

The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for 
its liquidity needs, and the payment of those dividends is 
limited by laws and regulations The Company is a separate 
and distinct legal entity from U.S. Bank National Association and 
its non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives a significant 
portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These 
dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on 
the Company’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. 
Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of 
dividends that U.S. Bank National Association and certain of its 
non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without 
regulatory approval. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a 
distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s 
creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company’s claims 
as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized. 

Competitive and Strategic Risk 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, and 
competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect 
the Company’s financial results The Company operates in a 
highly competitive industry that could become even more 
competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological 
changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may 
increase in connection with current economic and market 
conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-
capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are 
capable of offering a wider array of financial products and 
services at more competitive prices. The Company competes 
with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, 

154 

mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking 
companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card 
companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory 
companies. Legislative or regulatory changes also could lead to 
increased competition in the financial services sector. For 
example, the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules have 
reduced the regulatory burden of large bank holding companies, 
including the Company and some of its competitors, and raised 
the asset thresholds at which more onerous requirements apply, 
which could cause certain large bank holding companies with 
less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, which were 
previously subject to more stringent enhanced prudential 
standards, to become more competitive or to pursue expansion 
more aggressively. 

In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and 
made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services, 
such as loans and payment services, that traditionally were 
banking products, and made it possible for technology 
companies to compete with financial institutions in providing 
electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone–based financial 
solutions. Competition with non-banks, including technology 
companies, to provide financial products and services is 
intensifying. In particular, the activity of financial technology 
companies (“fintechs”) has grown significantly over recent years 
and is expected to continue to grow. Fintechs have and may 
continue to offer bank or bank-like products. For example, a 
number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan 
charters. In addition, other fintechs have partnered with existing 
banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. 
Many of these companies, including the Company’s competitors, 
have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost 
structures, in part due to lack of physical structures. Also, the 
potential need to adapt to industry changes in information 
technology systems, on which the Company and financial 
services industry are highly dependent, could present operational 
issues and require capital spending. The Company’s ability to 
compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, 
among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic plans 
and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term 
customer relationships based on quality service, competitive 
prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and 
industry and general economic trends. A failure to compete 
effectively could contribute to downward price pressure on the 
Company’s products or services or a loss of market share. 

The Company may need to lower prices on existing 
products and services and develop and introduce new 
products and services to maintain market share The 
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its 
products and services to evolving industry standards. There is 
increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower 
prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company’s net interest 
margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In 
addition, the adoption of new technologies or further 
developments in current technologies require the Company to 
make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing 

products and services. Also, these and other capital investments 
in the Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth 
in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The 
Company might not be successful in developing or introducing 
new products and services, adapting to changing customer 
preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market 
acceptance of its products and services, or sufficiently developing 
and maintaining loyal customer relationships. 

The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to attract 
and retain skilled employees The Company’s success 
depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key 
employees. Competition for the best people in most activities the 
Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be 
able to hire the best people or to keep them. Recent strong 
scrutiny of compensation practices has resulted in, and may 
continue to result in, additional regulation and legislation in this 
area. As a result, the Company may not be able to retain key 
employees by providing adequate compensation. In addition, 
there is the potential for changes in immigration policies in 
multiple jurisdictions, and the Company could be adversely 
affected to the extent that immigration policies or work 
authorization programs were to unduly restrict or otherwise make 
it more difficult for qualified employees to work in, or transfer 
among, jurisdictions in which the Company has operations or 
conducts its business. There is no assurance that these 
developments will not cause increased turnover or impede the 
Company’s ability to retain and attract the highest caliber 
employees. 

The Company may not be able to complete future 
acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not produce 
revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within 
timeframes originally anticipated, may result in unforeseen 
integration difficulties, and may dilute existing 
shareholders’ interests The Company regularly explores 
opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets 
and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or 
financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, 
size or timing of acquisitions it might pursue. 

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory 
approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. 
The Company’s ability to pursue or complete an attractive 
acquisition could be negatively impacted by regulatory delay or 
other regulatory issues. The Company cannot be certain when or 
if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory 
approvals will be granted. For example, the Company may be 
required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory 
approval for bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain 
regulatory violations, including those that result in a downgrade in 
certain of the Company’s bank regulatory ratings, governmental 
authorities could, as a consequence, preclude it from pursuing 
future acquisitions for a period of time. 

There can be no assurance that acquisitions the Company 
completes will have the anticipated positive results, including 
results related to expected revenue increases, cost savings, 

155 

increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other 
projected benefits. Integration efforts could divert management’s 
attention and resources, which could adversely affect the 
Company’s operations or results. The integration could result in 
higher than expected customer loss, deposit attrition, loss of key 
employees, disruption of the Company’s businesses or the 
businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely 
affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with 
customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of 
the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures 
required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business 
combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, future 
acquisitions may also expose the Company to increased legal or 
regulatory risks. Finally, future acquisitions could be material to 
the Company, and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay 
for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ 
ownership interests. 

Accounting and Tax Risk 
The Company’s reported financial results depend on 
management’s selection of accounting methods and 
certain assumptions and estimates, which, if incorrect, 
could cause unexpected losses in the future The Company’s 
accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the 
Company records and reports its financial condition and results 
of operations. The Company’s management must exercise 
judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting 
policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted 
accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment 
regarding the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s 
financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, 
management must select the accounting policy or method to 
apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 
reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the 
Company’s reporting materially different results than would have 
been reported under a different alternative. 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. They 
require management to make difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different 
amounts could be reported under different conditions or using 
different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting 
policies include the allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair 
value, the valuation of MSRs, and income taxes. Because of the 
uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company 
may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly 

increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit 
losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, 
recognize significant losses on the remeasurement of certain 
asset and liability balances, or significantly increase its accrued 
taxes liability. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting 
Policies” in this Annual Report. 

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact 
the Company’s financial statements From time to time, the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 
of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be 
hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company 
records and reports its financial condition and results of 
operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or 
revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard 
differently, on a retroactive basis, in each case potentially 
resulting in the Company restating prior period financial 
statements. As an example, effective January 1, 2020, the 
Company adopted accounting guidance issued by the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board related to the impairment of 
financial instruments, particularly the allowance for loan losses. 
This guidance changes impairment recognition to a model that is 
based on expected losses rather than incurred losses, which is 
intended to result in more timely recognition of credit losses. 
Upon adoption, the Company increased its allowance for credit 
losses and reduced retained earnings by $1.5 billion. 

The Company’s investments in certain tax-advantaged 
projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may 
have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results 
The Company invests in certain tax-advantaged projects 
promoting affordable housing, community development and 
renewable energy resources. The Company’s investments in 
these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through 
the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other 
tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is subject 
to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain 
subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance 
features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet 
certain government compliance requirements and will not be able 
to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credit and 
other tax benefits can have a negative impact on the Company’s 
financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax 
credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside 
of the Company’s control, including changes in the applicable tax 
code and the ability of the projects to be completed. 

156 

