 1A. Risk Factors

&#160;&#8212; There are a number of factors that may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial results or stock price. These risks are described elsewhere in this report or the Company&#8217;s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2019. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the Company&#8217;s business or adversely impact its financial results or stock price. 

There are no material changes from the risk factors set forth under Item 1A of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2019, and Part II, Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q

for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2020 (the &#8220;June 10-Q&#8221;),

except that the following risk factor replaces the risk factor in the June 10-Q:

The Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19

pandemic

The COVID-19

pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, capital, liquidity and results of operations. The Company cannot predict at this time the extent to which it will continue to be negatively affected by the COVID-19

pandemic. The extent of any continued or future adverse effects of the COVID-19

pandemic will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and outside the Company&#8217;s control, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on the Company&#8217;s employees, customers, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. If the pandemic is prolonged, or other diseases emerge that give rise to similar effects, the adverse impact on the global economy and Company could deepen. 

Many of the Company&#8217;s counterparties and third-party service providers have been, and may further be, affected by &#8220;stay-at-home&#8221;

orders, market volatility and other factors that increase their risks of business disruption or that may otherwise affect their ability to perform under the terms of any agreements with the Company or provide essential services. As a result, the Company&#8217;s operational and other risks are generally expected to increase until the pandemic subsides. In addition, the Company&#8217;s business operations may be disrupted if significant portions of its workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, caring for dependents, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions in connection with the pandemic. The Company has temporarily, and in some cases permanently, closed certain of its offices and reduced operating hours and/or lobby services at its branches. The Company may also face heightened cybersecurity, information security or other operational risks resulting from alternative working arrangements of its employees.

In response to the pandemic and to support its customers, the Company is offering fee waivers, payment deferrals and other expanded assistance to credit card, automobile, mortgage, small business and personal lending customers, including committing in certain states in which it operates, to suspend mortgage payments and foreclosure sales for financially impacted customers for certain periods of time. A significant number of the Company&#8217;s customers have already sought to suspend their mortgage payments under these programs. Suspensions of mortgage payments and foreclosures and reduced pricing under these programs may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s revenue and results of operations. In addition, if these or other measures provided by the Company are not effective in mitigating the financial consequences of COVID-19

on customers, including providing loans under various newly created government-sponsored lending programs such as the Paycheck Protection Program (the &#8220;PPP&#8221;), the Company may experience higher rates of default, increased credit losses and additional increases in its allowance for credit losses in future periods.

Certain industries where the Company has credit exposure, including the transportation industry, and in particular air travel, have experienced significant operational challenges as a result of COVID-19.

These negative effects have resulted in a number of corporate lending clients making higher than usual draws on outstanding lines of credit over the last several months. Many of these customers have since paid down these draws, but if current economic conditions

&#160;

U.S. Bancorp &#160; 79

persist or worsen, client draws on outstanding lines of credit may begin to increase again which may adversely affect the Company&#8217;s liquidity. The economic effects of COVID-19

may also cause the Company&#8217;s customers to be unable to pay their loans as they come due or decrease the value of collateral, which the Company expects would cause significant increases in its credit losses and result in additional increases in the Company&#8217;s allowance for credit losses. In addition, the Company could be exposed to further losses in its role as merchant processor of credit card transactions, as under the rules of credit card associations, a merchant processor retains a contingent liability for credit card transactions processed. In the event a merchant was unable to fulfill product or services subject to future delivery, such as airline tickets, the Company could become financially liable for refunding to the cardholders the purchase price of such products or services purchased through credit card associations, in the event the merchant was not able to do so.

Net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest. The significant reductions to the federal funds rate have led to a decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury securities, in some cases declining below zero. If interest rates are reduced further in response to COVID-19,

the Company&#8217;s net interest income could continue to decline, perhaps significantly. The overall effect of lower interest rates cannot be predicted at this time and depends on future actions the Federal Reserve may take to increase or reduce the targeted federal funds rate in response to the COVID-19

pandemic and resulting economic conditions.

The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides credit and debit card, corporate payments products and merchant processing services. Revenues from its payment services businesses depend on consumer and business credit card spending, including at many small and medium-sized businesses. Due to responses to COVID-19,

including stay-at-home

orders that require businesses other than those defined as essential to close and for consumers to remain at home unless they are engaged in essential activities, consumer and business credit card spending significantly declined. Although stay-at-home

orders have gradually been lifted and business activity has increased, if business closures reoccur, consumers are reluctant to return to open businesses or unemployment continues to stay at elevated levels, the Company expects to experience further adverse effects on its payment services businesses. This negative effect could continue after the pandemic subsides if a substantial number of businesses were to close permanently as a result of COVID-19&#8217;s

economic effects or if consumer and business spending were to remain depressed.

The effects of the COVID-19

pandemic on economic and market conditions may negatively affect the Company&#8217;s capital and leverage ratios. During 2020 the Federal Reserve implemented measures, requiring all large bank holding companies to preserve capital through the suspension of share repurchase programs and capping common stock dividends to existing rates that do not exceed the average of the last four quarters&#8217; earnings. These capital preservation actions apply to the third and fourth quarters of 2020 but may be extended or modified by the Federal Reserve as economic conditions develop. The COVID-19

pandemic may cause the Company to further extend the suspension of its share repurchase program and limit capital distributions, including reducing or suspending its common stock dividend. Additionally, as a result of the COVID-19

sensitivity analysis conducted by the Federal Reserve, banks are required to resubmit capital plans in the fourth quarter of 2020 to reflect current stressed capital conditions.

Governmental authorities worldwide have taken unprecedented measures to stabilize the markets and support economic growth. However, these measures may not be sufficient to address the negative economic effects of COVID-19

or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity.

Many financial institutions, including the Company, have received inquiries from the United States Congress, regulators and other government agencies regarding implementation of provisions and programs under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (&#8220;CARES&#8221;) Act, and also are subject to early-stage litigation concerning their participation in the PPP under that Act. The Company&#8217;s involvement in these and other programs created in response to the COVID-19

pandemic may lead to additional government and regulatory inquiries and litigation in the future, any of which could negatively impact the Company&#8217;s business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.

Other negative effects of COVID-19

and the resulting economic and market disruptions, including customer disputes, challenges of transitioning employees back to the workplace, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny of response actions taken by the Company, that may impact the Company&#8217;s business, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations cannot be predicted at this time. However, it is likely that the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected until the pandemic subsides and the domestic economy recovers. Further, the COVID-19

pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Until the pandemic subsides, the Company expects reduced revenues from its lending businesses, possible additional increases in its allowance and related provision for credit losses and decreased

&#160;

&#160; U.S. Bancorp 

revenue from its payments businesses. Even after the pandemic subsides, it is possible that the domestic and other major global economies will continue to experience a prolonged recession, which the Company expects would adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations, potentially materially. 

