 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

This section highlights the material risks that we currently face. Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations or the trading price of our securities. 

Strategic Risk 

Competition in the financial services industry may adversely affect our future earnings and growth. 

We operate in a highly competitive environment and our profitability and future growth depends on our ability to compete successfully based on such factors as pricing, convenience, product offerings, technology, accessibility, quality of service, and client relationships. We face pricing competition for loans and deposits and, in order for us to compete for borrowers and depositors, we may be required to offer loans and deposits on terms less favorable to us, including lower rates on our loans and higher rates on our deposits. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, enabling them to be more aggressive than us in competing across the financial services landscape and investing in new products, technology and services. In addition, the ability of non-bank competitors to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified the competition we face. These non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us and, therefore, may be able to operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Non-bank competitors can also operate in areas or offer certain products that may be considered speculative or risky. This significant competition in making loans and attracting and retaining deposits as well as in providing other financial services may impact our future earnings and growth. 

Furthermore, the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. 

&#8226; While we cannot predict the actions of state or federal legislatures or regulators, there is increasing likelihood that the bank regulatory landscape could shift due to legislation or regulatory action. Any material change to federal or state banking laws, regulations, or enforcement position could result in increased competition or make it more difficult for banks of our size to compete, either broadly or in specific segments of our business. 

&#8226; Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks and smaller banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by larger banks. Competitors adopting new technologies or changes to consumer behaviors or expectations could require us to make significant expenditures to modify or make additions to our current products and services. 

&#8226; There has also been increasing consolidation among regional banks similar in size or larger than us resulting in even larger banks. The resulting larger banks, as well as many other banks that are larger than us, may be able to achieve economies of scale due to their size and, as a result, may be able to operate more efficiently than us and also offer a broader range of products and services than we do, as well as better pricing for those products and services. 

We may not realize the expected benefits from our strategic initiatives and other operational and execution goals, either in whole or in part, which could negatively impact our future profitability. 

In the current competitive banking environment, overall revenue growth must outpace operating costs, which requires the successful execution of both growth and efficiency initiatives. In addition, we must continue to implement strategies to grow our product and service offerings and keep pace with changing technologies and client expectations in order to realize continued earnings growth and to remain competitive with the other banks and non-bank financial services providers in the markets we serve. We are continuously implementing strategic initiatives to achieve growth, reduce expense, and unlock efficiencies. Our current initiatives include, but are not limited to, expanding our banking-as-a-service capabilities, growing our corporate and investment banking and middle market commercial banking divisions, developing certain digital asset capabilities and products, and investing in the bank of the future through automation, artificial intelligence, digital, and analytics. While we have realized growth and efficiency gains as a result of current and past initiatives, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will be successful in supporting growth or achieving the expected level of future savings and revenue enhancements that we anticipate. Additionally, any new service and product offerings, particularly digital offerings, will compete directly with other Synovus Bank product and service offerings. Consequently, any realized revenue from such growth initiatives may correspond to decreased revenue from other Synovus Bank product and service offerings. 

Furthermore, our strategic initiatives may result in an increase in expense, divert management attention, take away from other opportunities that may have proved more successful, negatively impact operational effectiveness or impact employee morale. In addition, management expects to continue to make strategic investments in technology and talent that are expected to improve our client experience and support future growth which will require an increase in our expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately realize the anticipated benefits of these strategic initiatives, or that these strategic initiatives 

will positively impact our organization. These initiatives may fail to meet our own or our client&#8217;s expectations and may fail to keep pace with bank and non-bank competition and we may realize significant losses as a result. 

Finally, changes to the bank regulatory landscape generally, but particularly with respect to digital product offerings and third-party service providers, could negatively impact and undermine the rationale behind several of our initiatives. 

The implementation of new lines of business, new products and services, and new technologies may subject us to additional risk. 

We have launched or enhanced a number of lines of business, products and services, and technologies, including, among others, those related to our banking-as-a-service capabilities, corporate and investment banking initiatives, treasury and payments solutions business, and asset-based and structured lending capabilities. An important part of our business strategy is to continue these efforts to implement new products, services, and technologies designed to better serve our clients and respond to digitization trends in banking. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business, new products or services, and/or new technologies may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. Additionally, such new products, services, and technologies often increase our reliance on third-party service providers. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business, a new product or service, and/or new technologies. Furthermore, any new line of business, new product or service, and/or new technology could require the establishment of new key controls and other controls and have a significant impact on our existing system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business, products, or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 

We may pursue bank and non-bank acquisition opportunities as they arise. However, even if we identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms or realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. 

While we continue to focus on organic growth opportunities, we may pursue attractive bank or non-bank acquisition and consolidation opportunities that arise in our core markets and beyond. The number of financial institutions headquartered within our footprint and across the country continues to decline through merger and other consolidation activity. In the event that attractive acquisition opportunities arise, we would likely face competition for such acquisitions from other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources and may have more attractive valuations. This competition could either prevent us from being able to complete attractive acquisition opportunities or increase prices for potential acquisitions which could reduce our potential returns and reduce the attractiveness of these opportunities. Furthermore, even if we are able to identify and complete acquisitions, the terms of such acquisitions may not be favorable to us or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. In addition, all acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals, and if we were unable (or there was a perception that we would be unable) to obtain such approvals for any reason, including due to any actual or perceived capital, liquidity, profitability, or regulatory compliance issues, it would impair our ability to consummate acquisitions. Any acquisition could also be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders&#8217; equity per share of our common stock. 

Operational Risk 

Failure to attract and retain employees may adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our growth and efficiency strategies. 

Our financial success depends upon our ability to attract and retain diverse, highly motivated, and well-qualified personnel that we rely on to execute all aspects of our business. We face increasingly significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees at all levels from financial institutions and others. Moreover, the banking industry continues to transform due to technological innovation, increased demand for workplace flexibility, and competition for talent from non-bank financial services providers, and our ability to recruit and retain qualified individuals that bring a diversity of perspective and innovative thinking to our teams is both more difficult and more necessary. These trends, combined with labor shortages, have resulted in generally increased labor costs. Such trends may continue in the near term, which may result in further challenges in hiring and retaining employees throughout the organization. We must continually assess and manage how our talent needs change over time and failure to meet such needs may have a negative impact on our ability to compete. 

In addition, our future growth and the continued diversification of our loan portfolio depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain the right mix of well-qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to execute our business strategies may suffer and we may be required to substantially increase our overall compensation or benefits to attract and retain such employees. Furthermore, we generally do not have employment agreements with our frontline employees, management team, or other key employees and cannot guarantee that our employees will remain with us. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel, especially members of our senior management team, 

could have a material adverse impact on the business because we would lose their skills, knowledge of the market, and years of industry experience and may have difficulty promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, the unexpected loss or inability to hire or retain branch-level employees could have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase deposits, generate frontline revenue, and properly service our clients. 

Furthermore, we have had a number of employee changes resulting from our voluntary early retirement program in 2023 and certain leadership changes over the last several years. Such changes can be inherently difficult to manage, and an inadequate transition may cause disruption to our business, including our relationships with our clients, suppliers, vendors, and employees. It may also make it more difficult for us to hire and retain key employees. In addition, any failure to ensure the effective transfer of knowledge and a smooth leadership transition could hinder our strategic planning, execution, and future performance. 

The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those changes, we will not be able to effectively compete. 

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, primarily related to increased digitization of banking services and capabilities (including those related to or involving artificial intelligence, machine learning, blockchain, and other technologies) and increased demand for mobile banking solutions. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with these technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow client demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our substantial investments in digital banking solutions, technology, and information systems will increase our dependency on third-party service providers and such investments may underperform expectations and could result in unexpected losses. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and have invested more heavily than us, and will continue to be able to do so, in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Some of these competitors consist of financial technology providers who are beginning to offer more traditional banking products and may either acquire a bank charter or obtain a bank-like charter, such as the Fintech charter provided by the OCC. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients or keep pace with our competitors in this arena. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. 

We may not be able to successfully implement current or future information technology system enhancements and operational initiatives, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability. 

We continue to invest significant resources in our core information technology systems, including by deepening and expanding our use of cloud-based applications, in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level, and to improve our operating efficiency and to streamline our client experience. These initiatives significantly increase the complexity of our relationships with third-party service providers and such relationships may be difficult to unwind. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate such system enhancements and initiatives, which could adversely impact our ability to comply with a number of legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. In addition, these projects could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components, and could impact our ability to compete. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting, and amortization expense during and after implementation, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. As such, we cannot guarantee that the anticipated long-term benefits of these system enhancements and operational initiatives will be realized. 

We rely extensively on information technology systems to operate our business and an interruption or security breach may disrupt our business operations, result in reputational harm, and have an adverse effect on our operations. 

As a complex financial institution, we rely extensively on our information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. As client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. While we have policies, procedures, and systems designed to prevent or limit the effect of possible failures, interruptions, or breaches in security of information systems and 

business continuity programs designed to provide services in the case of such events, there is no guarantee that these safeguards or programs will address all of the threats that continue to evolve. 

We face significant cyber and data security risk that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect our business or reputation, and expose us to significant liabilities . 

As a complex financial institution, we are under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks. This risk continues to increase, and attack methods continue to evolve in sophistication, velocity, and frequency and can occur from a variety of sources, such as foreign governments, hacktivists, or other well-financed entities, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world. Furthermore remote working environments for both Synovus and many of our clients has heightened these risks. We continually review the security of our IT systems and make the necessary investments to improve the resiliency of our systems and their security from attack. Nonetheless, there remains the risk that we may be materially harmed by a cyber-attack or information security breach. Further, there is no guarantee that our response to any cyber-attack or system interruption, breach, or failure will be effective to mitigate and remediate the issues resulting from such an event, including the costs, reputational harm, and litigation challenges that we may face as a result. 

Data privacy laws also continue to evolve, with states increasingly proposing or enacting legislation that relates to data privacy and data protection. We may be required to incur additional expense to comply with these evolving regulations and could face penalties for violating any of these regulations. 

Two of the most significant cyber-attack risks that we face are e-fraud and loss of sensitive client data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from client or our accounts. Any loss of sensitive client data that results from attempts to breach our systems, such as account numbers and social security numbers, would present significant reputational, legal, and/or regulatory costs to us. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we have been the subject of attempted hacking and cyber-attacks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such significant losses in the future. 

The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in material adverse consequences to us including damage to our reputation, disclosure obligations, the loss of clients, and violations of applicable data privacy laws. We also could face litigation and regulatory action. Litigation or regulatory actions in turn could lead to significant liability or other sanctions, including fines and penalties or reimbursement to clients adversely affected by a security breach. Even if we do not suffer any material adverse consequences as a result of events affecting us directly, successful attacks or systems failures at other large financial institutions could lead to a general loss of client confidence in financial institutions including us. 

Fraud remains an elevated risk for us and for all banks, and as such, we may experience increased losses due to fraud. 

In recent years, fraud risk continued to be a significant risk for us and for all banks. Card fraud and deposit fraud (check kiting, wire fraud, etc.) continue to be significant sources of fraud attempts and losses in our consumer banking business. Moreover, our commercial clients have experienced increased levels of financial fraud risk as well, often requiring our involvement and assistance because of our banking relationship with these clients. The methods used to perpetrate and combat fraud continue to evolve as technology changes and more tools for access to financial services emerge, such as real-time payments. In addition to cybersecurity risks, new techniques have made it easier for bad actors to obtain and use client personal information, mimic signatures, and otherwise create false documents that look genuine. Fraud schemes are broad and can include debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, NSF fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials, employee fraud, information fraud, and other malfeasance. Criminals are turning to new sources to steal personally identifiable information in order to impersonate our clients to commit fraud. 

Our anti-fraud actions are both preventative (anticipating lines of attack, educating employees and clients, making operational changes) and responsive (remediating actual attacks). We have established policies, processes, and procedures to identify, measure, monitor, mitigate, report, and analyze these risks. We continue to invest in systems, resources, and controls to detect and prevent fraud. There are inherent limitations, however, to our risk management strategies, systems, and controls as they may exist, or develop in the future. We may not appropriately anticipate, monitor, or identify these risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses, we may have to expend resources detecting and correcting the failure in our systems, and we may be subject to potential claims from third parties and government agencies. We may also suffer reputational damage. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

Our regulators require us to report fraud promptly, and regulators often advise banks of new schemes to enable the entire industry to adapt as quickly as possible. However, some level of fraud loss is unavoidable, and the risk of loss cannot be eliminated. 

If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing shareholder value. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, market, credit, liquidity, capital, cybersecurity, operational, regulatory compliance, litigation, and reputational. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. For example, the financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business, and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. 

Our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring, and retaining and providing growth opportunities for employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our clients, caring about our clients and employees, and investing in our information technology and other systems. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, including as a result of operational, clerical, or record-keeping errors, or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems or a successful cyber-attack against us or other unauthorized release or loss of client information, our reputation, business, and our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Damage to our reputation could also negatively impact our credit ratings and impede our access to the capital markets. 

We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. 

Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as our core technology infrastructure, cloud-based operations, data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections, and network access. We have selected these third-party vendors carefully and have conducted the due diligence consistent with regulatory guidance and best practices. While we have ongoing programs to review third-party vendors and assess risk, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, issues at a third-party vendor of a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason, or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us. Furthermore, our vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our digital services growth initiatives, core technology upgrades, and digital asset initiatives constitute specific increases in third-party risk as such initiatives are distinctly dependent on the performance of our third-party partners. 

As an issuer of credit and debit cards we are exposed to losses in the event that holders of our cards experience fraud on their card accounts . 

Our clients regularly use Synovus-issued credit and debit cards to pay for transactions with retailers and other businesses. There is the risk of data security breaches at these retailers and other businesses that could result in the misappropriation of our clients&#8217; credit and debit card information. We also may nonetheless suffer losses associated with reimbursing our clients for fraudulent transactions on clients&#8217; card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security compromise events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. In addition, we provide card transaction processing services to some merchant clients under agreements we have with payment networks such as Visa and MasterCard. Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant clients suffers a data security breach. 

Our independent sales organization relationships are complex and may expose us to losses. 

We maintain relationships with a number of ISOs, which generally act as intermediaries for third-party companies that want to develop the capacity to accept payment cards. ISO activities include, among other things, acquiring and issuing functions, soliciting merchants and other clients, soliciting cardholders, underwriting and monitoring, arranging for terminal leases or purchases, account and transaction processing, and client service. We face risks related to our oversight and 

supervision of the ISO program (including compliance and reputational monitoring) as well as to the reputation and financial viability of the ISOs with which we do business. Any failure by us to appropriately oversee and supervise our ISO program could damage our reputation, result in regulatory or compliance issues, result in third-party litigation, and cause financial losses to us. Further, our ISO program is highly dependent upon the activities and financial viability of our ISO counter-parties, and any negative developments at the ISOs may present financial losses and other risk to us. 

The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or other financial institutions or counterparties, or related adverse facts and developments, could materially affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 

We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries, or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in &#8220;Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings&#8221; and "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies" of this Report. Furthermore, litigation against banks tend to increase during economic downturns and periods of credit deterioration which may occur or worsen as a result of the current economic uncertainty. 

We manage these risks through internal controls, employee training, insurance, litigation management, our compliance and ethics processes, and other means. However, the commencement, outcome, and magnitude of litigation cannot be predicted or controlled with any certainty. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the losses can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. For those legal matters where the amounts associated with the claims are not probable and the costs cannot be reasonably estimated, Synovus estimates a range of reasonably possible losses. As of December 31, 2023, Synovus' management currently estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses resulting from our outstanding litigation, including, without limitation, the matters described in this Report, is from zero to $10 million in excess of the amounts accrued, if any, related to those matters. This estimated aggregate range is based upon information currently available to us, and the actual losses could prove to be higher. As there are further developments in these legal matters, we will reassess these matters and the estimated range of reasonably possible losses may change as a result of this assessment. In addition, in the future, we may need to record additional litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could significantly harm our reputation and divert our management's attention and other resources away from our business. 

Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. 

Credit and Liquidity Risk 

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our net interest income. 

Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, is a major component of our income and our primary source of revenue from our operations. Narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We cannot control or predict with certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures, and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense. 

Beginning in early 2022 and through July 2023, in response to growing signs of inflation, the FRB increased interest rates rapidly and made a number of adjustments to monetary policy and liquidity, including quantitative tightening and other balance sheet actions. Rising interest rates can have a negative impact on our business by reducing the amount of money our clients borrow or by adversely affecting their ability to repay outstanding loan balances that may increase due to adjustments in their variable rates. In addition, as interest rates rise, we may have to offer more attractive interest rates to depositors to compete for deposits, or pursue other sources of liquidity, such as wholesale funds. 

On the other hand, decreasing interest rates reduce our yield on our variable rate loans and on our new loans, which reduces our net interest income. In addition, lower interest rates may reduce our realized yields on investment securities which would reduce our net interest income and cause downward pressure on net interest margin in future periods. A significant reduction in our net interest income could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Although the FRB increased the target federal funds rate throughout 2022 and 2023 to combat inflationary trends, the FRB held the federal funds rate steady in December 2023 for the third consecutive meeting and indicated that the rate is likely to be 

decreased in 2024 and beyond. We are unable to predict changes in interest rates, which are affected by factors beyond our control, including inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and other changes in financial markets. 

We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates and actively manage these risks through hedging and other risk mitigation strategies. However, if our assumptions are wrong or overall economic conditions are significantly different than anticipated, our risk mitigation techniques may be ineffective or costly. 

Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market may adversely affect our capital resources, liquidity, and financial results. 

In managing our consolidated balance sheets, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. In addition to core deposits, sources of funding available to us and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy include borrowings from the FHLB and brokered deposits. In general, the amount, type, and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets, and deposits, directly impacts our costs of operating our business and growing our assets and can therefore positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive, or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, a downgrade in our credit ratings, financial results, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, recently proposed changes to the FHLB system, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions, and the legal, regulatory, accounting, and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources. 

In addition to bank level liquidity management, we must manage liquidity at the Parent Company for various needs including potential capital infusions into subsidiaries, the servicing of debt, the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock, and share repurchases. The primary source of liquidity for us consists of dividends from Synovus Bank which are governed by certain rules and regulations of our supervising agencies. Synovus' ability to receive dividends from Synovus Bank in future periods will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation, Synovus Bank's future profits, asset quality, liquidity, and overall condition. In addition, GA DBF rules and related statutes contain additional restrictions on payments of dividends by Synovus Bank. In particular, the Georgia Financial Institutions Code contains restrictions on the ability of a Georgia bank to pay dividends other than from retained earnings and under other circumstances without the approval of the GA DBF. As a result of these restrictions, Synovus Bank may be required to seek approval from the GA DBF to pay dividends. If Synovus does not receive dividends from Synovus Bank as needed, its liquidity could be adversely affected, and it may not be able to continue to execute its current capital plan to return capital to its shareholders. In addition to dividends from Synovus Bank, we have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, including the capital markets, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If our access to these traditional and alternative sources of liquidity is diminished or only available on unfavorable terms, then our overall liquidity and financial condition will be adversely affected. 

If Synovus Bank loses or is unable to grow and retain its deposits, it may be subject to liquidity risk and higher funding costs. 

The total amount that we pay for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Synovus Bank&#8217;s ability to grow and retain its deposits. If Synovus Bank is unable to sufficiently grow and retain its deposits at competitive rates to meet liquidity needs, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs to meet these liquidity needs. 

Synovus Bank competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. As a result of monetary policy and the broader market for interest rates and funding, we were required to raise rates on many of our deposits in 2023 to keep pace with our competition. Moreover, Synovus Bank&#8217;s funding costs may increase further in the near term. If Synovus Bank were to lose deposits, it must rely on more expensive sources of funding. This could result in a failure to maintain adequate liquidity and higher funding costs, reducing our net interest margin and net interest income. In addition, our access to deposits may be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a substantial majority of our liabilities in 2023 were checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, a substantial majority of our assets were loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Moreover, our clients could withdraw their deposits in favor of alternative investments. While we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. 

Our allowance for credit losses may not cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. 

We derive the most significant portion of our revenue from our lending activities. When we lend money, commit to lend money, or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. We estimate and maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, representing management's best estimate of life of loan credit losses within the existing portfolio of loans and related unfunded commitments, as described under "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for Credit Losses" in this Report. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the use of both qualitative and quantitative information, including estimates, assumptions, and quantitative modeling techniques, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of non-accrual loans, changes in assumptions regarding a borrower's ability to pay, changes in collateral values, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may cause the allowance for credit losses to become inadequate and require an increase in the provision for credit losses. 

We expect that the allowance for credit losses under the CECL standard to be more volatile and as such could have an impact on our results of operations. For a discussion of changes in accounting standards and regulatory capital implications, see &#8220;Part I - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors - Capital Requirements.&#8221; 

Various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination procedures, periodically review the allowance as well as the supporting methods and processes. Based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination, such agencies may require us to recognize additions to the allowance or additional loan charge offs. An increase in the allowance for credit losses would result in a decrease in net income and capital and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. 

Changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Asset quality measures the performance of a borrower in repaying a loan, with interest, on time. While we believe that we manage asset quality through prudent underwriting practices and collection operations, it is possible that our asset quality could deteriorate, depending upon economic conditions and other factors. Our asset quality generally remains strong, but further economic disruption could negatively impact asset quality in future periods, particularly as to those borrowers in certain adversely and disproportionately impacted industries. 

We could realize losses if we determine to sell non-performing assets and the proceeds we receive are lower than the carrying value of such assets. 

Distressed asset sales have been a component of our strategy to further strengthen the consolidated balance sheets, improve asset quality, and enhance earnings. We could realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are lower than the recorded carrying value of such assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, we could realize an increased level of credit costs in any period during which we determine to dispose of an increased level of distressed assets. Further, if market conditions deteriorate, this could negatively impact our ability to dispose of distressed assets and may result in higher credit losses on sales of distressed assets. 

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and repay maturing debt obligations. 

As of December 31, 2023, we and our consolidated subsidiaries had $1.93 billion of long-term debt outstanding. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest or to satisfy our obligations in respect of our debt, to refinance our debt, or to fund capital expenditures will depend on our future financial and operating performance and our ability to maintain adequate liquidity. Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates), and regulatory constraints, including, among other things, distributions to us from our subsidiaries and required capital levels with respect to our subsidiary bank and financial subsidiaries, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may also affect our ability to meet these needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on maturity, and we may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments in our business, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity or debt financing, or restructure our debt on terms that may not be favorable to us. 

We may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock . 

Holders of our common stock and preferred stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, we are not legally required to do so. Further, the Federal Reserve could decide at any time that paying any dividends on our common stock or preferred stock could be an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The reduction or elimination of dividends paid on our common stock or preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or preferred stock, as applicable. In addition, if we fail to pay dividends on our preferred stock for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the holders of such preferred stock shall be entitled to certain rights to elect two directors to our Board of Directors. 

For a discussion of current regulatory limits on our ability to pay dividends, see "Part I - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors - Payment of Dividends" and &#8220;Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors - Compliance and Regulatory Risk - We may become subject to supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock and preferred stock &#8221; in this Report for further information. 

Compliance and Regulatory Risk 

The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 

The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold. Federal Reserve policies may also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy. This, in turn, may result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve and other governmental policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Because of changing conditions in the national and international economies and in the money markets, as well as the result of actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, all of which are beyond our control, it is not possible to predict with certainty future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand, or the business and results of operations of Synovus and Synovus Bank, or whether changing economic conditions will have a positive or negative effect on operations and earnings. Also, potential new taxes or increased taxes on corporations generally, or on financial institutions specifically, could adversely affect our net income. 

The banking industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory framework, together with any future legislative or regulatory changes, may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, clients, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not for the protection of our shareholders and creditors. We and Synovus Bank are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, the GA DBF, and the CFPB, among others. The laws and regulations applicable to us govern a variety of matters, including permissible types, amounts, and terms of loans and investments we may make, the maximum interest rate that may be charged, the amount of reserves Synovus Bank must hold against deposits it takes, the types of deposits Synovus Bank may accept and the rates it may pay on such deposits, maintenance of adequate capital and liquidity, changes in the control of the company and Synovus Bank, restrictions on dividends, and establishment of new offices by Synovus Bank. We incur significant, recurring costs to comply with all applicable regulations and there is no guarantee that our compliance programs will ensure compliance with all applicable regulations. We must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in certain activities, and there can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require will be obtained, either in a timely manner or at all. In addition, new technologies could make regulatory compliance more challenging. Remaining compliant and receiving regulatory approvals is dependent on our ability to improve and develop our technological capabilities. Our regulators also have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely, such as actions that our regulators deem to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or regulatory policies and interpretations of such laws and regulations, could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, or damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These changes may result in increased costs of doing business and decreased revenue and net income, may reduce our ability to effectively compete to attract and retain clients, or make it less attractive for us to continue providing certain products and services. We expect regulatory bodies such as the CFPB and FDIC to continue to take a more aggressive enforcement stance and increase their focus and scrutiny on all consumer facing financial institutions. Any future changes in federal and state law and regulations, as well as the interpretations and implementations of such laws and regulations and enforcement practices, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including those 

listed above, impact the regulatory structure under which we operate, significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and modify our business strategy, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or other ways that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

We may become subject to supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock and preferred stock. 

Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, state banking regulators, the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, each has the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if any of them determine that we have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. In addition to examinations for safety and soundness, we and our subsidiaries also are subject to continuous examination by state and federal banking regulators, including the CFPB, for compliance with various laws and regulations, as well as consumer compliance initiatives. As a result of this regulatory oversight and examination process, our regulators may require us to enter into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements, and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we could be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns, or to refrain from taking certain actions. 

If we become subject to and are unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory actions or directives, supervisory agreements, or orders, then we could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including consent orders, prompt corrective action restrictions, and/or other regulatory actions, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends on our common stock and our preferred stock. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, discontinue our share repurchase program, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or all of the above. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition, and the value of our common stock. 

Further, bank failures, such as the ones occurring in 2023, have and may in the future diminish public confidence in small and regional banks' abilities to safeguard deposits in excess of federally insured limits, which could prompt clients to maintain their deposits with larger financial institutions. Concerns over rapid, large-scale deposit movement have and could in the future heighten regulatory scrutiny surrounding liquidity and increase competition for deposits and the resulting cost of funding, which could create pressure on net interest margin and results of operations. In addition, bank failures have and could in the future prompt the FDIC to increase deposit insurance costs. Increases in funding, deposit insurance, or other costs as a result of these types of events have and could in the future materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the disruption following these types of events have and could in the future generate significant market trading volatility among publicly traded bank holdings companies and, in particular, regional banks like Synovus. 

We may be required to conserve capital or undertake additional strategic initiatives to improve our capital position due to changes in economic conditions or changes in regulatory capital rules. 

We and Synovus Bank are required under federal law to maintain certain minimum capital levels based on ratios of capital to total assets and capital to risk-weighted assets. The required capital ratios are minimums, and the Federal Reserve may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity, or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner. Moreover, federal bank regulators have issued a series of guidance and rulemakings applicable to large banks. While many of these do not currently apply to us due to our asset size, these issuances could impact industry capital standards and practices in many potentially unforeseeable ways. While we currently exceed all minimum regulatory capital requirements, are considered well-capitalized under applicable rules, and believe that we maintain an appropriate capital plan, there is no guarantee that we will not need to increase our capital levels in the future. 

We actively monitor economic conditions, evolving industry capital standards, and changes in regulatory standards and requirements, and engage in regular discussions with our regulators regarding capital at both Synovus and Synovus Bank. As part of our ongoing management of capital, we identify, consider, and pursue additional strategic initiatives to bolster our capital position as deemed necessary, including strategies that may be required to meet regulatory capital requirements. This includes the evaluation of share repurchase programs and dividends. The need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than may have previously been warranted or intended could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through future acquisitions, and invest in technology and other growth strategies. It could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. 

Market and Other General Risk 

Inflationary pressures and rising prices could negatively impact our business, our profitability, and our stock price. 

Inflation rose significantly during 2022 to levels not seen for over 40 years. Although inflation moderated in the first half of 2023 and significantly declined in the second half of 2023, the economic impact of inflation continues to persist. Prolonged periods of inflation may impact our profitability by negatively impacting our fixed costs and expenses, including increasing funding costs and expense related to talent acquisition and retention, and negatively impacting the demand for our products and services. Additionally, rising inflation may lead to a decrease in consumer and client purchasing power and negatively affect the need or demand for our products and services. If inflation continues, our business could be negatively affected by, among other things, increased default rates leading to credit losses which could decrease our appetite for new credit extensions. These inflationary pressures could result in missed earnings and budgetary projections causing our stock price to suffer. 

Unstable global economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, and operations. 

We are operating in an uncertain economic environment. The global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, high rates of inflation, and uncertainty about economic stability and a potential recession. While our management team continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint, we are unable to predict the duration or severity of such conditions or factors. If conditions were to worsen nationally, regionally, or locally, we could experience a sharp increase in our total net charge-offs and could also be required to significantly increase our allowance for credit losses. Economic instability could also result in decreased demand for loans and our other products and services. An increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision for credit losses, coupled with a potential decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services, could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth. Our clients may also be adversely impacted by changes in regulatory, trade (including tariffs), and tax policies and laws, all of which could reduce demand for loans and adversely impact our borrowers' ability to repay our loans. 

In addition, the financial markets and the global economy may also be adversely affected by the current or anticipated impact of military conflict, including the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which is increasing volatility in commodity and energy prices, creating supply chain issues and causing instability in financial markets. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other countries in response to such conflict, as well as the Israel/Hamas conflict and the strained relationship between the U.S. and China, could further adversely impact the stability of financial markets. The specific consequences of the conflicts in Ukraine and Israel/Hamas on our business is difficult to predict at this time, but in addition to inflationary pressures affecting our operations and those of our clients and borrowers, we may also experience an increase in cyber-attacks against us, our clients and borrowers, service providers, and other third parties. 

There can be no assurance that further deterioration in markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn or recession, volatile business environment, hostile third-party action, or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. The effects of any economic downturn or recession could continue for many years after the downturn or recession is considered to have ended. 

Recent negative developments affecting the banking industry, and resulting media coverage, have eroded client confidence in the banking system. 

The closures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank in March 2023 and First Republic Bank in May 2023, negative media attention surrounding these events, and concerns about future events have generated significant market volatility among publicly traded bank holding companies and, in particular, regional banks like Synovus. These market developments have negatively impacted client confidence in the safety and soundness of regional banks. As a result, some clients have chosen, and may continue to choose, to maintain deposits with larger financial institutions or invest in higher yielding short-term fixed income securities, all of which could materially adversely impact the Company's liquidity, loan funding capacity, net interest margin, capital, and results of operations. While the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC took action to ensure that depositors of these failed banks had access to their deposits, including uninsured deposit accounts, there is no guarantee that such actions will be successful in restoring client confidence in regional banks and the banking system more broadly. 

We also anticipate increased regulatory scrutiny &#8211; in the course of routine examinations and otherwise &#8211; and new regulations directed towards banks of similar size to Synovus Bank, designed to address the recent negative developments in the banking industry, all of which may increase our costs of doing business and reduce our profitability. Among other things, there may be an increased focus by both regulators and investors on deposit composition, the level of uninsured deposits, the level of unrealized losses in either available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities portfolios, contingent liquidity, CRE loan composition and concentration, capital position, and general oversight and internal control structures regarding the foregoing. This could impact our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and may result in changes to our balance sheet position which could, in turn, negatively impact our profitability. 

There may be risks resulting from the extensive use of models in our business. 

Synovus relies on quantitative models to measure risks, estimate certain financial values, and inform certain business decisions. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading and underwriting loans, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting or estimating losses, assessing capital adequacy, developing strategic initiatives, calculating regulatory capital levels, and estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. 

Models generally predict or infer certain financial outcomes, leveraging historical data and assumptions as to the future, often with respect to macroeconomic conditions. Development and implementation of some of these models requires us to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. Poorly designed, implemented, or incorrectly used models present the risk that certain Synovus business decisions may be adversely affected by inappropriate model output. In addition, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed, implemented, or incorrectly used models could be misleading or inaccurate. Certain decisions that the regulators make, including those related to dividends to Synovus&#8217; shareholders, could be adversely affected due to the perception of insufficient model quality or incorrect model use. 

ESG risks could adversely affect our reputation and shareholder, employee, client, and third-party relationships and may negatively affect our stock price. 

Our business faces increasing public scrutiny related to ESG activities. We risk damage to our brand and reputation if we fail to act responsibly or are perceived to act too aggressively in a number of areas, such as DEI, environmental stewardship, including with respect to climate change, human capital management, support for our local communities, corporate governance, and transparency, or fail to consider ESG factors in our business operations. 

Furthermore, as a result of our diverse base of clients and business partners, we may face potential negative publicity based on the identity of our clients or business partners and the public&#8217;s (or certain segments of the public&#8217;s) view of those entities. Such publicity may arise from traditional media sources or from social media and may increase rapidly in size and scope. If our client or business partner relationships were to become intertwined in such negative publicity, our ability to attract and retain clients, business partners, and employees may be negatively impacted, and our stock price may also be negatively impacted. Additionally, we may face pressure to not do business in certain industries that are viewed as harmful to the environment or are otherwise negatively perceived, which could impact our growth. 

Additionally, some investors and shareholder advocates are placing ever increasing emphasis on how corporations address ESG issues in their business strategy when making investment decisions and when developing their investment theses and proxy recommendations. We may incur meaningful costs with respect to our ESG efforts and if such efforts are negatively perceived, our reputation and stock price may suffer. 

Climate change could adversely affect our business, affect client activity levels, and damage our reputation. 

Concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and will continue to lead to governmental efforts around the world to mitigate those impacts. Consumers and businesses are also changing their behavior and business preferences as a result of these concerns. New governmental regulations or guidance relating to climate change, as well as changes in consumers' and businesses' behaviors and business preferences, may affect whether and on what terms and conditions we will engage in certain activities or offer certain products or services. The governmental and supervisory focus on climate change could also result in our becoming subject to new or heightened regulatory requirements, such as requirements relating to operational resiliency or stress testing for various climate stress scenarios. Any such new or heightened requirements could result in increased regulatory, compliance or other costs, or higher capital requirements. In connection with the transition to a low carbon economy, legislative or public policy changes, and changes in consumer sentiment could negatively impact the businesses and financial condition of our clients, which may decrease revenues from those clients and increase the credit risk associated with loans and other credit exposures to those clients. Our business, reputation, and ability to attract and retain employees may also be harmed if our response to climate change is perceived to be ineffective or insufficient. 

Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change may have a negative impact on our clients and their business. Physical risks include extreme storms that damage or destroy property and inventory securing loans we make, or may interrupt our clients' business operations, putting them in financial difficulty, and increasing the risk of default. Our clients are also facing changes in energy and commodity prices driven by climate change, as well as new regulatory requirements resulting in increased operational costs. 

As climate risk is interconnected with all key risk types, we continue to embed climate risk considerations into our risk management strategies. Due to the level of uncertainty around climate change, our risk management strategies may not be effective in fully mitigating climate risk exposure. 

Our concentrated operations in the Southeastern U.S. make us vulnerable to local economic conditions, local weather catastrophes, public health issues, and other external events, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern U.S. in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and Tennessee. As a result, local economic conditions significantly affect the demand for loans and other products we offer to our clients (including real estate, commercial, and construction loans), the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Economic downturns in these regions could adversely affect our currently performing loans, leading to future delinquencies or defaults and increases in our provision for credit losses. 

In addition, the occurrence of events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms, flooding, and other large-scale weather catastrophes in and along the Gulf and the Atlantic coasts, as well as other parts of the Southeastern U.S., and further public health issues, such as pandemics or other widespread health emergencies, could adversely affect the condition of collateral associated with our loan portfolio, our general financial condition, or the results of our operations. Such areas could be adversely impacted by such events in those regions, the nature and severity of which are difficult to predict. Furthermore, climate change could increase the frequency and severity of these risks. These and other unpredictable external events could have an adverse effect on us in that such events could materially disrupt our operations or the ability or willingness of its clients to access the financial services offered by Synovus. These events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. 

