 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Market Risk and Interest Rate Sensitivity 

Market risk reflects the risk of economic loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. This risk of loss can be reflected in either diminished market values within the balance sheet or reduced current and potential net income. Synovus&#8217; most significant market risk is interest rate risk. This risk arises primarily from Synovus&#8217; core banking activities of extending loans and accepting deposits. 

Managing interest rate risk is a primary goal of the asset liability management function. Synovus attempts to achieve consistency in net interest income while limiting volatility arising from changes in interest rates. Synovus seeks to accomplish this goal by balancing the maturity and repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities along with the selective use of derivative instruments. The Company manages this exposure in accordance with policies that are established by ALCO and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. ALCO meets periodically and has responsibility for developing asset liability management policies, reviewing the interest rate sensitivity of Synovus, and developing and implementing strategies to improve balance sheet structure and interest rate risk positioning. 

Interest rate risk is the primary market risk to which Synovus is potentially exposed. Synovus measures the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates through the use of simulation modeling, which incorporates all of Synovus' earnings assets and liabilities. These simulations are used to determine a baseline net interest income projection and the sensitivity of the income profile based on changes in interest rates. These simulations incorporate assumptions and factors, including, but not limited to, changes in market rates, in the size or composition of the balance sheet, and in repricing characteristics as well as client behaviors for both loans and deposits. This includes estimates for deposit repricing characteristics which, for purposes of the sensitivity estimates provided below, relies upon a constant, through-the-cycle total deposit cost beta of approximately 40%-45% as of the most recently reported period. The simulation modeling process is performed in a manner consistent with Synovus policies and procedures with results reviewed on an on-going basis by ALCO and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Within this framework, Synovus has modeled its baseline net interest income forecast assuming a relatively flat interest rate environment with the federal funds rate at the Federal Reserve's current targeted range of 5.25% to 5.50% as of December 31, 2023 and the current prime rate of 8.50% as of December 31, 2023. Synovus has modeled the impact of an immediate change in market interest rates across the yield curve of 100 and 200 bps to determine the sensitivity of net interest income for the next twelve months. As illustrated in the table below, the net interest income sensitivity derived from this simulation suggests that net interest income is projected to increase by 3.7% and 1.9% if interest rates increased by 200 and 100 bps, respectively. Net interest income is projected to decrease by 2.0% and 4.1% if interest rates decreased by 100 and 200 bps, respectively. 

The following table represents the estimated sensitivity of net interest income at December 31, 2023, with comparable information for December 31, 2022. 

##TABLE_START Table 24 - Twelve Month Net Interest Income Sensitivity Change in Interest Rates (in bps) Estimated Change in Net Interest Income As of December 31, 2023 2022 +200 3.7% 6.4% +100 1.9% 3.1% -100 (2.0)% (3.5)% -200 (4.1)% (7.5)% ##TABLE_END

While all of the above estimates are reflective of the general interest rate sensitivity of Synovus, local market conditions, the realized growth and remixing of the balance sheet, as well as the broader macroeconomic environment could all have a significant impact on the both the sensitivity and realized level of net interest income. Additionally, should there be differences between realized deposit betas for a given level of rates as compared to the Company's estimates for through-the-cycle betas, this may also have a significant impact on our reported sensitivity and the realized level of net interest income. 

The net interest income simulation model is the primary tool utilized to evaluate potential interest rate risks over a shorter-term time horizon. Synovus also evaluates potential longer-term interest rate risk through modeling and evaluation of the sensitivity of the Company's EVE. The EVE measurement process estimates the net fair value of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet financial instruments under various interest rate scenarios. Management uses EVE sensitivity analyses as an additional means of measuring interest rate and incorporates this form of analysis within its governance and limits framework. 

Synovus is also subject to market risk in certain of its fee income business lines. Financial management services revenue, which include trust, brokerage, and asset management fees, can be affected by risk in the securities markets, primarily the 

equity securities market. A significant portion of the fees in this unit are determined based upon a percentage of asset values. Weaker securities markets and lower equity values have an adverse impact on the fees generated by these operations. Trading account assets, maintained to facilitate brokerage client activity, are also subject to market risk; however, trading activities are limited and subject to risk policy limits. Additionally, Synovus utilizes various tools to measure and manage price risk in its trading portfolio. 

Mortgage banking income is also subject to market risk. Mortgage loan originations are sensitive to levels of mortgage interest rates and therefore, mortgage banking income can be negatively impacted during a period of rising interest rates as we have been experiencing through-the-cycle. The extension of commitments to clients to fund mortgage loans also subjects Synovus to market risk. This risk is primarily created by the time periods between making the commitment, closing, and delivering the loan. Synovus seeks to minimize its exposure by utilizing various risk management tools, including forward sales commitments and other economic hedges. 

Derivative Instruments for Interest Rate Risk Management 

Synovus utilizes derivative instruments to manage its exposure to various types of structural interest rate risks by executing end-user derivative transactions designated as hedges. Hedging relationships may be designated as either a cash flow hedge, which mitigates risk exposure to the variability of future cash flows or other forecasted transactions, or a fair value hedge, which mitigates risk exposure to adverse changes in the fair market value of a fixed rate asset or liability due to changes in market interest rates. 

As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, Synovus had $5.60 billion and $5.25 billion, respectively, in notional amounts outstanding of both effective and forward-starting interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedging instruments to hedge its exposure to contractually specified interest rate risk associated with floating rate loans. 

As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, Synovus had $2.56 billion and $2.23 billion, respectively, in notional amounts outstanding of receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedging instruments to hedge its exposure to the change in the fair value due to fluctuations in market interest rates for outstanding fixed-rate long-term debt and interest-bearing deposits. 

