jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2023_Q1

JPMorgan Chase Expands Sustainable-Growth Team

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is expanding its private-equity investment team focused on sustainable-growth equity
opportunities.                                                          
The New York bank recently appointed Alex Bell, who has nearly two decades of private-equity experience,
as a partner on the sustainable-investment team within its J.P. Morgan Private Capital group. Mr. Bell joins
from Tikehau Capital, where he spent about a year as head of the firm's North American private-equity
climate practice.                                                       
Before Tikehau, Mr. Bell spent more than four years at Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, where he
helped start a 500 million Canadian dollar (roughly $366 million) platform. The strategy invests in late-stage
venture and early growth private-equity opportunities in energy transition, sustainable food and agriculture
and industrial decarbonization.                                         
JPMorgan's hiring of Mr. Bell, who is Hispanic, adds to one of the more diverse leadership teams in the
growth-equity industry. The two co-heads of the bank's sustainable growth equity team, Osei Van Horne and
Tanya Barnes, are both Black.                                           
The bank set up the sustainable-growth team in January 2022 and said it would anchor its first sustainability
investment strategy with a capital commitment of as much as $150 million, describing it as one of its largest
commitments to an alternative-investment strategy. JPMorgan's alternative-investment arm managed $211
billion as of December in strategies such as private equity and credit, hedge funds and real assets.
Jamie Dimon, the bank's chairman and chief executive, named climate change and inequality as two critical
issues as the bank in 2021 announced plans to finance and facilitate $2.5 trillion of investments over 10 years
to address climate change and sustainable-development needs.            
"The first area that is of particular interest to us is around climate-technology investing, particularly around
decarbonizing industrials and heavy industries," Mr. Van Horne said. "Just to decarbonize the real estate,
industrials, transportation and agriculture industries, which are responsible for 80% of [greenhouse-gas]
emissions, that is a $1.8 trillion market opportunity."                 
The sustainable-growth team has made two investments so far. It led a $200 million investment in Arcadia
Power Inc., a technology company aimed at fighting climate change, and a $42 million investment in
MineSense Technologies Ltd., a startup looking to improve carbon levels across the metals-mining industry.
Investments geared to improving the environment, social conditions or corporate governance, ESG for short,
have broad support among institutional investors. One recent survey showed that 93% of such investors said
they would walk away from an investment if it posed an ESG concern, and 50% cited better performance as a
key reason to incorporate ESG elements in investing, according to the poll from consulting firm Bain & Co.
and the Institutional Limited Partners Association.                     
Other big banks are also looking to expand their reach into sustainability. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s
asset-management arm last year made a $100 million growth investment in Recover Textile Systems SL, a
company focused on sustainable fashion.                                 
Some investors and limited partners have expressed concerns regarding the difficulties of measuring
outcomes and goals for sustainable investing. The search for more clarity has driven investments in
companies like EcoVadis SAS, which provides ESG ratings and benchmarking for businesses.
"We've really invested a lot in measuring both the carbon profile as well as the ESG-related characteristics of
our investments," Ms. Barnes said, to address apprehensions around quantifying environmental and social
impacts.                                                                
"We've worked with our own internal experts as well as gotten third parties to help us verify all the data that
we're sharing out with our partners," added Ms. Barnes, who joined JPMorgan last year from Blackstone Inc.,
where she led the private-equity firm's impact-investing platform.      

JPMorgan Bans Usage of OpenAI Chatbot

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is restricting employees from using ChatGPT, according to a person familiar with the
matter.                                                                 
The bank didn't curb usage of the popular artificial-intelligence chatbot because of any particular incident, the
person said. It couldn't be determined how many employees were using the chatbot or for what functions they
were using it.                                                          
ChatGPT has grown increasingly popular since the startup OpenAI released it in November, crossing a
million users a few days after its launch. People have used the chatbot to automate tasks at work and school,
raising questions about how AI could replace some white-collar jobs. However, ChatGPT isn't always reliable
because it sometimes responds to prompts with misinformation or wrong answers.
In addition to JPMorgan, other organizations have also blocked access to ChatGPT. Last week, Verizon
Communications Inc. barred the chatbot from its corporate systems, saying it could lose ownership of
customer information or source code that its employees typed into ChatGPT.
New York City public schools in January banned the chatbot from its internet networks and school devices.
Workers at some companies have been using ChatGPT to write emails and research topics. Some of the
employees say the chatbot helps them work faster while others are trying to avoid being left behind as
technology evolves.                                                     
Some tech companies have raced to launch similar products after OpenAI released ChatGPT. Earlier this
month, Google rolled out a conversational AI service, Bard, to testers as the company tries to keep up with
OpenAI.                                                                 
Microsoft Corp., which has invested billions of dollars in OpenAI, unveiled an upgraded Bing search engine
using ChatGPT's technology. Users reported the search engine, which also functions as a chatbot,
responded to questions with sometimes disturbing answers.               
```