goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2023_Q1

          Buybacks Set Pace for Record --- Repurchases among S&P 500 companies are projected to top $1 trillion for
          first time .................................................................................................................................................................... 4
          
          Big Investor Directs Goldman's New Consumer-Lending Push ............................................................................... 7
          ' Buy Now, Pay Later ' Model Is Facing a Crisis ....................................................................................................... 9
          
          Consumer Banking Foray Turns Costly for Goldman............................................................................................. 11


          Buybacks Set Pace for Record --- Repurchases among S&P 500 companies are projected to top $1
          trillion for first time                                                 
          Among the biggest share repurchase announcements have been Chevron Corp.'s $75 billion buyback
          program, the $40 billion plan of Facebook parent Meta Platforms Inc. and Goldman Sachs Gro up Inc.'s $30
          billion authorization.                                                  

          Big Investor Directs Goldman's New Consumer-Lending Push                
          A billionaire entrepreneur who owns more of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. than Chief Executive David Solomon
          is leading an effort to refresh the Wall Street stalwart's Main Street lending ambitions.
          Goldman is shrinking Marcus, its homegrown consumer-banking business. But it is doubling down on
          GreenSky, a home-improvement lender it bought last year over the objection of some senior executives.
          At the center of the expansion is GreenSky co-founder David Zalik, an Atlanta entrepreneur who became a
          Goldman partner and one of its largest individual shareholders in the deal.
          GreenSky employees were largely spared recent layoffs that hit other parts of the Goldman consumer
          operation hard, people familiar with the matter said. While Marcus is getting out of the business of making
          personal loans, one of its original consumer offerings, GreenSky is hunting for borrowers. It is preparing to roll
          out new credit offerings, including financing plans for homeowners looking to install solar panels, the people
          said.                                                                   
          The stakes are high for Mr. Solomon, who is trying to assure investors that Goldman is headed in the right
          direction. Under his leadership, the bank has realigned itself to focus on businesses like wealth and asset
          management that generate steady fees regardless of market conditions.   
          GreenSky is another priority, Mr. Solomon has said. "We think GreenSky is a good business that can be
          accretive," or expected to boost earnings, he told analysts last month. 
          
          Yet the deal has had its doubters. Some deputies advised Mr. Solomon against buying GreenSky in 2019,
          people familiar with the matter said. He pounced when another bidder emerged, according to the people
          familiar and a regulatory filing.                                       
          Mr. Zalik and others are still ironing out exactly how GreenSky fits inside Goldman. The bank tried, and failed,
          to sell a GreenSky unit that financed cosmetic surgery and other elective medical procedures last year,
          people familiar with the matter said. It wants to focus on GreenSky's business of lending to mostly
          creditworthy homeowners.                                                
          Executives are exploring ways to pitch Goldman's transaction-banking services to the more than 10,000
          contractors and other companies that offer GreenSky loans to consumers, according to people familiar with
          the matter. Some business owners could also be pitched wealth-management services, they said.
          One of Atlanta's richest men, Mr. Zalik, 49 years old, stands apart from the Ivy Leaguers and MBAs that
          populate Goldman.                                                       
          The son of a math professor, Mr. Zalik skipped high school to enroll at Auburn University just shy of his 14th
          birthday but dropped out after starting his first company. He went on to launch ventures in technology, real
          estate and banking before co-founding GreenSky in 2006.                 
          Home-improvement loans came first. GreenSky recruited retailers such as Home Depot Inc. to offer financing
          for shoppers looking to renovate a kitchen or install new windows. By 2018, it was making $1 billion in loans
          per quarter, funded by a small group of regional banks. And it was profitable, a rare feat for an online lender
          at the time.                                                            
          A 2018 initial public offering, arranged in part by Goldman, valued GreenSky at about $4 billion. Mr. Zalik sold
          $384 million of stock in the offering and was left controlling a little less than half of the company. He bought a
          164-foot yacht, Ocean Z, that he uses, according to people familiar with the matter, to travel to an enclave in
          the Bahamas where both he and Mr. Solomon have homes.                   
          
          Soon though, investors soured on GreenSky. Banks pulled back from funding its loans and the company
          started missing Wall Street's expectations. In 2019, GreenSky started exploring a potential sale.
          Goldman, on the hunt for deals to increase Marcus's user base, took notice. But some executives had their
          doubts after reviewing the company's prospects, according to people familiar with the matter.
          Pitching deposit accounts or other Marcus products to GreenSky borrowers wouldn't be easy, they argued,
          because customers apply for their loans through third parties. The high price Mr. Zalik wanted for the
          company was another problem, they told Mr. Solomon.                     
          
          Goldman offered to buy GreenSky in late 2019 for $7 per share, or roughly $1.3 billion, in cash, according to
          a regulatory filing, before merger talks ended a few months later.      
          The sale effort went dormant until mid-2021. Goldman came back to the table, and talks heated up after
          private-equity firm Apollo Global Management Inc. made a bid, people familiar with the matter said. Mr. Zalik
          told Mr. Solomon GreenSky was near a deal and Goldman needed to act fast if it was still interested,
          according to a regulatory filing.                                       
          Mr. Solomon and Stephanie Cohen, then Goldman's global co-head of consumer and wealth management,
          wanted to show momentum in the consumer business, according to people familiar with the matter. The
          company upped its prior offer to about $12 per share, or roughly $2.2 billion.
          Mr. Zalik agreed to forgo hundreds of millions of dollars that would be due to him under a tax-receivable
          agreement and to forfeit Goldman shares worth about $120 million if he quits before the second anniversary
          of the deal closing.                                                    
          The two companies announced the deal in September 2021. It closed in March 2022 at a final price tag of
          about $1.7 billion due to a decline in Goldman's stock price.           
          
          Almost immediately, Goldman put GreenSky's healthcare-finance unit up for sale, according to people familiar
          with the matter. Goldman executives were concerned about the reputational risk of being involved with a
          business that finances cosmetic surgeries, some of the people said. The loans, which accounted for a small
          share of GreenSky's volume in 2021, attracted less creditworthy borrowers, the people said. Goldman pulled
          the offering, following lackluster interest.                            
          In October, Goldman announced a sweeping reorganization that largely dismantled the consumer business.
          The bank, Mr. Solomon told analysts, had tried to do too much, too fast.
          GreenSky is now part of Goldman's Platform Solutions business, which also houses its Apple Card
          partnership. The bank recently disclosed that the unit has lost billions of dollars since 2020.

          'Buy Now, Pay Later' Model Is Facing a Crisis                           
          Last Tuesday was a rough day for Goldman Sachs. The share price fell 6 percent after the Wall Street giant
          reported its worst earnings miss in a decade. On a call that morning, analysts peppered David Solomon, the
          bank's C.E.O., with questions about its consumer banking strategy, and about one unit in particular,
          GreenSky.                                                               
          Goldman closed its $2.2 billion acquisition of GreenSky, a pioneer in the ''buy now, pay later'' (B.N.P.L.)
          lending sector, in March, calling it a key piece in its strategy to build ''the consumer banking platform of the
          future.'' It flew under the radar until last quarter, the first in which Goldman broke out earnings for its ''platform
          solutions'' business unit, which includes GreenSky. The picture wasn't pretty. Revenues were up, but the
          division lost $1.66 billion in 2022.                                    
          Goldman's troubles with GreenSky are indicative of a cloud hanging over the sector. B.N.P.L. was one of the
          fastest-growing areas in financial technology for years, spawning Europe's most valuable start-up, Klarna,
          and promising to revolutionize how we consume and how banks could reach tech-savvy new market
          segments. The growth should continue; according to Worldpay, B.N.P.L. accounted for 3.8 percent of North
          American e-commerce transactions in 2021 and is projected to grow to 8.5 percent by 2025.
          But what once seemed like attractive economics have been upended. B.N.P.L. providers rely on loans for the
          money that they lend to customers for free, and with rising interest rates, those loans have become more
          expensive. Passing higher costs onto customers may be difficult: Those who like the idea of paying for a
          jacket or a dishwasher in installments may not be willing to pay extra for the privilege.
          The industry is now facing an existential crisis, as profits remain elusive, valuations plummet, competition
          increases and regulators ask tough questions about the lending practices behind B.N.P.L.
          In Goldman's case, GreenSky targets customers with high credit scores who are paying for home
          improvement projects rather than small-ticket items, a spokesperson said.
          Goldman says it's committed to GreenSky, but, as it disclosed last week, the losses are piling up. It hopes
          B.N.P.L. will draw in new customers, but so far it's not driving profits that so many banks and tech firms are
          hunting these days.                                                     

          Consumer Banking Foray Turns Costly for Goldman                         
          Goldman Sachs will take a big hit from its ill-fated move into consumer banking, even as its other businesses
          weaken amid an economic slowdown.                                       
          Goldman Sachs is paying for its misbegotten foray into consumer banking.
          Six years ago, Wall Street's most elite investment bank made a big pitch to the little guy, rolling out credit
          cards, high-interest accounts and loans. On Friday, the bank announced that it had lost slightly more than $3
          billion tied to that business since December 2020.                      
          It's the latest in a mounting pile of woes for Goldman, which is contending with an economic slowdown that
          has hurt its traditional investment banking business, at the same time that the changes instituted by David M.
          Solomon, who took over as chief executive in 2018, have caused upheaval inside the bank.
          The announcement on Friday followed a major restructuring that Mr. Solomon unveiled in October as part of
          his efforts to streamline the bank's culture and practices, and to better orient the firm toward a future in which
          technology is likely to sap the ability of big banks to make money as intermediaries.
          
          The reorganization involved combining one part of its consumer banking business, including its online bank
          Marcus, with an asset and wealth management unit. A second part of the consumer business -- including a
          credit card partnership with Apple -- was folded into a newly created unit. Its bread-and-butter investment
          banking and trading businesses were merged into a third unit.           
          Goldman's retail banking operation has been foundering for some time, but it's hardly the only challenge
          facing the bank. For the past few years, Goldman has dealt with uneven earnings and departures of top
          executives, some of whom were frustrated with Mr. Solomon's leadership style. This week, it let go of 3,200
          bankers, its largest round of layoffs since the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.
          Tony Fratto, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, characterized the job cuts as a mix of slimming down in the
          face of slowing corporate deal making, a retrenchment in the firm's consumer ambitions and the ordinary
          culling of low-performing staff.                                        
          The fortunes of many Wall Street banks have swung widely in recent years. Big U.S. banks benefited from an
          easing of restrictions during the Trump administration. And in the early part of the coronavirus pandemic,
          volatile markets (which help trading) and government bailouts and easy monetary policy (which encouraged
          consumer spending and corporate activity) enabled many to turn record profits.
          The frenzy, which included record deal-making activity in 2020 and 2021, came to a halt last year, largely as
          a result of the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases.              
          JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest bank by assets, reported a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit on
          Friday, but said investment banking revenue plunged 57 percent as big companies went into retrenchment
          mode.                                                                   
          The combination of high interest rates and fast inflation has hit Goldman especially hard because of the
          slowdown in its most profitable businesses. In sales and trading, Goldman's revenue last quarter shrank
          roughly twice as fast as that of its peers, according to estimates from Credit Suisse. And the business of
          advising companies on initial public offerings and mergers tapered off, strangling a big source of revenue for
          the bank.                                                               
          
          Though Goldman maintained its place among peers as the leader in advising companies in 2022, the global
          revenue it brought in from deals fell to $4.2 billion from $4.8 billion in 2021 -- a record year for deal-making,
          according to Dealogic. Its equity capital markets business felt a far bigger sting, bringing in $323 million in the
          United States last year, much less than the $2.5 billion it brought in a year earlier.
          On Friday, Goldman revised its financial results, going back to 2020. For the first nine months of 2022, the
          new unit, called platform solutions, lost $1.2 billion, with more than half that loss in the third quarter alone,
          Goldman said in a securities filing. Its main trading and banking businesses made nearly $12 billion,