first_citizens_bancshares,_inc_2023_Q1

First Citizens Buys Silicon Valley Bank ................................................................................................................... 5
Family-Run Bank to Buy SVB In a Government-Backed Deal ................................................................................. 8

First Citizens Bancshares Inc., one of the nation's largest regional banks, is buying large pieces of Silicon
Valley Bank more than two weeks after the lender's collapse sent tremors through the banking system.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said First Citizens is acquiring all of Silicon Valley Bank's deposits,
loans and branches, which opened Monday morning under the new ownership.
The purchase includes $56.5 billion in deposits and about $72 billion of SVB's loans at a discount of $16.5
billion. Some $90 billion of SVB's securities will remain in receivership.
Regulators took control of Santa Clara, Calif.-based SVB on March 10. The collapse sparked a panic that led
to the weekend failure of Signature Bank and a dramatic intervention by financial regulators aimed at easing
fears that depositors would flee smaller lenders.                       
The sale represents a milestone in regulatory efforts to clean up after two of the largest bank failures in
history, at a time when investors are on edge about the health of the global financial system. Lawmakers are
set to begin two days of hearings on the failures, beginning Tuesday in the Senate Banking Committee. A
second hearing is set for Wednesday in the House.                       
Shares of First Citizens surged more than 50% on Monday. Shares of other regional banks including First
Republic Bank, PacWest Bancorp and WesternAlliance Bancorp were also higher.

First Citizens, based in Raleigh, N.C., was the 30th-largest U.S. bank as of Dec. 31, 2022, with $109 billion in
assets, according to the Federal Reserve. Monday's deal puts the lender in the top 25 U.S. banks in terms of
assets.                                                                 
The FDIC agreed to share any of First Citizens' losses or potential gains on SVB's commercial loans. Overall,
the FDIC estimated the failure of SVB will cost a federal insurance fund it oversees about $20 billion, or
roughly 10% of the bank's assets before its failure.                    
"We look forward to building relationships with our new customers and positioning our company for continued
success as we affirm our commitment to support the integrity of our nation's banking system," First Citizens
Chief Executive Frank Holding Jr. said in a news release.               
The bank has at least one thing going for it: It knows its way around troubled banks. During the financial crisis
of 2008, when lenders were failing left and right, it took on the deposits of Temecula Valley Bank in California
and Venture Bank in Washington. It did the same for Sun American Bank in Florida and United Western Bank
in Colorado. The SVB deal is its 22nd with federal agencies, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
"They were a frequent bidder" during the financial crisis, said John Popeo, a lawyer who helped sell failed
banks for the FDIC at the time and is now a partner at advisory firm the Gallatin Group. "I recall them having
a pretty good reputation."                                              
First Citizens isn't known for technology banking, the bread-and-butter business of SVB, but its headquarters
are at the center of a regional tech hub.                               

The bank has expanded rapidly in recent years, particularly in commercial banking. The SVB purchase will
give it a banking presence in California and a wealth-management business in the Northeast.
On top of the loss-sharing agreement, the FDIC will help finance the deal with a five-year, $35 billion loan.
The agency also is providing a $70 billion line of credit to help cover potential deposit flight.

"It looks to me like a pretty substantial support network around this transaction," said Alexander Rolfe, a
former FDIC official who is now a consultant. That could set a precedent for future deals, he said.

Banking regulators, which announced the deal late Sunday, had been looking for a buyer since seizing
control of the failed bank.                                             
First Citizens BancShares, a family-run bank in North Carolina that traces its history to the late 1800s, said on
Sunday that it would acquire Silicon Valley Bank, the California lender founded in the 1980s at the center of
the technology industry, whose rapid growth and sudden collapse this month sent shock waves across the
financial sector.                                                       
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized control of Silicon Valley Bank on March 10, after a run on
deposits left it insolvent, making it the country's largest bank failure since the 2008 financial crisis. The
F.D.I.C. had since been looking for a buyer for the bank, which was the country's 16th largest when it
collapsed.                                                              
The deal for the bank, renamed Silicon Valley Bridge Bank after the F.D.I.C. seized it, included the purchase
of about $72 billion in loans, at a discount of $16.5 billion, and the transfer of all the bank's deposits, worth
$56 billion. Roughly $90 billion in Silicon Valley Bank's securities and other assets were not included in the
sale, and remained in the F.D.I.C.'s control.                           
The discount applied to the loans could help set a benchmark for other banks seeking investment, said Mark
Jeffrey Flannery, a professor of finance at the University of Florida. ''Now they have an idea,'' he said. ''Yes,
it's bad, but it's not a complete train wreck. It's just very bad.''    
Silicon Valley Bank had roughly $175 billion in deposits before its collapse, an illustration of how extensive
the withdrawals were before regulators seized it. A test for First Citizens is whether it can maintain
relationships with the tech-heavy client base that Silicon Valley Bank cultivated.
''Perhaps the Silicon Valley V.C. dudes feel they're too cool for a North Carolina bank,'' wrote analysts at
Autonomous Research, who said they had been fielding questions from investors about the logic of the deal.
''Admittedly, there has been a strong amount of runoff from the legacy Silicon Valley Bank this quarter,'' Craig
Nix, the chief financial officer of First Citizens, said on a call with investors on Monday. ''However, it is our
intent to embrace the talents of our legacy SVB employees, embrace their business capabilities and then
reiterate to their clients that First Citizens has an unwavering focus on holistic client relationships.''
As part of the deal, the F.D.I.C. will receive rights linked to the stock of First Citizens, which could be worth up
to $500 million. The bank regulator estimated that the cost of Silicon Valley Bank's failure on the
government's deposit insurance fund would be $20 billion.               

First Citizens and the F.D.I.C. will share any losses on the loans included in the transaction, an arrangement
that is often featured in sales of failed banks. For example, the F.D.I.C. agreed to reimburse First Citizens for
half of any losses above $5 billion on the portfolio of commercial loans transferred in the deal.
Silicon Valley Bank's 17 former branches, in California and Massachusetts, opened under ownership of the
First Citizens umbrella on Monday.                                      

Silicon Valley Bank's former parent company, SVB Financial, filed for bankruptcy on March 17. It plans to run
a separate process to sell various units, including the investment manager SVB Capital and the brokerage
firm SVB Securities.