 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Market Risk and Interest Rate Sensitivity 

Market risk reflects the risk of economic loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. This risk of loss can be reflected in either diminished market values within the balance sheet or reduced current and potential net income. Synovus&#8217; most significant market risk is interest rate risk. This risk arises primarily from Synovus&#8217; core banking activities of extending loans and accepting deposits. 

Managing interest rate risk is a primary goal of the asset liability management function. Synovus attempts to achieve consistency in net interest income while limiting volatility arising from changes in interest rates. Synovus seeks to accomplish this goal by balancing the maturity and repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities along with the selective use of derivative instruments. The Company manages this exposure in accordance with policies that are established by ALCO and approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. ALCO meets periodically and has responsibility for developing asset liability management policies, reviewing the interest rate sensitivity of Synovus, and developing and implementing strategies to improve balance sheet structure and interest rate risk positioning. 

Synovus measures the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates through the use of simulation modeling. This effort involves assessing the Company's forecasted net interest income profile under various scenarios and over varying time horizons. The results of these simulations aid in measuring the Company's exposures and relative sensitivities, namely to changes in interest rates. The scenarios generally include numerous assumptions, including those related to changes in the balance sheet, interest rates, prepayment trends, and the repricing characteristics of non-contractual deposits. Such assumptions may change through time as a result of a host of factors, including changes in the balance sheet as well as the interest rate environment. The simulation modeling process is performed in a manner consistent with Synovus policies and procedures with results reviewed on an on-going basis by ALCO and the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Within this framework, Synovus has modeled its baseline net interest income forecast assuming a relatively flat interest rate environment with the federal funds rate at the Federal Reserve's current targeted range of 4.25% to 4.50% as of December 31, 2022 and the current prime rate of 7.50% as of December 31, 2022. Synovus has modeled the impact of an immediate change in market interest rates across the yield curve of 100 and 200 bps to determine the sensitivity of net interest income for the next twelve months. As illustrated in the table below, the net interest income sensitivity derived from this simulation suggests that net interest income is projected to increase by 6.4% and 3.1% if interest rates increased by 200 and 100 bps, respectively. Net interest income is projected to decrease by 3.5% and 7.5% if interest rates decreased by 100 and 200 bps, respectively. These results indicate that the Company has an asset sensitive position over the next year, benefiting net interest income if rates rise and decreasing net interest income if rates fall. 

##TABLE_START Table 27 - Twelve Month Net Interest Income Sensitivity Change in Interest Rates (in bps) Estimated Change in Net Interest Income As of December 31, 2022 2021 +200 6.4% 14.5% +100 3.1% 6.5% -100 (3.5)% N/A -200 (7.5)% N/A ##TABLE_END

While all of the above estimates are reflective of the general interest rate sensitivity of Synovus, local market conditions, the realized growth and remixing of the balance sheet, as well as the broader macroeconomic environment could all have a significant impact on the both the sensitivity and realized level of net interest income. 

In addition to assessing net interest income sensitivities, we also perform simulation analyses to assess the sensitivity of our Economic Value of Equity (EVE) relative to changes in market interest rates. EVE is measured based on the discounted present values of assets, liabilities, and derivatives cash flows. Management uses EVE sensitivity as an additional means of measuring interest rate and incorporates this form of analysis within its governance and limits framework. 

Synovus is also subject to market risk in certain of its fee income business lines. Financial management services revenue, which include trust, brokerage, and asset management fees, can be affected by risk in the securities markets, primarily the equity securities market. A significant portion of the fees in this unit are determined based upon a percentage of asset values. Weaker securities markets and lower equity values have an adverse impact on the fees generated by these operations. Trading account assets, maintained to facilitate brokerage client activity, are also subject to market risk; however, trading activities are limited and subject to risk policy limits. Additionally, Synovus utilizes various tools to measure and manage price risk in its trading portfolio. 

Mortgage banking income is also subject to market risk. Mortgage loan originations are sensitive to levels of mortgage interest rates and therefore, mortgage banking income can be negatively impacted during a period of rising interest rates. The extension of commitments to clients to fund mortgage loans also subjects Synovus to market risk. This risk is primarily created by the time periods between making the commitment, closing, and delivering the loan. Synovus seeks to minimize its exposure by utilizing various risk management tools, including forward sales commitments and other hedges. 

Derivative Instruments for Interest Rate Risk Management 

Synovus utilizes derivative instruments to manage its exposure to various types of structural interest rate risks by executing end-user derivative transactions designated as hedges. Hedging relationships may be designated as either a cash flow hedge, which mitigates risk exposure to the variability of future cash flows or other forecasted transactions, or a fair value hedge, which mitigates risk exposure to adverse changes in the fair market value of a fixed rate asset or liability due to changes in market interest rates. 

As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Synovus had $5.25 billion and $3.60 billion, respectively, in notional amounts outstanding of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedging instruments to hedge its exposure to contractually specified interest rate risk associated with floating rate loans. 

As of December 31, 2022, Synovus had $2.23 billion in notional amounts outstanding of receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedging instruments to hedge its exposure to the change in the fair value due to fluctuations in market interest rates for outstanding fixed-rate long-term debt and interest-bearing deposits. 

LIBOR Transition 

On March 5, 2021, the FCA confirmed that all LIBOR settings would either cease to be provided by any administrator or no longer be representative immediately after June 30, 2023 for all remaining US dollar settings. 

The ARRC proposed SOFR as its preferred rate alternative to LIBOR and proposed a paced market transition plan to SOFR from LIBOR. Organizations are currently working on industry-wide and company-specific transition plans related to derivatives and cash markets exposed to LIBOR. As noted within "Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Report, Synovus holds instruments that may be impacted by the discontinuance of LIBOR, which include floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and hedges, and other financial instruments. Synovus established a cross-functional LIBOR transition working group with representation from all business lines, support and control functions, and legal counsel that has 1) assessed the Company's current exposure to LIBOR indexed instruments and the data, systems and processes that were impacted and have been changed as a result; 2) established a detailed implementation plan; 3) formulated communications and learning activities to support clients and colleagues; and 4) developed a formal governance structure for the transition. For the last several years, loan agreement provisions for new and renewed loans included LIBOR fallback language to ensure transition from LIBOR when such transition occurs. All direct exposures resulting from existing financial contracts that mature after 2022 have been inventoried and are monitored on an ongoing basis. The Company discontinued the use of LIBOR as of December 31, 2021, with limited exceptions as permitted by regulatory guidance or internal policies. Synovus has expanded its product offerings and currently offers multiple alternative reference rates to clients including SOFR, BSBY, and Prime indices. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had approximately $10 billion in loans tied to LIBOR that mature after June 30, 2023. Remediation activities are underway to modify or transition existing exposures to the applicable Federal Reserve Board selected replacement rate or to convert the rate under existing fallback language, including the use of the Adjustable Interest (LIBOR) Act, enacted in March 2022, and other relevant legislation. 

