 ITEM 1A. &#8211; RISK FACTORS 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in "Part I - Item IA - Risk Factors&#8221; of Synovus' 2022 Form 10-K which could materially affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or future results. Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or the trading price of our securities. 

Other than the risk factor set forth below, there are no material changes during the period covered by this Report to the risk factors previously disclosed in Synovus' 2022 Form 10-K. 

Recent negative developments in the banking industry could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and results of operations. 

The recent bank failures and related negative media attention have generated significant market trading volatility among publicly traded bank holding companies and, in particular, regional banks like Synovus. These developments have negatively impacted client confidence in regional banks, which could prompt clients to maintain their deposits with larger financial institutions. Further, competition for deposits has increased in recent periods, and the cost of funding has similarly increased, putting pressure on our net interest margin. If we were required to sell a portion of our securities or loan portfolios to address liquidity needs, we may incur losses as a result of the negative impact of rising interest rates on the value of our securities portfolio, which could negatively affect our earnings and our capital. If we were required to raise additional capital in the current environment, any such capital raise may be on unfavorable terms, thereby negatively impacting book value and profitability. While we have taken actions to improve our funding, there is no guarantee that such actions will be successful or sufficient in the event of sudden liquidity needs. 

We also anticipate increased regulatory scrutiny &#8211; in the course of routine examinations and otherwise &#8211; and new regulations directed towards banks of similar size to Synovus Bank, designed to address the recent negative developments in the banking industry, all of which may increase our costs of doing business and reduce our profitability. Among other things, there may be an increased focus by both regulators and investors on deposit composition, the level of uninsured deposits, the level of unrealized losses in either available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities portfolios, contingent liquidity, CRE loan composition and concentration, capital position and general oversight and internal control structures regarding the foregoing. This could impact our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and may result in changes to our balance sheet position which could, in turn, negatively impact our profitability. 

