 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, except as described below. 

The recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19"), or other such epidemic, pandemic, or outbreak of a highly contagious disease, occurring in the United States or in the geographies in which we conduct operations could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s business operations, asset valuations, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Old National&#8217;s business is dependent upon the willingness and ability of our customers to conduct banking and other financial transactions. The recent COVID-19 outbreak, or other highly contagious or infectious disease, could negatively impact the ability of our employees and customers to conduct such transactions and disrupt the business activities and operations of Old National&#8217;s customers in the geographic areas in which Old National operates. While the spread of the COVID-19 virus has minimally impacted Old National&#8217;s operations as of March 31, 2020, we may experience temporary closures of Old National&#8217;s offices and/or suspension of certain services. At this time, it is unknown how long the COVID-19 pandemic will last, or when restrictions on individuals and businesses will be lifted and businesses and their employees will be able to resume normal activities. Further, additional information may emerge regarding the severity of COVID-19 and additional actions may be taken by federal, state, and local governments to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact. Sustained disruption to Old National&#8217;s operations are likely 

to negatively impact Old National&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding Old National&#8217;s contingency plans and other safeguards against pandemics or another contagious disease, the spread of COVID-19 could also negatively impact the availability of Old National&#8217;s personnel who are necessary to conduct Old National&#8217;s business operations, as well as potentially impact the business and operations of Old National&#8217;s third party service providers who perform critical services for Old National. If the response to contain COVID-19, or another highly infectious or contagious disease, is unsuccessful, Old National could experience a material adverse effect on our business operations, asset valuations, financial condition, and results of operations. Material adverse impacts may include all or a combination of valuation impairments on Old National's intangible assets, investments, loans, loan servicing rights, deferred tax assets, or counter-party risk derivatives. 

Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Old National&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. 

Old National&#8217;s earnings depend substantially on Old National&#8217;s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates Old National earns on loans, securities and other earning assets and (ii) the interest rates Old National pays on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond Old National&#8217;s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. If market interest rates rise, Old National will have competitive pressures to increase the rates that Old National pays on deposits, which could result in a decrease of Old National&#8217;s net interest income. If market interest rates decline, Old National could experience fixed-rate loan prepayments and higher investment portfolio cash flows, resulting in a lower yield on earning assets. Old National&#8217;s earnings can also be impacted by the spread between short-term and long-term market interest rates. 

Following the COVID-19 and during the first quarter of 2020, market interest rates have declined significantly. The 10-year Treasury bond fell below 1.00% on March 3, 2020 for the first time and the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the target federal funds rate by 150 basis points to 0.00% to 0.25%. Additionally, the Federal Reserve has announced it will take the following actions: 

&#8226; purchase U.S. Treasury bills; 

&#8226; initiate overnight repurchase agreement operations; 

&#8226; reinvest principal received on the Federal Reserve&#8217;s securities portfolio; and 

&#8226; reduced the interest paid on excess bank reserves held by the Federal Reserve from 1.60% to 1.10%. 

These actions may materially and adversely affect Old National&#8217;s financial condition and results of operations as well as negatively impact Old National&#8217;s customers, theirs and Old National&#8217;s respective suppliers, vendors, processors, and third party service providers. 

Economic conditions have affected and could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profits. 

Old National&#8217;s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that Old National offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where Old National operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, terrorist acts, or a combination of these or other factors. 

An economic downturn or sustained, high unemployment levels, and stock market volatility may negatively impact our operating results and have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans increasing the risk of loan defaults and losses. If the forecasts of economic conditions and other economic predictions are not accurate, we may face challenges in accurately estimating the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Expectations of negative market and economic conditions will be reflected in the allowances for credit losses for loans and debt securities to the estimated extent they will impact the credit losses of new and existing loans and debt securities over their remaining lives. The provision for credit losses will report the entire increased credit loss expectations over the remaining lives of the loans and debt securities in the period in which the change in expectation arises. Further, because of the impact of such increased credit losses on earnings and capital our ability to make loans and pay dividends may be substantially diminished. 

Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models. 

The processes that we use to estimate probable credit losses and to measure the fair value of assets carried on the balance sheet at fair value, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models are complex and reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Although we have processes and procedures in place governing internal valuation models and their testing and calibration, such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Different assumptions could have resulted in significant changes in valuation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

If Old National&#8217;s actual credit losses for loans or debt securities exceed Old National&#8217;s allowance for credit losses for loans or debt securities, Old National&#8217;s net income will decrease. Also, future additions to Old National&#8217;s allowance for credit losses will reduce Old National&#8217;s future earnings. 

Old National&#8217;s business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. As with most financial institutions, we maintain allowances for credit losses for loans and debt securities to provide for defaults and nonperformance, which represent an estimate of expected losses over the remaining contractual lives of the loan and debt security portfolios. This estimate is the result of our continuing evaluation of specific credit risks and loss experience, current loan and debt security portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, industry concentrations, reasonable and supportable forecasts for future conditions, and other factors that may indicate losses. The determination of the appropriate levels of the allowances for loan and debt security credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Generally, our nonperforming loans and other real estate owned reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers and weaknesses in the economies of the markets we serve. The allowances may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future allowance for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 

