 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and updated in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section of the Company&#8217;s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2020, except as described below. 

Old National Bank&#8217;s active participation in the PPP, or in other relief programs, may expose us to credit losses as well as litigation and compliance risk. 

To support our customers, businesses, and communities, Old National Bank is an active participant in the PPP. Old National Bank began accepting applications from qualified borrowers on April 3, 2020 and as of June 30, 2020 over 9,200 applications have been processed and approved, representing $1.538 billion in funding to new and existing clients through the PPP. Old National Bank&#8217;s participation in the PPP, and participation in any other relief programs now or in the future, including those under the CARES Act, exposes us to certain credit, compliance, and other risks. 

Among other regulatory requirements, PPP loans are subject to forbearance of loan payments for a six-month period to the extent that loans are not eligible for forgiveness. If PPP borrowers fail to qualify for loan forgiveness, including by failing to use the funds appropriately in order to qualify for forgiveness under the program, Old 

National Bank has a greater risk of holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates. In addition, because of the short time period between the passing of the CARES Act and the implementation of the PPP, there is ambiguity in the laws, rules, and guidance regarding the operation of the PPP, which exposes us to risks relating to noncompliance with the PPP. There is risk that the SBA or another governmental entity could conclude there is a deficiency in the manner in which Old National Bank originated, funded, or serviced PPP loans, which may or may not be related to the ambiguity in the CARES Act or the rules and guidance promulgated by the SBA and the U.S. Department of the Treasury regarding the operation of the PPP. In the event of such deficiency, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty, or, if it has already made payment under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from us. 

Since the commencement of the PPP, several other banks have been subject to litigation regarding the process and procedures that such banks followed in accepting and processing applications for the PPP. We may be exposed to the risk of similar litigation, from both customers and non-customers that contacted Old National Bank regarding obtaining PPP loans with respect to the processes and procedures we used in processing applications for the PPP. If any such litigation is filed against us and is not resolved in a manner favorable to us, it may result in significant financial liability to us or adversely affect our reputation. In addition, litigation can be costly, regardless of outcome. Any financial liability, litigation costs, or reputational damage caused by PPP-related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

In addition, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny regarding Old National Bank&#8217;s processing of PPP applications or its origination or servicing of PPP loans. While the SBA has said that in many instances, banks may rely on the certifications of borrowers regarding their eligibility for PPP loans, Old National Bank does have several obligations under the PPP, and if the SBA found that Old National Bank did not meet those obligations, the remedies the SBA may seek against Old National Bank are unknown but may include not guarantying the PPP loans resulting in credit exposure to borrowers who may be unable to repay their loans. The PPP program may also attract significant interest from federal and state enforcement authorities, oversight agencies, regulators, and Congressional committees. State Attorneys General and other federal and state agencies may assert that they are not subject to the provisions of the CARES Act and the PPP regulations entitling Old National Bank to rely on borrower certifications, and take more aggressive action against us for alleged violations of the provisions governing Old National Bank&#8217;s participation in the PPP. 

