Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to JPMorgan Chase & Co., with headers, footers, and metadata removed, and enclosed within ``` markers as requested:

```
jpmorgan_chase_&_co_2023_Q2

JPMorgan, SEC Settle Message-Deletion Case
JPMorgan Chase's brokerage arm will pay $4 million in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission after the accidental deletion of 47 million electronic messages it was supposed to retain.
While trying to clear a backlog of communications dating to the 1970s, JPMorgan inadvertently wiped the
messages, the SEC said in an order published Thursday.                  
The deletion, which took place in 2019, violated rules requiring brokers to retain communications for three
years, the regulator said.                                              
JPMorgan's corporate compliance technology department was working on a project to delete old emails,
instant messages and Bloomberg messages but had difficulty deleting historical communications from the
1970s and 1980s, the SEC said.                                          
During troubleshooting, messages from 2018 that should have been kept were wiped after an outside
provider of archival services gave faulty information about the electronic protections the documents were
supposed to have, according to the regulator. The bank's legal discovery team discovered the mix-up several
months later, but the documents couldn't be recovered, the SEC said.    
JPMorgan "takes its record-keeping obligations seriously," a spokeswoman said. "We have taken steps to
enhance our process and procedures."                                    
The bank, which itself reported the incident in 2020, didn't admit or deny the allegations, according to the
order.                                                                  
The missing messages hampered regulatory investigations, according to the SEC. In 12 investigations,
including eight directly involving the SEC, JPMorgan was unable to produce communications that were
sought because they were no longer there, the regulator said.           
"Because the deleted records are unrecoverable, it is unknown -- and unknowable -- how the lost records
may have affected the regulatory investigations," the SEC said.         

JPMorgan Makes One of Biggest Bets Ever on Carbon Removal               
The biggest U.S. bank is making one of the biggest bets ever to remove carbon from the atmosphere as a
way to fight climate change.                                            
JPMorgan Chase has agreed to invest more than $200 million to purchase credits from several companies in
the nascent industry, company officials said. The money and JPMorgan's endorsement are a boost to
businesses that have removed only small amounts of carbon so far.       
JPMorgan is making the purchases to neutralize the bank's environmental footprint. It is also attempting to
score new business by becoming a leader in a burgeoning clean-energy industry. The bank helped carbon
removal startup Climeworks raise $650 million from investors last year and has fielded questions from big
corporate clients about carbon removal.                                 
"We're jumping in the pool all in," Brian DiMarino, JPMorgan's head of operational sustainability, said in an
interview. "This is us putting our weight and our capital behind something we believe is truly important to bring
to market now."                                                         
Carbon removal is gaining increasing attention as it becomes clear that the transition away from fossil fuels is
moving too slowly to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions enough to limit climate change. Scientists estimate
billions of tons of removal will be needed annually by midcentury to avoid the worst effects of global warming.
Critics say carbon removal could allow fossil-fuel producers to continue with business as usual.
As the largest U.S. bank, JPMorgan is also among the largest financiers of both fossil fuels and clean energy.
Its relationship with oil-and-gas companies has prompted criticism from climate activists. The bank also has
been criticized by Republicans for giving priority to environmental, social and corporate governance -- or ESG
-- factors. West Virginia banned JPMorgan from doing business with the state last year, arguing that ESG
amounted to a boycott on the state's coal industry. JPMorgan said the move was "disconnected from the
facts" and "anti-free market."                                          
The bank will purchase credits tied to the removal of 800,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide from several
startups including paying more than $20 million to Climeworks, a Swiss company that recently delivered the
industry's first verified carbon removals through a process called direct-air capture, which sucks carbon out of
the air using giant fans so it can be buried underground. Climeworks will remove 25,000 metric tons over nine
years.                                                                  
Getting support from a financial powerhouse is validating after much of the sector's initial support came from
technology companies, carbon-removal executives said.                   
"It's a big shot in the arm for us to go scale up our operations," said Peter Reinhardt, chief executive of
startup Charm Industrial, which turns plant waste into a carbon-rich liquid that can be injected underground.
Reinhardt said JPMorgan's purchases should help Charm raise money and reduce costs. The company has
removed about 6,000 tons to date.                                       
JPMorgan is buying nearly 30,000 tons of removal from Charm over five years.
The bank is also committing to match its operational emissions from directly consuming natural gas and other
fuels with equivalent carbon removals by 2030, one of the first such pledges by a major company.
JPMorgan is aiming to reduce those emissions 40% by 2030 from 2017 levels. Big companies use a
combination of emissions reduction and carbon removal to meet their climate goals.
Carbon-removal companies are attracting billions of dollars in government funding. The U.S. is expected to
announce the recipients of $3.5 billion in funding for direct-air capture hubs around the country this summer.
Climeworks has three applications in for that funding as part of a recent U.S. expansion, chief marketing
officer Julie Gosalvez said.                                            
Last year's Inflation Reduction Act includes tax credits for direct-air capture that Goldman Sachs analysts
estimate could cover nearly half the cost of certain projects.          
JPMorgan's commitment to fund about 800,000 tons of removal is the second-largest purchase in the
market's history, according to data provider CDR.fyi. It would neutralize the annual emissions of roughly
160,000 passenger cars.                                                 
In the sector's largest-ever deal, Microsoft said last week it would pay for about 2.8 million tons of removal
through a wood-chip-fired power station in Denmark operated by energy firm Orsted. When trees and plants
grow, they naturally absorb carbon. Capturing that carbon, then permanently storing it, is one form of carbon
removal.                                                                
By agreeing to pay years in advance, companies like JPMorgan and Microsoft hope to accelerate the
industry's growth. They are willing to pay hundreds of dollars per ton for each removal credit to get the
certainty that they are helping fight climate change. They also want to secure the credits they need to hit
emissions targets.                                                      
Removal credits can cost 100 times more than conventional carbon credits, some of which don't benefit the
planet. JPMorgan will still use some traditional credits, DiMarino said.
The bulk of JPMorgan's commitment -- about 450,000 tons -- is a preliminary 15-year agreement to purchase
from CO280, a startup. The company's removal plans are roughly similar to those of Orsted in that it aims to
capture carbon absorbed by plants when biomass is used in industrial processes. If CO280 fails, the bank will
pay for removal from other companies, DiMarino said.                    

JPMorgan's First Republic Merger Adds Up                                
[Financial Analysis and Commentary]                                     
Investors seem pleased with JPMorgan Chase's acquisition of First Republic, with its shares climbing 2.1% in
Monday's trading. Here is how they may be thinking about the numbers behind the deal.
The deal with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is complex, but it boils down to this: JPMorgan gets
$207.5 billion worth of assets, including securities and loans. This is money due to the bank. It took on $122
billion worth of deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and some other liabilities. This is money the
bank owes to others.                                                    
The difference between those two numbers is basically the available potential value of the deal to JPMorgan.
However, that is whittled down in a number of ways. For one, JPMorgan says the assets are worth $185.8
billion today, thanks to mark-to-market adjustments for things like movements in interest rates.
On the liability side, JPMorgan will get $50 billion in financing from the FDIC for five years. That adds to its
debts, even though it gets to wipe away the $5 billion in its own money deposited at First Republic.
JPMorgan also will pay $10.6 billion to the FDIC as part of the deal. Taxes take out a big chunk after that.
After some other possible adjustments, the end result is a gain of $2.6 billion for JPMorgan.
That gain in turn will be eroded by what JPMorgan expects to be about $2 billion in restructuring costs over
the next two years as it figures out how to integrate First Republic's employees, branches and technology.
After all is said and done, what will remain is what JPMorgan estimates will be roughly $500 million in
ongoing annual net income from First Republic's business.               
The ultimate benefit to the bank's return on equity -- a key metric tracked by investors -- is a bit more
complex. The question there is how much equity capital JPMorgan must retain against the added assets.
Banks are subject to regulatory capital requirements based on a risk weighting of their assets.
Here, JPMorgan's loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC is crucial. With the FDIC agreement to cover 80% of
losses on single-family residential mortgages and commercial loans, for seven years and five years,
respectively, JPMorgan says it will be able to give an overall risk weighting of about 25% to the assumed
assets.                                                                 
So JPMorgan's so-called common equity Tier 1 capital ratio will only go down by 0.4 percentage point as a
result of the deal, from the bank's estimate of 13.8% for the first quarter of 2023. That is in line with its 13.5%
target, suggesting the bank won't need to hold off on buybacks to accommodate this deal.
Of course, there may be other less quantifiable costs or benefits to JPMorgan. One key question is whether it
will be able to turn the acquired customers into lucrative wealth management relationships. For now,
investors have good reasons to expect the deal to benefit JPMorgan.     

JPMorgan's Epstein Ties Were Deeper Than Bank Has Said                  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. had ties to Jeffrey Epstein that ran deeper than the bank has acknowledged and
extended years beyond when it decided to close the convicted sex offender's accounts, according to people
familiar with the matter.                                               
Mary Erdoes, a top lieutenant to Chief Executive Jamie Dimon, made two trips to Epstein's townhouse on
Manhattan's Upper East Side, in 2011 and 2013, when Epstein still was a client of the bank, said the people
familiar with the matter. She exchanged dozens of emails with him and discussed sharing with him fees
related to a charitable fund the bank was considering launching, the people said.
John Duffy, who ran JPMorgan's U.S. private bank for the ultrarich, went to Epstein's townhouse for a
meeting in April 2013, the people said. One month later, the private bank renewed an authorization allowing
Epstein to borrow money against his accounts despite repeated warnings from compliance staffers about his
unusual banking practices.                                              
Justin Nelson, one of Epstein's bankers at JPMorgan, had about a half-dozen meetings at Epstein's
townhouse between 2014 and 2017, the people said. He also traveled to Epstein's ranch in New Mexico in
2016, the people said.                                                  
JPMorgan has said it closed Epstein's accounts in 2013. Ms. Erdoes has previously said through a JPMorgan
spokesman that the only time she remembered meeting Epstein was the day she fired him as a client of
JPMorgan's private bank. Ms. Erdoes declined to comment for this article.
Epstein was convicted of soliciting a minor for prostitution in 2008 and forced to register as a sex offender. He
was arrested in 2019, accused of orchestrating a scheme to traffic and sexually abuse girls.
The bank has denied knowing about Epstein's crimes and has sued one of its former executives, Jes Staley,
accusing him of misleading the bank about Epstein's character and conduct. Mr. Staley's lawyers have said
the allegations against him are baseless.                               
The new details show that JPMorgan was treating Epstein like a star client after his first conviction and
despite repeated warnings from its own employees. And after JPMorgan closed Epstein's accounts, bankers
kept meeting with him for years.                                        
A JPMorgan spokesman said the level of interaction with Epstein wasn't atypical for a client of a private bank.
Any meeting held with Epstein after 2013, the spokesman said, was regarding other JPMorgan bank clients
whom Epstein represented.                                               
Mr. Nelson declined to comment, the spokesman said. Mr. Duffy, who no longer works at the bank, didn't
respond to requests for comment.                                        
A pair of lawsuits filed against JPMorgan late last year in federal court in Manhattan have drawn fresh
attention to the bank's ties to Epstein, who died in 2019 in New York jail of what the city's medical examiner
said was a suicide. At the time, he was awaiting trial on sex-trafficking charges.
```
```