Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., with headers, footers, and metadata removed, and starting/ending with ```:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2023_Q2

U.S. Banks Back Out of Some Chinese IPOs                                
International investors have soured so much on Chinese initial public offerings that investment banks are
backing out of potential listings and even small deals have become a tough sell.
Goldman Sachs Group has given up several mandates for IPOs in Hong Kong this year, including deals for a
dermatology company and an online marketplace for pharmaceutical products, according to filings with the
city's stock exchange. Bank of America has left its role in the coming IPO of Growatt Technology, which
makes inverters for solar panels.                                       
Banks seldom relinquish IPO mandates after receiving them. The moves reflect how difficult the market is for
Chinese companies that want to go public on international stock exchanges. Nearly 90 companies have
active listing applications for the Hong Kong exchange's main board, according to official figures as of May
31. But falling stock prices, heightened political tensions between Washington and Beijing and China's
sputtering economic recovery have been turnoffs for many global investors.
Goldman chose to back away from the IPOs of YSB, a Chinese company that operates a pharmaceutical
marketplace for businesses, and Shanghai-based Cutia Therapeutics, which specializes in skin treatments.
The New York bank viewed the current market demand to be too weak for the listings to do well, according to
people familiar with the matter. In April, Goldman stepped back from its role as an overall coordinator in the
IPO of Beijing Fourth Paradigm Technology, an artificial-intelligence company that was added to an export
blacklist by the U.S. Commerce Department in March.                     
Goldman advised YSB and Cutia to wait until market conditions improve, the people said, but the companies
ultimately chose to push ahead. Cutia raised $59.4 million from a Hong Kong listing that priced last week. It
came in near the bottom of its price range. YSB is planning to launch a deal this week.

Apple Customers Complain About Goldman Accounts                         
Apple's savings account, a partnership with Goldman Sachs, launched in April to great fanfare. Some
customers say it has been hard to get their money out.                  
Nathan Thacker, who lives outside Atlanta, had been trying to transfer $1,700 from his Apple account to
JPMorgan Chase since May 15. Each time he called Goldman's customer service department, he said, he
was told to give it a few more days.                                    
The money arrived in his Chase account Thursday morning, he said, after The Wall Street Journal contacted
Goldman about his and other customers' experiences.                     
Others said they also had trouble transferring money from their new Apple accounts. Customer-service
representatives at Goldman, which holds the deposits, sometimes gave differing responses about what to do,
they said. Sometimes, their money appeared to have simply vanished, not showing up in their Apple account
or in the account they were trying to move it to.                       
Goldman said it couldn't comment on specific customers but added that "we take our obligation to protect our
customers' deposits very seriously."                                    
"The customer response to the new savings account for Apple Card users has been excellent and beyond our
expectations," the bank said in a statement. "While the vast majority of customers see no delays in
transferring their funds, in a limited number of cases, a user may experience a delayed transfer due to
processes in place designed to help protect their accounts."            
An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment.                               
The Apple savings account has attracted people searching for the same thing: yield. It pays a 4.15% interest
rate, riches compared with the current savings-account average of 0.25%, according to Bankrate.com.
Goldman also issues Apple's credit card, and consumers who want to open the savings accounts have to first
sign up for the credit card.                                            
For Apple, the new account is a way to expand the iPhone further into people's daily financial interactions,
keeping customers linked to its ecosystem. For Goldman, it is a way to build deposits.
The Wall Street titan has encountered challenges, including regulatory probes, when dealing with the
mundane tasks of servicing Main Street consumers. Goldman has been cutting back on its consumer lending
and earlier this year said it is "considering strategic alternatives" for the unit that includes its credit-card
partnership with Apple.                                                 

Powell McCormick Leaves Goldman                                         
Dina Powell McCormick, one of the most senior women on Wall Street and a former U.S. government official,
is leaving Goldman Sachs Group to join an investment and advisory firm run by former partners at the Wall
Street giant.                                                           
Powell McCormick will assume the newly created roles of vice chairman and president of global client
services at BDT & MSD Partners, the merchant bank run by former star Goldman bankers Byron Trott and
Gregg Lemkau, firm executives said. She will work with the firm's existing clients, consisting primarily of
company founders and wealthy families, and aim to expand its relationships with sovereign-wealth funds and
other institutional investors.                                          
At Goldman, Powell McCormick most recently served as global head of the sovereign business, where she
focused on strengthening the investment bank's ties with government-backed funds. She was also in charge
of Goldman's sustainability efforts, advising clients on climate-finance investments, and served on Goldman's
management and client and business standards committees.                
Born in Egypt, Powell McCormick, 49, spent more than a dozen years during the early part of her career
working in various U.S. government roles. She joined Goldman in 2007 but left in 2017 to become deputy
national security adviser for strategy under President Donald Trump. She rejoined Goldman in 2018.
She is the latest in a number of high-profile exits from Goldman under CEO David Solomon.

Banking & Finance: Apple Launches Savings Account                       
Apple Inc. joined the competition for bank deposits on Monday with the launch of a high-yield savings account
that pays an annual percentage yield of 4.15%.                          
The high-yield savings accounts, available in conjunction with Apple's credit card, are the technology
company's latest step into the financial-services space, which include an option to allow customers to "buy
now, pay later" on certain of its hardware products.                    
The company teamed up with Goldman Sachs Group to offer consumers those options, part of Apple's effort
to transform the iPhone into a digital wallet that can help keep consumers linked to the software ecosystem
behind its devices.                                                     
Though the 4.15% APY rate is higher than that of the standard savings account, a handful of online banks
offer rates as high as 5% APY, according to Bankrate. But popular high-yield savings products from Ally Bank
or Goldman's own Marcus offer lower rates than Apple's new accounts: 3.75% and 3.9%, respectively.

Ex-Executives of Outcome Health Found Guilty of Fraud at Medical-Ad Startup
CHICAGO -- A federal jury convicted three former executives of the once-highflying startup Outcome Health
on several charges that they ran a billion-dollar scheme that defrauded customers including major
pharmaceutical companies such as Novo Nordisk A/S as well as investors including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.                                                                    
The verdict caps the fall of an executive team led by Rishi Shah, who was close to Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker
and a budding star in Democratic circles before fraud was revealed in a Wall Street Journal article in 2017.
Such advertising wasn't a new business, but Outcome's fast growth attracted a roughly $500 million equity
investment in May 2017 at a $5.5 billion valuation from investors including Goldman, Google parent Alphabet
Inc., Pritzker Group Venture Capital and the investment firm of Laurene Powell Jobs.
Investors sued the company after the Journal revealed the fraud, and the case was settled when Mr. Shah
and Ms. Agarwal agreed to leave their executive roles and give back $159 million of the money they received
from the investment.
```