Here's the cleaned text file with only the content relating to HSBC, with titles, headers, footers, and other non-content elements removed:

```
Without delay, the bankers were all hired by HSBC Holdings, the lawsuit says.
First Citizens says the mass resignation was part of a broad plan by HSBC and a former top SVB banker to
steal a hugely profitable business that First Citizens had acquired through its purchase of SVB.
In a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, First Citizens sued HSBC for more than
$1 billion, alleging an illegal "scheme to plunder" one of SVB's core businesses that it says rightly belonged to
First Citizens.                                                         
                                                                                  
An HSBC spokeswoman declined to comment Tuesday.                        
The lawsuit says HSBC's plan stemmed from the British banking giant's purchase of the U.K. arm of SVB on
March 13 for just over $1. SVB had just collapsed, stoking a banking crisis that would roil markets on both
sides of the Atlantic. Days later, HSBC hired David Sabow, a former senior executive at SVB, the lawsuit
says. According to the lawsuit, Sabow devised a plan to recruit more than three dozen top bankers from the
collapsed SVB to HSBC.                                                  
Sabow told HSBC it could earn well over $1 billion in profits within five years if the plan worked, the lawsuit
says. Through HSBC, Sabow didn't respond to a request to comment.       
Then, on April 9, 42 employees resigned from First Citizens within 30 minutes, and were
immediately hired by HSBC, the lawsuit says. The lawsuit also accuses Sabow and other former SVB
bankers of stealing proprietary information that belonged to First Citizens.

HSBC's profit soared to a record in the first quarter, making the London banking giant one of the biggest
beneficiaries of the new era of higher interest rates and the rapid reopening of China.
The lender said profit nearly quadrupled from a year earlier to $10.3 billion in the first three months of 2023,
its highest quarterly tally on record, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. HSBC said it would pay its
first quarterly dividend since 2019 -- after suspending them during the pandemic -- and buy back up to $2
billion worth of shares.                                                
The dividend and buyback are likely to ease pressure on HSBC, Europe's largest bank by market value, after
a year-long attempt by its largest shareholder, Ping An Insurance of China, to restructure the bank in a way
that would isolate Asian operations from other units around the world.  
"Do I think it's sustainable? Yes I do," Chief Executive Noel Quinn told reporters of the bank's quarterly
performance. He added that profit rose across all major geographic regions and businesses. "This is broad
based."                                                                 
The bank's London-listed shares rose 3.5% in Tuesday trading.           
Pretax profit was boosted by two temporary factors: its recent acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank's U.K. unit
and renewed talks on the sale of its French retail business.            
                                                                                  
The bank booked a provisional $1.5 billion boost in profit as a result of its acquisition of the U.K. subsidiary of
collapsed lender Silicon Valley Bank, announced in March.               
Mr. Quinn said the bank was a natural fit as it gives HSBC more access to entrepreneurs in the emerging
technology and life-sciences sectors.                                   
HSBC took an accounting hit last year after it announced the planned sale of its French retail bank. But it was
recently forced to renegotiate the deal because rising interest rates had increased capital requirements for
the buyer, a company owned by the private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management.
On Tuesday, HSBC said that talks continue and that if the sale closes, it will be delayed. That led to a $2.1
billion reversal of the previous accounting charge.                     
                                                                                  
The bank said it also benefited from more lasting changes. Rising interest rates have enabled it to charge
borrowers more for loans.                                               
Net interest income hit $8.96 billion in the first quarter, driving revenues to over $20 billion, around two-thirds
higher than the first quarter of 2022.                                  
HSBC will hold its annual shareholder meeting Friday in England. Shareholders are set to vote on a
resolution that calls for HSBC to look regularly at structural changes, including a potential spinoff.
                                                                                  
Ping An has pushed for HSBC to restructure in a way that would isolate its Asian operations from other units,
a change that it says would lift earnings and the stock value. HSBC has resisted the move, arguing it would
undermine the bank's strategy of connecting businesses and regions around the world.

HSBC is based in London but earns most of its pretax profit in Asia, including in Hong Kong and mainland
China.                                                                  
The bank is in the middle of a revamp, shifting more resources to Asia while exiting or retrenching from key
markets in North America and parts of Europe.
```