Here is the cleaned text file with only the content relating to "first_citizens_bancshares,_inc_2023_Q2":

```
first_citizens_bancshares,_inc_2023_Q2

SVB Securities, the investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank, will be acquired in a
management buyout led by Jeff Leerink, the unit's founder and chief executive officer.
The deal is backed by funds managed by billionaire Seth Klarman's Baupost Group, Silicon Valley Bank's
former parent said on Sunday, confirming a Wall Street Journal report earlier this month. SVB Financial
Group, which used to own the technology-focused bank, has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings
since mid-March.                                                        
The bidder group will pay $55 million cash for SVB Securities, repay about $26 million in subordinated debt
and assume other liabilities, according to a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
The group will also give SVB Financial an equity instrument that could appreciate in value if the securities
business goes public in the future.                                     
The transaction, which could receive court approval by the end of this month, will see SVB Securities go back
to being called Leerink Partners. The Boston-based business was started as Leerink Swann in 1995, and is
known for its focus on the healthcare sector. Its founder continued to run the business after it was acquired by
SVB Financial in 2019.                                                  
Equity-research business MoffettNathanson will remain under SVB Financial and isn't part of the buyout, SVB
Financial said.                                                         

U.S. regulators seized Silicon Valley Bank, a separate SVB Financial unit, in March after it struggled to meet
heavy withdrawal requests from depositors who were spooked by its investment losses. The Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. shortly after arranged a sale of the failed bank's U.S. branches, accounts and loans to First
Citizens Bancshares.                                                    


The investment-banking business tied to Silicon Valley Bank is preparing a management buyout that has the
backing of Seth Klarman's hedge fund, Baupost Group, according to people familiar with the matter.
Management's bid for SVB Securities was the only one that emerged earlier this week during bankruptcy
proceedings for the former parent of Silicon Valley Bank, SVB Financial Group, the people said.

Silicon Valley Bank was a separate unit of SVB Financial Group. It failed in March after rising interest rates
triggered huge losses on its investments and it received more than $40 billion of deposit-withdrawal requests
in a single day. Regulators decided the bank couldn't continue to function and stepped in to seize it.
In late March, First Citizens Bank acquired large pieces of Silicon Valley Bank, including its deposits, loans
and branches.                                                           


First Citizens said it would buy most of what was left of Silicon Valley Bank in late March. It acquired billions
in SVB's deposits and loans, and hoped to leverage SVB's established relationships with businesses in
technology and other areas to expand its footprint.                     
In a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, First Citizens sued HSBC for more than
$1 billion, alleging an illegal "scheme to plunder" one of SVB's core businesses that it says rightly belonged to
First Citizens.                                                         

Two weeks later, on March 27, First Citizens, a big regional lender based in North Carolina, bought large
pieces of SVB. Then, on April 9, 42 employees resigned from First Citizens within 30 minutes, and were
immediately hired by HSBC, the lawsuit says. The lawsuit also accuses Sabow and other former SVB
bankers of stealing proprietary information that belonged to First Citizens.


First Citizens BancShares, a family-run bank in North Carolina, announced last Sunday that it was acquiring
Silicon Valley Bank, capping off a tumultuous month for the California lender whose collapse touched off a
wider banking crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation seized control of SVB and its assets on
March 10, after a run on deposits left it insolvent, and SVB filed for bankruptcy a week later. First Citizens'
deal with the F.D.I.C. to take over the bank involved the purchase of about $72 billion in loans at a $16.5
billion discount. First Citizens also took control of all of the bank's roughly $56 billion in deposits. But an
additional $90 billion in SVB's securities remain under the purview of the F.D.I.C. The collapse of SVB was
followed in short succession by two other bank failures. Credit Suisse, which was bought by its rival UBS,
Switzerland's largest bank, and Signature Bank. New York Community Bancorp later acquired substantially
all of the remaining deposits at Signature Bank.                        


FIRST CITIZENS BANCSHARES INC.                                          
```