Here is the cleaned text file with only content relating to Goldman Sachs and the table of contents preserved:

```
goldman_sachs_group,_inc.,_the_2024_Q2
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman Aims to Boost Efficiency With AI Tool --- The technology lets developers build more applications faster,
          CIO says................................................................................................................................................................... 2
          Goldman's Crypto Naysayer Isn't Tempted by Bitcoin Rally .................................................................................... 9
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 1 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          GoldmanAimstoBoostEfficiencyWithAITool---Thetechnologyletsdevelopersbuildmoreapplicationsfaster,CIOsays
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman Aims to Boost Efficiency With AI Tool --- The technology lets developers build more
          applications faster, CIO says                                           
          By Isabelle Bousquette                                                  
          680 words                                                               
          28 June 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B5                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          Goldman Sachs will finish rolling out its first generative artificial intelligence tool -- for code generation -- to
          thousands of developers across the company by the end of the month.     
          Chief Information Officer Marco Argenti said the company's approach to generative AI involved centralizing
          all proprietary uses of the technology on an internal platform, and restricting them elsewhere. "It might have
          slowed us down initially, but then we definitely gained a lot of velocity afterwards," Argenti said.
          "Taking this centralized approach obviously has pros and cons," he added. Argenti said he had to push back
          against those who wanted to move faster and contend with some frustration over the bank's decision to ban
          the use of Open-AI's ChatGPT within its walls, a step taken by other companies.
          CIOs across industries, facing pressure from chief executives and corporate boards to leverage generative
          AI, are stuck between moving fast enough to achieve competitive gains, but not so fast they leave
          themselves vulnerable to dangerous hiccups. A number of efforts remain in the pilot or proof-of-concept
          phase, although ideation is gradually moving to more implementation this year, said Chirag Dekate, a vice
          president analyst at research firm Gartner.                             
          Goldman's generative AI platform, known as the GSAI Platform, grew out of an existing machine-learning
          platform and is the single point of entry for all generative AI use at the company. Goldman's approach also
          included tapping partnerships with OpenAI-backer Microsoft to use GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models and Google
          for its Gemini model. The platform also uses open source models including Meta Platforms' Llama. The ability
          to switch between models for different use cases is a key benefit of the approach, Argenti said.
          Wall Street Journal owner News Corp has a content-licensing partnership with OpenAI.
          Critically, the internal platform also allows Goldman to fine-tune the models with its own internal data in a safe
          way and that complies with regulations. Argenti said controls are embedded to ensure that models aren't
          serving up data to employees who shouldn't have access to it, for example.
          Select Goldman employees can access the platform directly to interface with various models, and developers
          are using it to build custom applications on top of the models, such as a co-pilot assistant tool for investment
          bankers that searches a large body of public and proprietary documents to answer questions and extract
          analysis.                                                               
          The other benefit of the platform is being able to build more applications faster, Argenti said. Developers don't
          have to start from scratch with every application -- a co-pilot for asset managers can lean heavily on the
          co-pilot for investment bankers and all the safety guardrails are already built-in from the beginning.
          Argenti said the speed at which developers are building generative AI applications has shortened from
          months to weeks as a result. But at the same time, the company isn't rushing them into production.
                                                                                  
          "AI is a new thing," he said. "Safety and responsibility is absolutely our No. 1 priority."
          The need to safeguard data, remain compliant with existing data regulations and prepare for any new AI
          regulations are key factors that help determine the speed with which financial services adopt AI, said
          Gartner's Dekate. Financial services is one of the most regulated ecosystems, he added.
          Code generation is a common starting point for many entities because it is text-centric and provides clear,
          tangible efficiency gains, he said.                                     
                                                                                  
          Goldman's generative AI coding assistant, Microsoft's GitHub Copilot, is the firm's most scaled-out use of AI
          so far. Argenti said it is giving developers about a 20% increase in efficiency. The company is also in earlier
          Page 2 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          stages of rolling out an AI tool that translates documents into other languages and an application that
          summarizes proprietary research to provide insights to advisers.        
          Generative AI remains a relatively small part of the technology budget, Argenti said.
                                                                                  
          Document J000000020240628ek6s0001u                                      
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Page 3 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman'sCryptoNaysayerIsn'tTemptedbyBitcoinRally                       
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          Goldman's Crypto Naysayer Isn't Tempted by Bitcoin Rally                
          By Gregory Zuckerman                                                    
          739 words                                                               
          3 April 2024                                                            
          The Wall Street Journal                                                 
          J                                                                       
          B1                                                                      
          English                                                                 
          Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.           
          A crypto enthusiast approached Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani a couple of years ago, asking why she was so
          negative about digital currencies.                                      
          Mossavar-Rahmani was accustomed to defending her stance. As the chief investment officer of Goldman
          Sachs Wealth Management for the past 23 years, she has guided thousands of wealth advisers, clients and
          traders and regularly appears on television.                            
          This time, she was being questioned by a Goldman Sachs intern who said she owned cryptocurrencies.
          Mossavar-Rahmani dismissed investing in crypto as nothing more than a means of speculation.
          "Have you thought about what it's worth?" Mossavar-Rahmani recalled asking in that summer of 2022. "Have
          you thought about at what point you'll get out?"                        
          The intern didn't give much of an answer. She also didn't seem eager to sell her crypto.
                                                                                  
          So it goes for Mossavar-Rahmani, a high-profile market prognosticator who has gotten a lot right over the
          past few years. Since the 2008 global financial crisis, she has urged clients to stay fully invested in U.S.
          stocks and minimize their exposure to China and other emerging-market countries, advice that has made
          investors money amid the market's climb since that perilous period.     
          When it comes to crypto, Mossavar-Rahmani remains skeptical, even as bitcoin has soared 64% this year to
          nearly $70,000. Her position puts her at risk of costing Goldman clients potential gains while appearing out of
          step with markets. Wall Street giants including BlackRock and Fidelity have embraced bitcoin, launching
          funds in January that make it easy for everyday investors to invest in it.
          Some financial advisers also have begun advising clients to include crypto in their portfolios.
          Mossavar-Rahmani couldn't care less what the others do.                 
                                                                                  
          "We do not think it is an investment asset class," she said in an interview, comparing the recent crypto
          enthusiasm to the tulip mania of the 1600s. "We're not believers in crypto."
          She says clients are well aware of her team's crypto criticisms and haven't asked about jumping in.
                                                                                  
          Mossavar-Rahmani's view is based on the fact that it is nearly impossible to accurately value
          cryptocurrencies, which don't produce earnings, cash flow or dividends. 
          "If you cannot assign a value, then how can you be bullish or bearish?" she asks, rhetorically.
                                                                                  
          In June 2021, Mossavar-Rahmani and her colleagues published a critique of crypto titled, "Digital Assets:
          Beauty is Not in the Eye of the Beholder." The 50-page piece argued that bitcoin is too volatile to be a reliable
          medium of exchange and that it is "unlikely that it will be used broadly."
          The observations have held up -- but bitcoin's price has more than doubled since then.
          Mossavar-Rahmani says she isn't feeling pressure to alter her views. In fact, she is as skeptical as ever on
          bitcoin, which she says "creates absolutely no value in any shape or form."
                                                                                  
          What's more, she says crypto bulls "all proclaim democratization of finance, yet the main decisions end up
          being driven by a few controlling people."                              
          Plenty of people disagree with her conclusions. Matt Hougan, chief investment officer of crypto asset
          manager Bitwise, argues that just because an investment doesn't have cash flow doesn't mean it doesn't
          have value.                                                             
          Page 9 of 10 © 2025 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  

                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
          "Bitcoin had no cash flow 10 years ago and yet it's up 15,000%," Hougan says, adding that it has done well in
          periods of high and low inflation, as well as rising and falling interest rates. "The world is full of things that
          produce no cash flow but have value," he says, pointing to gold, art and collectibles.
          Bitcoin also offers a service, Hougan says: "The ability to securely store wealth without relying on a
          centralized institution."                                               
          Mossavar-Rahmani and her colleagues acknowledge the potential benefits of converting assets like real
          estate into digital tokens, and say central-bank digital currencies could eventually be useful.
          Mossavar-Rahmani acknowledges that gold, too, doesn't produce earnings and is hard to value, yet has been
          historically popular as an investment and for jewelry. That isn't enough of a reason to own crypto, though, she
          says.                                                                   
          "At least you can hold onto physical gold and store it; you can't do that with crypto," she says. "And anyway,
          we don't encourage people to own gold."                                 
          Document J000000020240403ek430001b                                      
                                                                                  
```