Company Information 

General Business Description U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state 
financial services holding company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota that is registered as a bank holding company under 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), and has 
elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the 
BHC Act. The Company provides a full range of financial services, 
including lending and depository services, cash management, 
capital markets, and trust and investment management services. 
It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM 
processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing. 

U.S. Bancorp’s banking subsidiary, U.S. Bank National 

Association, is engaged in the general banking business, 
principally in domestic markets. U.S. Bank National Association, 
with $443 billion in deposits at December 31, 2020, provides a 
wide range of products and services to individuals, businesses, 
institutional organizations, governmental entities and other 
financial institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services 
are principally offered to customers within the Company’s 
domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations 
and to large national customers operating in specific industries 
targeted by the Company, such as healthcare, utilities, oil and 
gas, and state and municipal government. Lending services 
include traditional credit products as well as credit card services, 
lease financing and import/export trade, asset-backed lending, 
agricultural finance and other products. Depository services 
include checking accounts, savings accounts and time certificate 
contracts. Ancillary services such as capital markets, treasury 
management and receivable lock-box collection are provided to 
corporate customers. U.S. Bancorp’s bank and trust subsidiaries 
provide a full range of asset management and fiduciary services 
for individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and 
charitable organizations. 

Other U.S. Bancorp non-banking subsidiaries offer investment 
and insurance products to the Company’s customers principally 
within its domestic markets, and fund administration services to a 
broad range of mutual and other funds. 

Banking and investment services are provided through a 
network of 2,434 banking offices as of December 31, 2020, 
principally operating in the Midwest and West regions of the 
United States, through on-line services, over mobile devices and 
through other distribution channels. The Company operates a 
network of 4,232 ATMs as of December 31, 2020, and provides 
24-hour, seven day a week telephone customer service. 
Mortgage banking services are provided through banking offices 
and loan production offices throughout the Company’s domestic 
markets. Lending products may be originated through banking 
offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending 
sources. The Company is also one of the largest providers of 
corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust 
services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary, Elavon, 
Inc. (“Elavon”), provides domestic merchant processing services 
directly to merchants. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Elavon 

146 

provide similar merchant services in Canada and segments of 
Europe. The Company also provides corporate trust and fund 
administration services in Europe. These foreign operations are 
not significant to the Company. 

During the past year, the COVID-19 pandemic has created 

economic and operational disruptions that have affected the 
Company’s business. Due to responses to the pandemic by the 
Company, its customers, its counterparties and governmental 
authorities, including “stay-at-home” orders, the Company 
temporarily, and in some cases permanently, closed certain of its 
offices and reduced operating hours and/or lobby services at its 
branches. Although, as of December 31, 2020, the Company has 
resumed operations at locations that were temporarily closed, 
customer behavior has evolved greatly as more customers are 
migrating quickly to on-line and digital-based products and 
services. To meet these evolving customer preferences, the 
Company has continued and accelerated the development of 
digital-based products and services, as well as reduced the 
number of higher-cost physical branches. 

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2020, 

U.S. Bancorp employed 68,108 people. 

Risk Factors An investment in the Company involves risk, 
including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall 
substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. Below are risk factors 
that are material to, and could adversely affect, the Company’s 
financial results and condition and the value of, and return on, an 
investment in the Company. 

Economic and Market Conditions Risk 
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to 
cause significant harm to the global economy and the 
Company’s businesses The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and 
is expected to continue to have, significant effects on global 
economic conditions, including disruption and volatility of financial 
markets, increased unemployment and other negative outcomes. 
It is expected that these negative effects will continue for the 
duration of the pandemic, and, if the pandemic is prolonged, or 
other diseases emerge, these negative effects on the global 
economy could worsen. 

The continuation of the economic conditions caused by 
COVID-19 are expected to have a material adverse effect on the 
Company and its business, including: (i) reduced demand for the 
Company’s products and services; (ii) possible increased 
recognition of credit losses and increases in the allowance for 
credit losses (particularly if unemployment continues to rise and 
customers draw on their lines of credit); (iii) possible downgrades 
to the Company’s credit ratings; (iv) increased constraints on 
liquidity and capital; (v) the possibility of reduced revenues from 
the Company’s credit and debit card, corporate payments 
products and merchant processing services product 

offerings, including because of business closures, unemployment 
or requirements for consumers to stay at home; and (vi) the 
possibility that the Company’s employees are unable to work 
effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, work-from-
home arrangements or other restrictions relating to the pandemic. 
Although the United States government has taken steps to 

attempt to mitigate some of the effects of the pandemic, 
including the passage of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and 
Economic Security (“CARES”) Act, implementation of other 
programs such as the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), and 
the provision of additional PPP funding and other COVID-related 
relief as part of the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which 
was signed into law in December 2020, there can be no 
assurance that these measures, and similar other measures taken 
by certain foreign governments to mitigate some of the effects of 
the pandemic, will achieve all of their desired results. In addition, 
these measures were of limited duration and/or received limited 
funding, and certain programs such as temporary lending facilities 
administered by the Federal Reserve and United States 
Department of Treasury have ended. The Company cannot 
predict whether additional governmental relief will be provided in 
the future, what form such additional relief, if any, will take, or to 
what extent existing relief efforts have mitigated, or will mitigate, 
the more severe effects of the pandemic (and consequently the 
severity of any effects from the cessation of those programs). 
Other negative effects of COVID-19 and the resulting 

economic and market disruptions will depend on developments 
that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. 
However, it is likely that the Company’s business, financial 
condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will continue 
to be adversely affected until the pandemic subsides and the 
domestic economy recovers. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic 
may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks 
described in this section. Even after the pandemic subsides, it is 
possible that the domestic and other major global economies will 
continue to experience a prolonged recession, which the 
Company expects would adversely affect its business, financial 
condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations, potentially 
materially. 

Deterioration in business and economic conditions could 
adversely affect the Company’s lending business and the 
value of loans and debt securities it holds The Company’s 
business activities and earnings are affected by general business 
conditions in the United States and abroad, including factors 
such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term 
interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-
employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer 
spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, 
liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of 
capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the 
financial markets, and the strength of the domestic and global 
economies in which the Company operates. Changes in these 
conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected 
the Company’s consumer and commercial businesses and 
securities portfolios, its level of charge-offs and provision for 

credit losses, and its results of operations during 2020, and other 
future changes in these conditions, whether related to the 
COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, could have additional adverse 
effects on the Company and its businesses. 

Given the high percentage of the Company’s assets 

represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of 
lending to its overall business, weak economic conditions caused 
by COVID-19 negatively affected the Company’s business and 
results of operations, including new loan origination activity, 
existing loan utilization rates and delinquencies, defaults and the 
ability of customers to meet obligations under the loans. Although 
the effects of COVID-19 were mitigated in part by governmental 
programs and the Company’s measures to assist its borrowers, 
there can be no assurances that such measures will continue to 
be effective. In addition, future deterioration in economic 
conditions, whether caused by COVID-19 or other events, could 
have adverse effects on loan origination activity, loan utilization 
rates and delinquencies, defaults and the ability of customers to 
meet loan obligations. The value to the Company of other assets 
such as investment securities, most of which are debt securities 
or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly have 
been, and would be, negatively impacted by widespread 
decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the 
economy. 

Any deterioration in global economic conditions could damage 

the domestic economy or negatively impact the Company’s 
borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect 
exposure to these regions. Such global disruptions can 
undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available 
credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have material 
adverse effects on the Company’s businesses, results of 
operations, financial condition and liquidity, even if the 
Company’s direct exposure to the affected region is limited. 
Global political trends toward nationalism and isolationism, could 
increase the probability of a deterioration in global economic 
conditions. 

Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net 
interest income The Company’s earnings are dependent to a 
large degree on net interest income, which is the difference 
between interest income from loans and investments and interest 
expense on deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is 
significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are 
affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and 
monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of 
various regulatory agencies. Volatility in interest rates can also 
result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into 
direct investments. Direct investments, such as United States 
government and corporate securities and other investment 
vehicles (including mutual funds), generally pay higher rates of 
return than financial institutions, because of the absence of 
federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. During the 
first quarter of 2020, United States interest rates fell dramatically 
which adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely 
impact, the Company’s net interest income. In addition, some 
foreign central banks have moved to a negative interest rate 

147 

environment, which has exerted downward pressure on the 
profitability of banks in those regions. The Company’s financial 
condition could be damaged if this interest rate trend extends to 
the United States. 

addition, there can be no assurance that actions taken by the 
Company and third parties to address these risks and otherwise 
prepare for the transition from LIBOR to alternative interest rate 
benchmarks will be successful. 

Changes in, or the discontinuance of, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as an interest rate 
benchmark could adversely affect the Company’s 
business, financial condition and results of operations In 
July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, 
which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop 
compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR 
after 2021. However, in November 2020, the administrator of 
LIBOR proposed to extend publication of the most commonly 
used United States Dollar LIBOR settings to June 30, 2023 and 
will cease publishing two other less frequently used LIBOR 
settings on December 31, 2021. The United States federal 
banking agencies have issued guidance strongly encouraging 
banking organizations to cease using the United States Dollar 
LIBOR as a reference rate in “new” contracts as soon as 
practicable and in any event by December 31, 2021. It is not 
possible to know whether LIBOR will continue to be viewed as an 
acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become 
accepted alternatives to LIBOR, or what the effect of any such 
changes in views or alternatives may have on the financial 
markets for LIBOR-linked financial instruments. 

In April 2018, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 

commenced publication of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate 
(“SOFR”), which has been recommended as an alternative to 
United States dollar LIBOR by the Alternative Reference Rates 
Committee, a group of market and official sector participants. 
However, uncertainty remains as to the transition process and 
acceptance of SOFR as the primary alternative to LIBOR. 

The market transition from LIBOR to SOFR or a different 
alternative reference rate is complex and could have a range of 
adverse impacts on the Company. In particular, any such 
transition or reform could, among other things, (i) adversely 
impact the value of, return on and trading for the Company’s 
financial assets or liabilities that are linked to LIBOR, including its 
securities, loans and derivatives; (ii) require renegotiations of 
outstanding financial assets and liabilities; (iii) result in additional 
inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the 
Company’s preparation and readiness for the LIBOR transition; 
(iv) increase the risk of disputes or litigation and/or increase 
expenses related to the transition, including with respect to any 
actions resulting from the Company’s interpretation and 
execution of its roles and responsibilities in corporate trust 
transactions; (v) adversely impact the Company’s reputation as it 
works with customers to transition loans and financial instruments 
from LIBOR; (vi) require successful system and analytics 
development and operationalization to transition the Company’s 
systems, loan portfolio and risk management processes away 
from LIBOR, which will require the Company to rely on the 
readiness of its customers, counterparties and third-party 
vendors; and (vii) cause significant disruption to financial markets 
that are relevant to the Company’s business segments. In 

Operations and Business Risk 
A breach in the security of the Company’s systems, or the 
systems of certain third parties, could disrupt the 
Company’s businesses, result in the disclosure of 
confidential information, damage its reputation and create 
significant financial and legal exposure The Company 
experiences numerous attacks on its computer systems, 
software, networks and other technology assets daily, and the 
number of attacks is increasing. Although the Company devotes 
significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its 
systems and processes that are designed to protect the security 
of the Company’s computer systems, software, networks and 
other technology assets, as well as its intellectual property, and to 
protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information 
belonging to the Company and its customers, the Company’s 
security measures may not be effective. Adversaries continue to 
develop more sophisticated cyber attacks that could impact the 
Company. Many banking institutions, retailers and other 
companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches 
in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which 
have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to 
obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy 
data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often 
through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber 
attacks and other means. 

Attacks on financial or other institutions important to the 
overall functioning of the financial system could also adversely 
affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of the Company’s 
businesses. The increasing consolidation, interdependence and 
complexity of financial entities and technology systems increases 
the risk of operational failure, both for the Company and on an 
industry-wide basis, and means that a technology failure, cyber 
attack, or other information or security breach that significantly 
degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or 
more financial entities could materially affect counterparties or 
other market participants, including the Company. 

Third parties that facilitate the Company’s business activities, 

including exchanges, clearinghouses, payment and ATM 
networks, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services 
or technology solutions for the Company’s operations, could also 
be sources of operational and security risks to the Company, 
including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, 
misconduct by their employees or cyber attacks that could affect 
their ability to deliver a product or service to the Company or 
result in lost or compromised information of the Company or its 
customers. The Company’s ability to implement back-up systems 
or other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is limited. 
Furthermore, an attack on or failure of a third-party system may 
not be revealed to the Company in a timely manner, which could 

148 

compromise the Company’s ability to respond effectively. Some 
of these third parties may engage vendors of their own, which 
introduces the risk that these “fourth parties” could be the source 
of operational and security failures. In addition, if a third party or 
fourth party obtains access to the customer account data on the 
Company’s systems, and that party experiences a breach or 
misappropriates such data, the Company and its customers 
could suffer material harm, including heightened risk of fraudulent 
transactions, losses from fraudulent transactions, increased 
operational costs to remediate any security breach and 
reputational harm. These risks are expected to continue to 
increase as the Company expands its interconnectivity with its 
customers and other third parties. 

During the past several years a number of retailers and 
hospitality companies have disclosed substantial cyber security 
breaches affecting debit and credit card accounts of their 
customers, some of whom were the Company’s cardholders and 
who may experience fraud on their card accounts as a result of a 
breach. The Company might suffer losses associated with 
reimbursing its customers for such fraudulent transactions, as 
well as for other costs related to data security compromise 
events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised 
card accounts. These attacks involving Company cards are likely 
to continue and could, individually or in the aggregate, have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or 
results of operations. 

It is possible that the Company may not be able to anticipate 
or to implement effective preventive measures against all security 
breaches of these types, because the techniques used change 
frequently, generally increase in sophistication, often are not 
recognized until launched, sometimes go undetected even when 
successful, and originate from a wide variety of sources, including 
organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, hostile foreign 
governments and other external parties. Those parties may also 
attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other 
users of the Company’s systems to disclose sensitive information 
to gain access to the Company’s data or that of its customers or 
clients, such as through “phishing” and other “social engineering” 
schemes. Other types of attacks may include computer viruses, 
malicious or destructive code, denial-of-service attacks, 
ransomware or ransom demands. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Company has experienced increased information 
security risks, primarily as a result of the increase in work-from-
home arrangements. These risks may increase in the future as 
the Company continues to increase its mobile and internet-based 
product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based 
products and applications, which is expected to remain elevated 
at least as long as the COVID-19 pandemic continues. In 
addition, the Company’s customers often use their own devices, 
such as computers, smart phones and tablet computers, to 
make payments and manage their accounts, and are subject to 
“phishing” and other attempts from cyber criminals to 
compromise or deny access to their accounts. The Company has 
limited ability to assure the safety and security of its customers’ 
transactions with the Company to the extent they are using their 

own devices, which have been, and likely will continue to be, 
subject to such threats. 

In the event that the Company’s physical or cyber security 
systems are penetrated or circumvented, or an authorized user 
intentionally or unintentionally removes, loses or destroys 
operations data, serious negative consequences for the 
Company can follow, including significant disruption of the 
Company’s operations, misappropriation of confidential Company 
and/or customer information, or damage to the Company’s or 
customers’ or counterparties’ computers or systems. These 
consequences could result in violations of applicable privacy and 
other laws; financial loss to the Company or to its customers; loss 
of confidence in the Company’s security measures; customer 
dissatisfaction; significant litigation exposure; regulatory fines, 
penalties or intervention; reimbursement or other compensatory 
costs (including the costs of credit monitoring services); additional 
compliance costs; and harm to the Company’s reputation, all of 
which could adversely affect the Company. 

Because the investigation of any information security breach is 

inherently unpredictable and would require substantial time to 
complete, the Company may not be able to quickly remediate the 
consequences of any breach, which may increase the costs, and 
enhance the negative consequences associated with a breach. In 
addition, to the extent the Company’s insurance covers aspects 
of any breach, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of 
the Company’s losses. 

The Company relies on its employees, systems and third 
parties to conduct its business, and certain failures by 
systems or misconduct by employees or third parties 
could adversely affect its operations The Company operates 
in many different businesses in diverse markets and relies on the 
ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of 
transactions. The Company’s business, financial, accounting, 
data processing, and other operating systems and facilities may 
stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a 
result of a number of factors, including events that are out of its 
control. In addition to the risks posed by information security 
breaches, as discussed above, such systems could be 
compromised because of spikes in transaction volume, electrical 
or telecommunications outages, degradation or loss of internet or 
website availability, natural disasters, political or social unrest, and 
terrorist acts. The Company’s business operations may be 
adversely affected by significant disruption to the operating 
systems that support its businesses and customers. If backup 
systems are used during outages, they might not process data as 
quickly as do the primary systems, resulting in the potential of 
some data not being backed up. 

The Company could also incur losses resulting from the risk of 

fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, 
unauthorized access to its computer systems, the execution of 
unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to 
transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal 
control system and compliance requirements, and business 
continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes 
the potential legal actions, fines or civil money penalties that could 

149 

arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of 
noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse 
business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition 
due to potential negative publicity. 

Third parties provide key components of the Company’s 
business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution. While the Company has 
selected these third parties carefully, it does not control their 
actions. Any problems caused by third-party service providers, 
including as a result of not providing the Company their services 
for any reason or performing their services poorly, could 
adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and 
services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct 
its business. Replacing third-party service providers could also 
entail significant delay and expense. In addition, failure of third-
party service providers to handle current or higher volumes of use 
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products 
and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. 
Technological or financial difficulties of a third-party service 
provider could adversely affect the Company’s businesses to the 
extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation 
of services provided by that party. 

Operational risks for large financial institutions such as the 

Company have generally increased in recent years, in part 
because of the proliferation of new technologies, implementation 
of work-from-home arrangements such as during the COVID-19 
pandemic, the use of internet services and telecommunications 
technologies to conduct financial transactions, the increased 
number and complexity of transactions being processed, and the 
increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, 
hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. In the 
event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper 
operation of systems or improper employee or third-party 
actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face legal or 
regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. 

The Company could face material legal and reputational 
harm if it fails to safeguard personal information The 
Company is subject to complex and evolving laws and 
regulations, both inside and outside the United States, governing 
the privacy and protection of personal information. Protected 
individuals can include the Company’s customers (and in some 
cases its customers’ customers), its employees, and the 
employees of the Company’s suppliers, counterparties and other 
third parties. Complying with laws and regulations applicable to 
the Company’s collection, use, transfer and storage of personal 
information can increase operating costs, impact the 
development of new products or services, and reduce 
operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse of personal 
information by the Company or a third party affiliated with the 
Company could expose the Company to litigation or regulatory 
fines, penalties or other sanctions. 

In the United States, several states have recently enacted 
consumer privacy laws that impose compliance obligations with 
respect to personal information. In particular, the California 
Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”) imposes significant 

requirements on covered companies with respect to consumer 
data privacy rights. In November 2020, voters in the State of 
California approved the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), a 
ballot measure that amends and supplements the CCPA by 
creating the California Privacy Protection Agency, a watchdog 
privacy agency to be appointed shortly after the CPRA’s 
enactment. The CPRA also modifies the CCPA by expanding 
both the scope of businesses covered by the law and certain 
rights relating to personal information and its use, collection, and 
disclosure by covered businesses. Compliance with the CCPA, 
the CPRA after it becomes effective, and other state statutes, 
common law, or regulations designed to protect consumer, 
employee, or applicant personal data could potentially require 
substantive technology infrastructure and process changes 
across many of the Company’s businesses. Non-compliance with 
the CCPA, CPRA, or similar laws and regulations could lead to 
substantial regulatory fines and penalties, damages from private 
causes of action, and/or reputational harm. The Company cannot 
predict whether any pending or future state or federal legislation 
will be adopted, or the substance and impact of any legislation on 
the Company. Future legislation could result in substantial costs 
to the Company and could have an adverse effect on its 
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The July 2020 decision by the Court of Justice of the 

European Union relating to transfers of personal data outside of 
the European Union (“Schrems II”) may impact the Company’s 
operations and ability to transfer personal data out of the 
European Union or may require additional compliance programs. 
While the decision invalidated the EU US Privacy Shield 
Framework for transferring personal data, this does not impact 
the Company as no financial institution was eligible to participate 
in the program. However, it did question the use of Standard 
Contractual Clauses as a valid process for processing personal 
data and prescribed significant due diligence obligations to be 
undertaken to ensure the recipient of the personal data can 
comply with the clauses and sufficiently protect the data. 
Schrems II and subsequent guidance from the European 
Commission and European Union Data Protection Board could 
result in substantial costs of compliance and failure to adhere to 
the guidance may subject the Company to fines or regulatory 
oversight. 

Additional risks could arise from the failure of the Company or 

third parties to provide adequate disclosure or transparency to 
the Company’s customers about the personal information 
collected from them and its use; to receive, document, and honor 
the privacy preferences expressed by the Company’s customers; 
to protect personal information from unauthorized disclosure; or 
to maintain proper training on privacy practices for all employees 
or third parties who have access to personal data. Concerns 
regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s measures to 
safeguard personal information and abide by privacy preferences, 
or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, 
could cause the Company to lose existing or potential customers 
and thereby reduce its revenues. In addition, any failure or 
perceived failure by the Company to comply with applicable 

150 

privacy or data protection laws and regulations could result in 
requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, 
and/or in material liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties, or other 
sanctions. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the 
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional 
information regarding data privacy laws and regulations. Any of 
these outcomes could damage the Company’s reputation and 
otherwise adversely affect its business. 

The Company could lose market share and experience 
increased costs if it does not effectively develop and 
implement new technology The financial services industry is 
continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent 
introductions of new technology-driven products and services, 
including innovative ways that customers can make payments or 
manage their accounts, such as through the use of mobile 
payments, digital wallets or digital currencies. The growth of 
many of these technologies was accelerated as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the shift to increased digital activity. The 
Company’s continued success depends, in part, upon its ability 
to address customer needs by using technology to provide 
products and services that customers want to adopt, and create 
additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. When 
launching a new product or service or introducing a new platform 
for the delivery of products and services, the Company might not 
identify or fully appreciate new operational risks arising from those 
innovations or might fail to implement adequate controls to 
mitigate those risks. Developing and deploying new technology-
driven products and services can also involve costs that the 
Company may not recover and divert resources away from other 
product development efforts. The Company may not be able to 
effectively develop and implement profitable new technology-
driven products and services or be successful in marketing these 
products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully 
keep pace with technological change affecting the financial 
services industry, including because larger competitors may have 
more resources to spend on developing new technologies or 
because non-bank competitors have a lower cost structure and 
more flexibility, could harm the Company’s competitive position 
and negatively affect its revenue and profit. 

Damage to the Company’s reputation could adversely 
impact its business and financial results Reputation risk, or 
the risk to the Company’s business, earnings and capital from 
negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s business. 
Negative public opinion about the financial services industry 
generally or the Company specifically could adversely affect the 
Company’s ability to keep and attract customers, investors, and 
employees and could expose the Company to litigation and 
regulatory action. Negative public opinion can result from the 
Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, 
including lending practices, cybersecurity breaches, failures to 
safeguard personal information, discriminating or harassing 
behavior of employees toward other employees or customers, 
mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, compensation 
practices, sales practices, environmental, social, and governance 

practices and disclosures, regulatory compliance, mergers and 
acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and 
community organizations in response to that conduct. In addition, 
social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting 
financial services firms with public criticism for their relationships 
with clients engaged in industries they perceive to be harmful to 
communities or the environment. Such criticism directed at the 
Company could generate dissatisfaction among its customers, 
investors, and employees. Although the Company takes steps to 
minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other 
constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified financial 
services company with a high industry profile, is inherently 
exposed to this risk. 

The Company’s business and financial performance could 
be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by pandemics, 
terrorist activities, civil unrest or international hostilities 
Neither the occurrence nor the potential impact of pandemics, 
terrorist activities, civil unrest or international hostilities can be 
predicted. However, these occurrences could impact the 
Company directly (for example, by interrupting the Company’s 
systems, which could prevent the Company from obtaining 
deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow 
of business; causing significant damage to the Company’s 
facilities; or otherwise preventing the Company from conducting 
business in the ordinary course), or indirectly as a result of their 
impact on the Company’s borrowers, depositors, other 
customers, vendors or other counterparties (for example, by 
damaging properties pledged as collateral for the Company’s 
loans or impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their 
loans). The Company could also suffer adverse consequences to 
the extent that pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities affect the financial markets or the economy 
in general or in any particular region. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has 
experienced significant disruptions to its normal operations, 
including the temporary closing of branches and a sudden 
increase in the volume of work-from-home arrangements. In 
addition, the Company has been indirectly negatively affected by 
the pandemic’s effects on the Company’s borrowers and other 
customers, and by its effects on global financial markets. Many of 
these effects are expected to continue for the duration of the 
pandemic, and could worsen if the pandemic continues to spread 
or if any vaccines are not effective (including because of lack of 
acceptance) or not efficiently distributed, or if governmental and 
other responses to the pandemic are ineffective. The COVID-19 
pandemic has caused, and other future pandemics, or terrorist 
activities, civil unrest or international hostilities, may cause, an 
increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could 
result in the Company experiencing higher levels of 
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit 
losses. 

The United States, and in particular, the Minneapolis/St. Paul 

metropolitan area following tragic events that occurred in May 
2020, has also faced a period of significant civil unrest. Although 
civil unrest has not materially affected the Company’s businesses 

151 

to date, continued unrest or similar events could, directly or 
indirectly, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
operations (for example, by causing shutdowns of branches or 
working locations of vendors and other counterparties or 
damaging property pledged as collateral for the Company’s 
loans). 

The Company’s ability to mitigate the adverse consequences 

of these occurrences is in part dependent on the quality of the 
Company’s resiliency planning, and the Company’s ability, if any, 
to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The 
adverse effects of pandemics, terrorist activities, civil unrest or 
international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that 
there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional 
emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and 
businesses that the Company transacts with, particularly those 
that it depends upon, but has no control over. 

The Company’s operations and financial performance 
could be adversely affected by natural disasters, and 
climate change can exacerbate those risks while adding 
other compliance, market, strategic and reputation risks 
Natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company’s financial position and results of operations, and the 
timing and effects of any natural disaster cannot accurately be 
predicted. Natural disasters, such as an earthquake, could affect 
the Company directly (for example, by interrupting Company 
systems, damaging Company facilities or otherwise preventing 
the Company from conducting its business in the ordinary 
course) or indirectly (for example, by damaging or destroying 
customer businesses or otherwise impairing customers’ ability to 
repay their loans, or by damaging or destroying property pledged 
as collateral for Company loans). 

Both the frequency and severity of some kinds of natural 
disasters, including wildfires, tornadoes and hurricanes, have 
increased as a result of climate change, which further reduces the 
Company’s ability to predict their effects accurately. Climate 
change poses other risks to the Company’s business and 
financial performance as well. It may result in new and/or more 
stringent regulatory requirements for the Company, which could 
materially affect the Company’s results of operations by requiring 
the Company to take costly measures to comply with any new 
laws or regulations related to climate change that may be 
forthcoming. Changes to regulations or market shifts to low-
carbon products could also impact the credit worthiness of some 
of the Company’s customers, which may require the Company to 
adjust its lending portfolios and business strategies. 

In addition, the Company’s customers, shareholders and 
communities have increasing expectations for the Company to 
manage its environmental impact, and frequently also evaluate the 
Company based on the environmental impact of its customers. 
Failure by the Company to appropriately manage its environmental 
impact could have a material adverse effect on its reputation and 
harm its ability to keep and attract customers and employees. 

Regulatory and Legal Risk 
The Company is subject to extensive and evolving 
government regulation and supervision, which can 
increase the cost of doing business, limit the Company’s 
ability to make investments and generate revenue, and 
lead to costly enforcement actions Banking regulations are 
primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, the federal 
Deposit Insurance Fund, and the United States financial system 
as a whole, and not the Company’s debt holders or 
shareholders. These regulations, and the Company’s inability to 
act in certain instances without receiving prior regulatory 
approval, affect the Company’s lending practices, capital 
structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to 
repurchase common stock, and ability to pursue strategic 
acquisitions, among other activities. 

The Company expects that its business will remain subject to 
extensive regulation and supervision and that the level of scrutiny 
and the enforcement environment may fluctuate over time, based 
on numerous factors, including changes in the United States 
presidential administration or one or both houses of Congress 
and public sentiment regarding financial institutions (which can be 
influenced by scandals and other incidents that involve 
participants in the industry). In particular, given the recent election 
results, the Company and other large financial institutions may 
become subject to increased scrutiny and more extensive legal 
and regulatory requirements than under the prior presidential and 
congressional regime. In addition, changes in key personnel at 
the agencies that regulate the Company, including the federal 
banking regulators, may result in differing interpretations of 
existing rules and guidelines and potentially more stringent 
enforcement and more severe penalties than previously. New 
regulations or modifications to existing regulations and 
supervisory expectations have increased, and may in the future 
increase, the Company’s costs over time and necessitate 
changes to the Company’s existing regulatory compliance and 
risk management infrastructure. In addition, regulatory changes 
may reduce the Company’s revenues, limit the types of financial 
services and products it may offer, alter the investments it makes, 
affect the manner in which it operates its businesses, increase its 
litigation and regulatory costs should it fail to appropriately 
comply with new or modified laws and regulatory requirements, 
and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial 
services and products. 

Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, or their 

interpretation or implementation, and/or regulatory practices, 
requirements or expectations, could affect the Company in 
substantial and unpredictable ways. Moreover, general regulatory 
practices, such as longer time frames to obtain regulatory 
approvals for acquisitions and other activities (and the resultant 
impact on businesses the Company may seek to acquire), could 
affect the Company’s ability or willingness to make certain 
acquisitions or introduce new products or services. 

Federal law grants substantial supervisory and enforcement 

powers to federal banking regulators and law enforcement 

152 

agencies, including, among other things, the ability to assess 
significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; 
to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate 
injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-
affiliated parties. The financial services industry continues to face 
scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and 
stringent enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state 
levels, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices, 
student lending practices, sales practices and related incentive 
compensation programs, and other consumer compliance 
matters, as well as compliance with Bank Secrecy Act/anti-
money laundering (“BSA/AML”) requirements and sanctions 
compliance requirements as administered by the Office of Foreign 
Assets Control, and consumer protection issues more generally. 
This heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of an 
investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory 
investigations or enforcement actions. There is no assurance that 
those actions will not result in regulatory settlements or other 
enforcement actions against the Company, which could cause 
the Company material financial and reputational harm. 
Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or 
regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping 
investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and 
state agencies and officials in the United States or, in some 
instances, regulators and other governmental officials in foreign 
jurisdictions. In addition, another financial institution’s violation of 
law or regulation relating to a business activity or practice often 
will give rise to an investigation of the same or similar activities or 
practices of the Company. 

In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in 
settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of 
other terms of regulatory settlements are likely to remain elevated. 
In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal 
pleas or other extraordinary terms, including admissions of 
wrongdoing and the imposition of monitors, as part of such 
settlements, which could have significant consequences for a 
financial institution, including loss of customers, reputational 
harm, increased exposure to civil litigation, restrictions on the 
ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate 
certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. 
Non-compliance with sanctions laws and/or AML laws or 
failure to maintain an adequate BSA/AML compliance program 
can lead to significant monetary penalties and reputational 
damage. In addition, federal regulators evaluate the effectiveness 
of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining 
whether to approve a proposed bank merger, acquisition, 
restructuring, or other expansionary activity. There have been a 
number of significant enforcement actions against banks, broker-
dealers and non-bank financial institutions with respect to 
sanctions laws and BSA/AML laws and some have resulted in 
substantial penalties, including against the Company and U.S. 
Bank National Association in 2018. 

Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in 
risk management practices or consumer compliance also may be 
incorporated into the Company’s confidential supervisory ratings. 

A downgrade in these ratings, or these or other regulatory actions 
and settlements, could limit the Company’s ability to conduct 
expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or 
additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other 
business activities. 

Differences in regulation can affect the Company’s ability 
to compete effectively The content and application of laws and 
regulations applicable to financial institutions vary according to 
the size of the institution, the jurisdictions in which the institution 
is organized and operates and other factors. Large institutions, 
such as the Company, often are subject to more stringent 
regulatory requirements and supervision than smaller institutions. 
In addition, financial technology companies and other non-bank 
competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be 
regulated by a national or state agency that does not have the 
same regulatory priorities or supervisory requirements as the 
Company’s regulators. These differences in regulation can impair 
the Company’s ability to compete effectively with competitors 
that are less regulated and that do not have similar compliance 
costs. 

Stringent requirements related to capital and liquidity have 
been adopted by United States banking regulators that 
may limit the Company’s ability to return earnings to 
shareholders or operate or invest in its business United 
States banking regulators have adopted stringent capital- and 
liquidity-related standards applicable to larger banking 
organizations, including the Company. The rules require banks to 
hold more and higher quality capital as well as sufficient 
unencumbered liquid assets to meet certain stress scenarios 
defined by regulation. In November 2019, the federal banking 
regulators adopted two final rules (the “Tailoring Rules”) that 
revised the criteria for determining the applicability of regulatory 
capital and liquidity requirements for large U.S. banking 
organizations, including the Company and U.S. Bank National 
Association, and that tailored the application of the Federal 
Reserve’s enhanced prudential standards to large banking 
organizations. Although the Tailoring Rules and other recent 
changes to capital- and liquidity-related rules generally have 
simplified the regulatory framework applicable to the Company, 
future changes to the implementation of these rules including the 
common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer, or additional 
capital- and liquidity-related rules, could require the Company to 
take further steps to increase its capital, increase its investment 
security holdings, divest assets or operations, or otherwise 
change aspects of its capital and/or liquidity measures, including 
in ways that may be dilutive to shareholders or could limit the 
Company’s ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase 
its common stock, invest in its businesses or provide loans to its 
customers. 

During 2020 the Federal Reserve implemented measures 
requiring all large bank holding companies to preserve capital 
through the suspension of share repurchase programs and 
capping common stock dividends to existing rates that do not 
exceed the average of the last four quarters’ earnings. These 

153 

capital preservation actions applied to the third and fourth 
quarters of 2020. In December 2020, the Federal Reserve 
announced that these bank holding companies could continue 
existing dividend payments and resume stock repurchases in the 
first quarter of 2021, as long as the combined amounts of 
repurchases and dividends in that quarter do not exceed the 
bank holding company’s average earnings per quarter over the 
last four quarters. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and/or 
additional actions by the Federal Reserve may cause the 
Company to suspend its share repurchase program and limit 
capital distributions in future periods, including reducing or 
suspending its common stock dividend. 

Additional requirements may be imposed in the future. In 
December 2017, the Basel Committee finalized a package of 
revisions to the Basel III framework (commonly referred to as 
“Basel IV”). The changes are meant to improve the calculation of 
risk-weighted assets and the comparability of capital ratios. 
Federal banking regulators are expected to undertake rule-
makings in future years to implement these revisions in the United 
States. The ultimate impact of revisions to the Basel III–based 
framework in the United States on the Company’s capital and 
liquidity will depend on the final rule-makings and the 
implementation process thereafter. 

Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding 
the Company’s capital and liquidity requirements. 

The Company is subject to significant financial and 
reputation risks from potential legal liability and 
governmental actions The Company faces significant legal 
risks in its businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of 
damages and penalties claimed in litigation and governmental 
proceedings against it and other financial institutions are 
substantial. Customers, clients and other counterparties are 
making claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of 
damages, while banking regulators and certain other 
governmental authorities have focused on enforcement. The 
Company is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in 
many legal proceedings, including class actions and other 
litigation. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is 
likely that the Company will continue to experience a high level of 
litigation related to its businesses and operations in the future. 
Substantial legal liability or significant governmental action against 
the Company could materially impact the Company’s financial 
condition and results of operations (including because such 
matters may be resolved for amounts that exceed established 
accruals for a particular period) or cause significant reputational 
harm to the Company. 

Many financial institutions, including the Company, have 
received inquiries from the United States Congress, regulators 
and other government agencies and are subject to litigation 
regarding participation directly or on behalf of customers and 
clients in United States government programs designed to 
support individuals, households and businesses impacted by the 
economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
Company’s participation in these and other programs used in 

response to the COVID-19 pandemic may lead to additional 
government and regulatory inquiries and litigation in the future, 
any of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, 
reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 

The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage 
loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties 
When the Company sells mortgage loans that it has originated to 
various parties, including GSEs, it is required to make customary 
representations and warranties to the purchaser about the 
mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. 
The Company may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 
be subject to indemnification claims in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 
within a certain period. Contracts for residential mortgage loan 
sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 
penalties that could be applied if the Company does not 
adequately respond to repurchase requests. If economic 
conditions and the housing market deteriorate or the GSEs 
increase their claims for breached representations and 
warranties, the Company could have increased repurchase 
obligations and increased losses on repurchases, requiring 
material increases to its repurchase reserve. 

Credit and Mortgage Business Risk 
Heightened credit risk could require the Company to 
increase its provision for credit losses, which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s results of 
operations and financial condition When the Company lends 
money, or commits to lend money, it incurs credit risk, or the risk 
of losses if its borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the 
largest lenders in the United States, the credit performance of the 
Company’s loan portfolios significantly affects its financial results 
and condition. If the current economic environment were to 
further deteriorate, the Company’s customers may have more 
difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations, which could 
result in a higher level of credit losses and higher provisions for 
credit losses. Certain industries where the Company has credit 
exposure, including retail, energy, media and entertainment, 
lodging, and airlines, have experienced significant operational 
challenges as a result of COVID-19. Unexpected stress on the 
United States economy or the local economies in which the 
Company does business, including the economic stress caused 
by the COVID-19 pandemic, has resulted, and in the future may 
result, in, among other things, unexpected deterioration in credit 
quality of the loan portfolio, or in the value of collateral securing 
those loans, which, during the COVID-19 pandemic caused, and 
in the future could cause, the Company to establish higher 
provisions for credit losses. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to support its 
customers, the Company has offered payment deferrals and 
other expanded assistance to customers, and, during 2020, 
committed to suspend mortgage payments and foreclosure sales 
for financially impacted customers for certain periods of time. A 

154 

number of the Company’s customers sought to suspend their 
mortgage payments under these programs. Suspensions of 
mortgage payments and foreclosures and reduced pricing under 
these programs may adversely affect the Company’s revenue 
and results of operations. In addition, if these programs are not 
effective in mitigating the financial consequences of COVID-19 on 
customers, or if customers are unable to pay their loans after 
these programs expire, the Company may experience higher 
rates of default, increased credit losses and additional increases 
to the allowance for credit losses in future periods. 

The Company reserves for credit losses by establishing an 

allowance through a charge to earnings to provide for loan 
defaults and nonperformance. The Company’s allowance for loan 
losses is compliant with the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) 
methodology, which is based on the portfolio’s historical loss 
experience, an evaluation of the risks associated with its loan 
portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, 
current and foreseeable economic conditions and borrower and 
collateral quality. These conditions inform the Company’s 
expected lifetime loss estimates of the portfolio, which is the 
foundation for the allowance for credit losses. These forecasts 
and estimates require difficult, subjective, and complex 
judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how 
these economic predictions might impair the ability of the 
Company’s borrowers to repay their loans. The Company may 
not be able to accurately predict these economic conditions and/ 
or some or all of their effects, which may, in turn, negatively 
impact the reliability of the process. The Company also makes 
loans to borrowers where it does not have or service the loan 
with the first lien on the property securing its loan. For loans in a 
junior lien position, the Company may not have access to 
information on the position or performance of the first lien when it 
is held and serviced by a third party, which may adversely affect 
the accuracy of the loss estimates for loans of these types. 
Increases in the Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be 
adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for 
loan losses could materially and adversely affect its financial 
results. In addition, the Company’s ability to assess the 
creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models 
and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its 
customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 

A concentration of credit and market risk in the Company’s 
loan portfolio could increase the potential for significant 
losses The Company may have higher credit risk, or experience 
higher credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by 
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 
borrower or collateral. For example, the Company’s credit risk 
and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in similar 
activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic 
or market conditions, or by regulation, such as regulation related 
to climate change. Deterioration in economic conditions or real 
estate values in states or regions where the Company has 
relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial real 
estate could result in higher credit costs. 

Changes in interest rates can impact the value of the 
Company’s mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held 
for sale, and can make its mortgage banking revenue 
volatile from quarter to quarter, which can reduce its 
earnings The Company has a portfolio of MSRs, which is the 
right to service a mortgage loan—collect principal, interest and 
escrow amounts—for a fee, with a fair value of $2.2 billion as of 
December 31, 2020. The Company initially carries its MSRs using 
a fair value measurement of the present value of the estimated 
future net servicing income, which includes assumptions about 
the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest 
rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. 
When interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as 
borrowers refinance, and the fair value of MSRs can decrease, 
which in turn reduces the Company’s earnings. Further, it is 
possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or 
deteriorating housing market, even when interest rates fall or 
remain low, mortgage originations may fall or any increase in 
mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease 
in the MSRs’ value caused by the lower rates. 

A decline in the soundness of other financial institutions 
could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations 
The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding or settlement 
transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and 
commercial soundness of other domestic or foreign financial 
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a 
result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The 
Company has exposure to many different counterparties, and the 
Company routinely executes and settles transactions with 
counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers 
and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and 
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults 
by, or even rumors or questions about, the soundness of one or 
more financial services institutions, or the financial services 
industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by the 
Company or by other institutions and impact the Company’s 
predominately United States–based businesses or the less 
significant merchant processing, corporate trust and fund 
administration services businesses it operates in foreign 
countries. Many of these transactions expose the Company to 
credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In 
addition, the Company’s credit risk may be further increased 
when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon 
or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of 
the financial instrument exposure due the Company. There is no 
assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect the 
Company’s results of operations. 

Change in residual value of leased assets may have an 
adverse impact on the Company’s financial results The 
Company engages in leasing activities and is subject to the risk 
that the residual value of the property under lease will be less 
than the Company’s recorded asset value. Adverse changes in 
the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on 
the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the 

155 

realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual 
values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s 
control, including supply and demand for the assets, condition of 
the assets at the end of the lease term, and other economic 
factors. 

creditors, except to the extent that any of the Company’s claims 
as a creditor of that subsidiary may be recognized. Refer to 
“Supervision and Regulation” in the Company’s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information regarding limitations on the 
amount of dividends U.S. Bank National Association may pay. 

Liquidity Risk 
If the Company does not effectively manage its liquidity, its 
business could suffer The Company’s liquidity is essential for 
the operation of its business. Market conditions, unforeseen 
outflows of funds or other events could negatively affect the 
Company’s level or cost of funding, affecting its ongoing ability to 
accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet 
contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business 
transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If the 
Company’s access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, 
such as customer deposits, is reduced, the Company might need 
to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of 
limited availability. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged 
changes in the level or cost of liquidity could adversely affect the 
Company’s business. 

Loss of customer deposits could increase the Company’s 
funding costs The Company relies on bank deposits to be a 
low-cost and stable source of funding. The Company competes 
with banks and other financial services companies for deposits, 
including those that offer on-line channels. If the Company’s 
competitors raise the interest rates they pay on deposits, the 
Company’s funding costs may increase, either because the 
Company raises the interest rates it pays on deposits to avoid 
losing deposits to competitors or because the Company loses 
deposits to competitors and must rely on more expensive 
sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce the Company’s 
net interest margin and net interest income. Checking and 
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits 
may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, 
such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return 
tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and 
into other investments, the Company may lose a relatively low-
cost source of funds, increasing the Company’s funding costs 
and reducing the Company’s net interest income. 

The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for 
its liquidity needs, and the payment of those dividends is 
limited by laws and regulations The Company is a separate 
and distinct legal entity from U.S. Bank National Association and 
its non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives a significant 
portion of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These 
dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on 
the Company’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. 
Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of 
dividends that U.S. Bank National Association and certain of its 
non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without 
regulatory approval. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a 
distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s 

Competitive and Strategic Risk 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, and 
competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect 
the Company’s financial results The Company operates in a 
highly competitive industry that could become even more 
competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological 
changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may 
increase in connection with current economic and market 
conditions. This consolidation may produce larger, better-
capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are 
capable of offering a wider array of financial products and 
services at more competitive prices. The Company competes 
with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, 
mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking 
companies, credit unions, investment companies, credit card 
companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory 
companies. Legislative or regulatory changes also could lead to 
increased competition in the financial services sector. For 
example, the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules have 
reduced the regulatory burden of large bank holding companies, 
including the Company and some of its competitors, and raised 
the asset thresholds at which more onerous requirements apply, 
which could cause certain large bank holding companies with 
less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, which were 
previously subject to more stringent enhanced prudential 
standards, to become more competitive or to pursue expansion 
more aggressively. 

In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and 
made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services, 
such as loans and payment services, that traditionally were 
banking products, and made it possible for technology 
companies to compete with financial institutions in providing 
electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone–based financial 
solutions. Competition with non-banks, including technology 
companies, to provide financial products and services is 
intensifying. In particular, the activity of financial technology 
companies (“fintechs”) has grown significantly over recent years 
and is expected to continue to grow. Fintechs have and may 
continue to offer bank or bank-like products. For example, a 
number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan 
charters, which, in some cases, have been granted. In addition, 
other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to 
offer deposit products or payment services to their customers. 
Many of these companies, including the Company’s competitors, 
have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost 
structures, in part due to lack of physical structures. Also, the 
potential need to adapt to industry changes in information 
technology systems, on which the Company and financial 

156 

services industry are highly dependent, could present operational 
issues and require capital spending. The Company’s ability to 
compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, 
among others, its ability to develop and execute strategic plans 
and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term 
customer relationships based on quality service, competitive 
prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and 
industry and general economic trends. A failure to compete 
effectively could contribute to downward price pressure on the 
Company’s products or services or a loss of market share. 

The Company may need to lower prices on existing 
products and services and develop and introduce new 
products and services to maintain market share The 
Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its 
products and services to evolving industry standards. There is 
increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower 
prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company’s net interest 
margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In 
addition, the adoption of new technologies or further 
developments in current technologies require the Company to 
make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing 
products and services. Also, these and other capital investments 
in the Company’s businesses may not produce expected growth 
in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The 
Company might not be successful in developing or introducing 
new products and services, adapting to changing customer 
preferences and spending and saving habits (which may be 
altered significantly and with little warning, such as during the 
COVID-19 pandemic), achieving market acceptance of its 
products and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining 
loyal customer relationships. 

The Company may not be able to complete future 
acquisitions, and completed acquisitions may not produce 
revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within 
timeframes originally anticipated, may result in unforeseen 
integration difficulties, and may dilute existing 
shareholders’ interests The Company regularly explores 
opportunities to acquire financial services businesses or assets 
and may also consider opportunities to acquire other banks or 
financial institutions. The Company cannot predict the number, 
size or timing of acquisitions it might pursue. 

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory 
approval before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. 
The Company’s ability to pursue or complete an attractive 
acquisition could be negatively impacted by regulatory delay or 
other regulatory issues. The Company cannot be certain when or 
if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory 
approvals will be granted. For example, the Company may be 
required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory 
approval for bank acquisitions. If the Company commits certain 
regulatory violations, including those that result in a downgrade in 
certain of the Company’s bank regulatory ratings, governmental 
authorities could, as a consequence, preclude it from pursuing 
future acquisitions for a period of time. 

There can be no assurance that acquisitions the Company 
completes will have the anticipated positive results, including 
results related to expected revenue increases, cost savings, 
increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other 
projected benefits. Integration efforts could divert management’s 
attention and resources, which could adversely affect the 
Company’s operations or results. The integration could result in 
higher than expected customer loss, deposit attrition, loss of key 
employees, disruption of the Company’s businesses or the 
businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely 
affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with 
customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of 
the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures 
required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business 
combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, future 
acquisitions may also expose the Company to increased legal or 
regulatory risks. Finally, future acquisitions could be material to 
the Company, and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay 
for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ 
ownership interests. 

Accounting and Tax Risk 
The Company’s reported financial results depend on 
management’s selection of accounting methods and 
certain assumptions and estimates, which, if incorrect, 
could cause unexpected losses in the future The Company’s 
accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the 
Company records and reports its financial condition and results 
of operations. The Company’s management must exercise 
judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting 
policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted 
accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment 
regarding the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s 
financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, 
management must select the accounting policy or method to 
apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 
reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the 
Company’s reporting materially different results than would have 
been reported under a different alternative. 

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the 
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. They 
require management to make difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different 
amounts could be reported under different conditions or using 
different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting 
policies include the allowance for credit losses, estimations of fair 
value, the valuation of MSRs, and income taxes. Because of the 
uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Company 
may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly 
increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit 
losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, 
recognize significant losses on the remeasurement of certain 
asset and liability balances, or significantly increase its accrued 

157 

taxes liability. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting 
Policies” in this Annual Report. 

The Company’s investments in certain tax-advantaged 
projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may 
have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results 
The Company invests in certain tax-advantaged projects 
promoting affordable housing, community development and 
renewable energy resources. The Company’s investments in 
these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through 
the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other 
tax benefits, over specified time periods. The Company is subject 
to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain 
subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance 
features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet 
certain government compliance requirements and will not be able 
to be realized. The possible inability to realize these tax credit and 
other tax benefits can have a negative impact on the Company’s 
financial results. The risk of not being able to realize the tax 
credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside 
of the Company’s control, including changes in the applicable tax 
code and the ability of the projects to be completed. 

General Risk Factors 
The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be 
effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company The 
Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk 
and loss. The Company has established processes and 
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and 
analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity 
risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, 
strategic risk, reputation risk, and operational risk related to its 
employees, systems and vendors, among others. However, as 
with any risk management framework, there are inherent 
limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there 
may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not 
appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company 
relies on quantitative models to measure certain risks and to 
estimate certain financial values, and these models could fail to 
predict future events or exposures accurately. The Company 
must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management 
among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with 
third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s 
risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company 

could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and 
suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or 
results of operations. 

The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to attract 
and retain skilled employees The Company’s success 
depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key 
employees. Competition for the best people in most activities the 
Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be 
able to hire the best people or to keep them. Recent strong 
scrutiny of compensation practices has resulted in, and may 
continue to result in, additional regulation and legislation in this 
area. As a result, the Company may not be able to retain key 
employees by providing adequate compensation. There is no 
assurance that these developments will not cause increased 
turnover or impede the Company’s ability to retain and attract the 
highest caliber employees. 

A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could have a 
material adverse effect on its liquidity, funding costs and 
access to capital markets The Company’s credit ratings, 
which are subject credit agencies’ ongoing review of a number of 
factors, including factors not within the Company’s control, are 
important to the Company’s liquidity. A reduction in one or more 
of the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, 
increase its funding costs or limit its access to the capital 
markets. Further, a downgrade could decrease the number of 
investors and counterparties willing or able, contractually or 
otherwise, to do business or lend to the Company, thereby 
adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. There 
can be no assurance that the Company will maintain its current 
ratings and outlooks. 

Changes in accounting standards could materially impact 
the Company’s financial statements From time to time, the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board and the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 
of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be 
hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company 
records and reports its financial condition and results of 
operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or 
revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard 
differently, on a retroactive basis, in each case potentially 
resulting in the Company restating prior period financial 
statements. 

158 

