 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Risk Factors of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes a discussion of the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and impact our results of operations or financial condition. The information presented below updates, and should be read in conjunction with, the risk factors and information disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Adverse developments or concerns affecting the financial services industry in general or financial institutions that are similar to us or that may be viewed as being similar to us, such as the recent bank closures and disruption in the United States banking industry, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

Actual events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar events, have in the past and may in the future lead to erosion of customer confidence in the banking system or certain banks, deposit volatility, liquidity issues, stock price volatility and other adverse developments. The recent closures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank led to such disruption and volatility, including deposit outflows, at many mid-sized banks, increasing the need for liquidity. Although a statement by the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC indicated that all depositors of Silicon Valley Bank would have access to all of their money after only one business day of closure, including funds held in uninsured deposit accounts, it is not certain that the Federal Reserve or FDIC will treat future bank failures similarly. On May 1, 2023, First Republic Bank was also closed by its primary state regulator, which appointed the FDIC as receiver, and the FDIC announced that JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association agreed to assume all of First Republic Bank&#8217;s deposits and substantially all of its assets . 

Shortly following the closures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, we and certain other banks experienced a brief period of elevated deposit withdrawals. While we cannot know for certain with respect to all withdrawals, we believe the elevated withdrawals were at least in part due to certain perceived similarities between our loan portfolio and deposit gathering activities and those of these banks. Our deposit balances stabilized as of March 20, 2023 and from such date through March 31, 2023 deposits increased, but were down $6.1 billion from December 31, 2022. During this time, we took additional measures to ensure liquidity, strengthen our capital position and increase customer confidence, which included increasing our borrowing capacity with the FRB, selling certain assets and strengthening our insured deposit ratio from 45% as of December 31, 2022 to 68% as of March 31, 2023. We have also participated in the BTFP, with $1.3 billion of funds drawn as of March 31, 2023 on $1.4 billion of access capacity for the Bank. Although our deposits have stabilized and increased since we experienced the period of elevated withdrawals, we cannot be assured that similar unusual deposit withdrawal activity will not affect banks generally or us in the future. Our net interest margin also may be negatively impacted if the Company&#8217;s borrowings remain elevated in future periods. 

Inflation and rapid increases in interest rates have led to a decline in the trading value of previously issued government securities with interest rates below current market interest rates. Any sale of investment securities that are held in an unrealized loss position by financial institutions for liquidity or other purposes will cause actual losses to be realized. Gross unrealized losses on our HTM and AFS investment securities totaled $142 million and $794 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2023. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional bank failures or liquidity concerns in particular segments of the financial services industry or in the U.S. financial system as a whole. The volatility and economic disruption resulting from the recent bank closures have particularly impacted the price of capital stock and other securities issued by financial institutions, including us. Continued uncertainty regarding or worsening of the severity and duration of the volatility in the banking industry and related economic effects may also adversely impact the Company&#8217;s estimate of its allowance for credit losses and resulting provision for credit losses. 

Any of these impacts, or any other impacts resulting from the events described above or other related or similar events, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our current and/or projected business operations and financial condition and results of operations. 

