 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

This section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Part I, Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (the 2021 Form 10-K) based on information currently known to us and recent developments since the date of the 2021 Form 10-K filing. The matters discussed below should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth in the 2021 Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties that we face are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2021 Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities, particularly in light of the fast-changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, containment measures, continued outbreaks and new variants, and the related impacts to economic and operating conditions. 

Our business is subject to the effects of geopolitical conditions, weather, natural disasters and other catastrophic events. 

As discussed in more detail in the 2021 Form 10-K, geopolitical conditions, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, severe weather, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, information or cyber security incidents (including intrusion into or degradation of systems or technology by cyberattacks) and other catastrophic events can have a material adverse effect on our business. Political and social conditions, fiscal and monetary policies, trade wars and tariffs, labor shortages, prolonged or recurring government shutdowns, regional or domestic hostilities, economic sanctions and the prospect or occurrence of more widespread conflicts could also negatively affect our business, operations and partners, consumer and business spending, including travel patterns and business investment, and demand for credit. 

Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we announced that we suspended all business operations in Russia and Belarus. The U.S., the U.K., the EU and other countries have each imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in and associated with Russia, and additional sanction packages to constrain Russia have been and continue to be proposed and adopted. The conflict in Ukraine has led to economic uncertainty and market disruptions, including significant volatility in commodity and energy prices and credit and capital markets. The broader consequences of this conflict are difficult to predict at this time, but may include further sanctions, regional instability and geopolitical shifts, increased prevalence and sophistication of cyberattacks against us, our customers, service providers and other third parties, potential retaliatory action by customers or the Russian government against companies such as us, heightened regulatory scrutiny related to sanctions compliance, increased inflation, further increases or fluctuations in commodity and energy prices, decreases in global travel, further disruptions to the global supply chain and the availability of certain natural resources and other adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions. 

The duration of the conflict in Ukraine and the extent to which it may intensify or expand beyond Ukraine are currently unknown, and such events could exacerbate or heighten many of the other risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of the 2021 Form 10-K and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

