 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The results of operations of the Company are affected by its relationships with John Deere. See &#8220;Relationships of the Company with John Deere&#8221; for additional information regarding the relationship between the Company and John Deere.

The following risks are considered material to the Company&#8217;s business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; including the risks and uncertainties described in the &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements,&#8221; the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and the risk factors of Deere &#38; Company included in Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods, and involve certain factors that are subject to change and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular portions of the business, while others could affect all the Company&#8217;s business. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the &#8220;Forward-Looking Statements&#8221; in this report are not the only risks faced by the Company.

&#8203; 

STRATEGIC RISKS 

The profitability and financial condition of the Company&#8217;s operations are dependent upon the operations of John Deere. 

The Company&#8217;s volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products. The results of operations of the Company are affected by its relationships with John Deere, including, among other items, the terms on which the Company acquires Receivables and borrows funds from John Deere, the reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs from John Deere, the compensation paid by John Deere in connection with the Company&#8217;s purchase of trade receivables from John Deere, and the payment to John Deere for various expenses applicable to the Company&#8217;s operations. In addition, John Deere and the Company have joint access to certain lines of credit. 

If there were significant changes in the production or sales of John Deere products; the quality or resale value of John Deere equipment; John Deere&#8217;s liquidity, capital position, debt ratings, and access to capital markets; the reputation of John Deere; or inflationary pressures, supply chain constraints, or other factors impacting John Deere or its products, such changes could significantly affect the Company&#8217;s profitability, financial condition, and access to capital markets. In addition, if there were changes to sales incentive programs offered by John Deere to retail customers, in which the Company receives reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs, this could decrease the Company&#8217;s market share of John Deere financed equipment, volumes, and profitability.

International, national, and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies (particularly those related to or restricting global trade) and government farm programs and policies could significantly impair John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects. As the Company&#8217;s volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, these macroeconomic drivers could also negatively impact the Company&#39;s profitability and growth prospects. 

International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere&#8217;s products, services, and technology, or those of its customers, including protectionist policies in particular jurisdictions or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere&#8217;s global business. John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects are tied directly to the global marketplace. Restricted access to global markets impairs John Deere&#8217;s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world and limits the ability to access raw materials and high-quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. Trade restrictions, including withdrawal from or modification of existing trade agreements, negotiation of new trade agreements, non-tariff trade barriers, local content requirements, and imposition of new or retaliatory tariffs against certain countries or covering certain products, including developments in U.S.-China trade relations and sanctions against Russia, have limited, and could continue to limit, John Deere&#8217;s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets and impair John Deere&#8217;s ability to expand the business. These trade restrictions, and changes in, or uncertainty surrounding, global trade policies, may affect John Deere&#8217;s competitive position. Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales could be especially harmed by such policies because farm income strongly influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. Furthermore, trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. Additionally, changes in government farm programs and policies, including direct payment and other subsidies, can significantly influence demand for agricultural equipment as well as create unequal competition for multinational companies relative to domestic companies. 

Greater political, economic, and social uncertainty and the evolving globalization of businesses could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s competition, customer base, and product offerings and impact John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s growth opportunities globally. 

John Deere&#8217;s efforts to grow its businesses depend in part upon access to additional geographic markets, including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, and South Africa, and its success in developing market share 

and operating profitably in such markets. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, and differing local customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere&#8217;s other markets. Having business operations in various regions and countries exposes John Deere and the Company to multiple and potentially conflicting business practices, and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and are often complex and difficult to navigate, including those related to tariffs and trade regulations, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, repatriation of earnings, and advanced technologies. Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations, which can materially affect the Company&#8217;s financial results. While John Deere maintains a positive corporate image and its brands are widely recognized and valued in its traditional markets, the brands are less known in some emerging markets, which could impede John Deere&#8217;s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. 

The conflict between Russia and Ukraine could adversely impact John Deere&#8217;s business and financial results. 

On February 24, 2022, John Deere suspended shipments of machines and service parts to Russia and Belarus. As a result, the Company has not offered any new financings in Russia. After assessing the impact of the Russia and Ukraine conflict on John Deere&#8217;s operations within Russia, John Deere&#8217;s senior management in the U.S. decided to initiate a voluntary employee-separation program, which reduced overall headcount in Russia. John Deere may further reduce or discontinue operations in Russia depending on the continued evolution of the conflict, monetary, currency or payment controls, restrictions on access to financial institutions, supply and transportation challenges, sanctions and export controls and counter-sanctions, or other circumstances and considerations. John Deere&#8217;s U.S. senior management continues to closely monitor all risks to John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations in the region. The broader consequences of the Russia and Ukraine conflict such as, embargoes, regional instability, geopolitical shift, access to natural gas, higher energy prices, potential retaliatory action by the Russian government, including nationalization of foreign businesses, increased tensions between the U.S. and countries in which John Deere and the Company operate, and the extent of the conflict&#8217;s effect on the global economy, cannot be predicted, including the extent to which the conflict may heighten other risks disclosed herein. Ultimately, these or other factors could result in further loss or write-downs of other operating assets and working capital for John Deere. For further description of the Company&#8217;s outstanding exposure related to Russia, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for John Deere&#8217;s equipment and services, limit access to funding, and result in higher funding costs for John Deere and the Company. 

The demand for John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s products and services can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, rising interest rates, cautious consumer spending, changes in consumer practices due to a possible recession, lower corporate earnings, and lower business investment. Negative or uncertain economic conditions that cause John Deere&#8217;s customers to lack confidence in the general economic outlook can significantly reduce their likelihood of purchasing John Deere&#8217;s equipment. The COVID-19 pandemic (COVID), geopolitical instability, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and other global events have significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. Some of the results of these events include supply chain challenges, inflation, high interest rates, foreign currency exchange volatility, and volatility in global capital markets. These adverse economic events have and may continue to adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations.

Sustained negative economic conditions and outlook also affect housing starts, energy prices and demand, and other construction, which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere&#8217;s turf operations and its construction and forestry segments are dependent on construction activity and have also been affected by recent adverse economic conditions. In fiscal 2022, supply constraints, shortage of turf inventory, and softening customer demand have affected John Deere&#8217;s production and sales of consumer products within these segments. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s results of operations. 

If negative economic conditions affect the overall farm economy, there could be a similar effect on John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales. In addition, uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook, such as market volatility and continued interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve, have caused and could continue to cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce the Company&#8217;s earnings and cash flows. Additionally, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s investment management activities could be adversely affected by changes 

in the equity and bond markets, including the recent volatility of the United Kingdom&#8217;s bond market, which would negatively affect earnings.

Changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of bio-energy could affect the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for certain John Deere equipment and could also result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. 

Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world&#8217;s growing food and bio-energy demands, driven in part by government policies, including those related to climate change, and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower agricultural commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment and result in higher credit losses. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere&#8217;s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Furthermore, changing bio-energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating bio-fuel utilization could affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for John Deere&#8217;s diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs for John Deere related to equipment fuel standards. These changes could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

John Deere and the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial operating model and Leap Ambitions. 

John Deere&#8217;s failure to realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial operating model and related business strategies in production systems, precision technologies, and aftermarket support could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition. Several factors could impact John Deere&#8217;s ability to successfully execute the Smart Industrial operating model, including, among other things, failure to accurately assess market opportunity and the technology required to address such opportunity; failure to develop and introduce new technologies or lack of adoption of such technologies by John Deere&#8217;s customers; and failure to holistically execute lifecycle solutions. In addition, if John Deere is unable to optimize its capital allocation in connection with the operating model, including capital allocation for the development and delivery of financial solutions provided by the Company, it may not be able to realize the full benefits of John Deere&#8217;s Smart Industrial operating model, which could have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s financial condition or results of operations. 

Similarly, John Deere may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Leap Ambitions and related goals in the expected timeline, or at all. As part of its Leap Ambitions framework, John Deere adopted various goals that it expects to achieve by 2026 or 2030, as applicable. John Deere may not be able to achieve these goals for a number of reasons, some of which may be out of its control. For example, John Deere&#8217;s estimates and assumptions related to efficiency of its products and the adoption of precision technology may not be accurate; certain materials, such as quality battery cells, may become unavailable or too costly; or infrastructure required to achieve its goals, such as sufficient charging stations, may become too costly or may not occur on the expected timeline. The actual or perceived failure of John Deere to achieve its Leap Ambitions could negatively impact its ability to execute the Smart Industrial operating model, and could harm John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and business. 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to understand its customers&#8217; specific preferences and requirements, and to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer demand, could significantly affect its business results. 

John Deere&#8217;s ability to match new product offerings to diverse global customers&#8217; anticipated preferences for different types and sizes of equipment and various equipment features and functionality, at affordable prices, is critical to its success. In addition, the Company&#8217;s ability to anticipate and deliver on customers&#8217; changing preferences for financial solutions, is critical to its success. This requires a thorough understanding of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s existing and potential customers on a global basis. Failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs at competitive prices ahead of competitors could have a significant adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business.

Customer preferences in the markets served by John Deere could change as these markets transition to less carbon-intensive business models. Ongoing social and regulatory focus on sustainability and the impact of policies and 

consumer preferences on the construction, forestry, and agriculture industries mean that change is imminent. As regulations and social pressure drive change, John Deere must be proactive in monitoring trends and developing alternatives and enhancements that complement its product offerings. For example, John Deere may be unable to keep up with the rising demand for electric agriculture, turf, and construction equipment. 

The development of alternative farming techniques, carbon sequestration technologies, and new low-carbon biofuels could change farmers&#8217; business models and equipment needs. If John Deere fails to properly develop or invest in new technologies to meet changing customer demands, John Deere will be at risk of losing potential sources of revenue, which could affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s future financial results. 

John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s ability to adapt in highly competitive markets could affect its business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

John Deere operates in a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. John Deere competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. In addition, John Deere&#8217;s industry is attracting non-traditional competitors, including technology-focused companies and start-up ventures. John Deere competes on the basis of product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service, and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays, or John Deere&#8217;s failure to price its products competitively could adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition, which could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results.

The equipment finance industry in which the Company competes is highly competitive. We compete for customers with commercial banks and finance and leasing companies based upon service, finance rates charged, and other finance terms. In addition, the competitive landscape is evolving as technology is unlocking new capabilities for traditional competitors and enabling new digital entrants. The Company&#8217;s ability to maintain and expand our market share is contingent upon us offering competitive pricing, developing and maintaining strong relationships with dealers and customers, making substantial investments in our technological infrastructure, and effectively responding to changes in the agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment markets. In addition, any expansion into new markets may require us to compete with more experienced and established market participants. Failure to effectively manage these challenges could adversely affect our market share, and pressure to provide competitive pricing could have a negative effect on the Company&#8217;s results of operations and financial condition.

John Deere relies on a network of independent dealers to manage the distribution of its products. If dealers are unsuccessful with their sales and business operations, it could have an adverse effect on overall John Deere sales and revenue. 

John Deere relies on the capability of John Deere dealers to develop and implement effective sales plans to create demand among purchasers for the equipment and related products and services that the dealers purchase from John Deere. If John Deere&#8217;s dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then John Deere will be unable to grow its sales and revenue, which would have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s financial condition. In addition, the dealer channel&#8217;s ability to support and service precision technology solutions and emerging power solutions may affect customers&#8217; acceptance and adoption rates of these products.

Dealers may have trouble funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations due to adverse business conditions resulting from negative economic effects or other factors. Dealers may exit or John Deere may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealers if they are unable to meet customer needs. The unplanned loss of any John Deere dealers could lead to inadequate market coverage, negative customer impressions of John Deere, and may adversely impact John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s ability to collect receivables that are associated with that dealer.

ENVIRONMENTAL, CLIMATE, AND WEATHER RISKS 

Unfavorable weather conditions or natural calamities that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment could directly and indirectly affect John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s business. 

Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of John Deere&#8217;s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment. 

The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperature affects the rate of growth, maturity, and quality of crops. Temperatures outside normal ranges can also cause crop failure or decreased yields, and may also affect disease incidence. Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, droughts, diseases, and pests, either as a physical effect of climate change or otherwise, have had and could in the future have significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for agricultural equipment and the financial condition and credit risk of our customers and John Deere&#8217;s dealers. Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region, particularly during the important spring selling season, may adversely affect sales of some turf equipment. Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and unusually rainy weather can similarly cause lower sales volumes.

Governmental actions designed to address climate change and the emergence of new technologies and business models in connection with the transition to a lower-carbon economy could adversely affect John Deere and its customers. 

There is global scientific consensus that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions continue to alter the composition of Earth&#8217;s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations have led to new international, national, regional, and local legislative and regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including John Deere and the Company, are continuing to look for ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources or the imposition of carbon pricing mechanisms could result in additional costs to John Deere and the Company in the form of taxes or emission allowances, required facilities improvements, and increased energy costs, which would increase John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating costs through higher utility, transportation, and materials costs. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also affect customer operations and demand for John Deere equipment. Additional international and national European regulations relating to climate and environmental risk, which are continually evolving, could affect the lending operations and climate-risk processes developed by the Company. Regulators in Europe and the U.S. have also focused efforts on increased disclosure related to climate change and mitigation efforts. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has included in its regulatory agenda potential rulemaking on climate change disclosures that, if adopted, could significantly increase compliance burdens and associated regulatory costs and complexity.

FINANCIAL RISKS 

Changes in government banking, monetary, and fiscal policies could have a negative effect on the Company. 

Policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues may not be effective and could have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s customers and markets. The Company&#8217;s operations and results could also be affected by financial regulatory reform that could, among other things, have an adverse effect on the Company and its customers by limiting their ability to enter into hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment, due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. The Company&#8217;s and John Deere&#8217;s operations, including those outside of the United States, may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.

Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on John Deere and the Company. 

John Deere and the Company are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretations. If John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an 

amount more than amounts previously accrued, John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company&#8217;s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency exchange and translation risk. 

The Company operates in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. The Company is subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that its costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which it earns revenues. Additionally, the reporting currency for the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the Company&#8217;s assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are denominated in other countries&#8217; currencies, which are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates in the Company&#8217;s reported consolidated financial statements. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currencies. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide the Company with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego any benefits that may result from favorable fluctuations in such rates. 

Because the Company is subject to interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can reduce demand for equipment, adversely affect interest margins, and limit access to capital markets while increasing borrowing costs. 

Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of the Company&#8217;s customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers&#8217; ability to repay obligations to the Company. In response to increasing inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve began to raise interest rates in March 2022 for the first time in over three years, and has signaled it expects to make additional rate increases. Rising interest rates could cause credit market dislocations, which could have an impact on funding costs, which are important to the Company because such costs affect the Company&#8217;s ability to offer customers competitive financing rates. While the Company strives to match the interest rate characteristics of its financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s net interest rate margin&#8212;the difference between the yield the Company earns on its assets and the interest rates the Company pays for funding, which could in turn affect the Company&#8217;s net interest income and earnings.

In addition, actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company and can increase the Company&#8217;s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position.

Further, due to the cessation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;), the Company has entered into financial transactions such as credit agreements, receivables, derivatives, and notes that use the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (&#8220;SOFR&#8221;) or the Sterling Overnight Index Average (&#8220;SONIA&#8221;) as interest rate benchmarks. SOFR and SONIA are calculated differently from LIBOR and have inherent differences, which could give rise to uncertainties, including the limited historical data and volatility in the benchmark rates. The full effects of the transition to SOFR, SONIA, or other rates remain uncertain.

Because the Company is a financing company, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact the Company&#8217;s operations and financial results. 

Negative economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the Company operates. The Company provides financing for a significant portion of John Deere&#8217;s sales in many of the countries in which the Company operates. The Company is exposed to the risk that customers and others will default on contractual obligations and may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company&#8217;s inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support its financing activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business. The Company&#8217;s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions could reduce customer confidence levels, resulting in declines in credit applications and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could materially impact the Company&#8217;s write-offs and provision for credit losses.

The Company&#8217;s results could be adversely affected by a decrease in the value of used equipment or higher than estimated returns of equipment on operating lease. 

The Company sells repossessed equipment and equipment returned to us at the end of lease terms, primarily through the John Deere dealer network. The Company estimates the end-of-lease term residual value at the inception of the operating leases based on a number of factors, including lease term, expected hours of usage, historical wholesale sale prices, return experience, intended use of the equipment, market dynamics and trends, and third-party residual guarantees. Used equipment values may decrease as a result of any one or a combination of factors including market conditions, supply of and demand for used equipment, and technological advancements in new equipment. Depressed prices for used equipment may result in, or increase, a loss upon our disposition of off-lease or repossessed equipment, and in the case of repossessed equipment, we may be unable to collect the resulting deficiency. In addition, lower residual value estimates could result in increasing operating lease depreciation, impairment losses, and losses on the sale of matured operating lease inventory, which would decrease the Company&#8217;s earnings.

MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONAL RISKS 

Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components, and whole goods have resulted and could continue to result in significant disruptions to the supply chain causing production disruptions, increased costs and lower profits on sales of John Deere products. As the Company&#8217;s volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, supply chain disruptions and impacts of price increases could negatively impact the Company&#8217;s future volumes. 

John Deere requires access to various raw materials, components, and whole goods at competitive prices to manufacture and distribute its products. The price and availability of these materials have varied significantly in the last 24 months and are expected to continue to fluctuate due to inflation, geopolitical and economic uncertainty, and regulatory and policy instability, including import tariffs and trade agreements. The latter have the potential to significantly increase production and logistics costs and have a material negative effect on the profitability of John Deere&#8217;s business, particularly if John Deere is unable to recover the increased costs due to market considerations or other factors. John Deere relies on suppliers to acquire raw materials, components, and whole goods required to manufacture its products. Significant disruptions to the supply chain resulting from shortages of raw materials, components, and whole goods has and could continue to adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to meet commitments to customers. During fiscal 2022, the supply chain challenges in combination with demand for John Deere&#8217;s products resulted in a heavier back-end loaded year for industry retail orders. As the result of the COVID pandemic, geopolitical instability, and other global events, John Deere has experienced changes in the availability and prices of these raw materials, components, whole goods, and freight. Global logistics network challenges include shortages of shipping containers, ocean freight capacity constraints, international port delays, trucking and chassis shortages, and railway and airfreight capacity, which have resulted in delays, shortages of key manufacturing components, increased order backlogs, increased transportation costs, and production inefficiencies from a higher number of partially completed machines in inventory, which increased John Deere&#8217;s overall production and overhead costs. 

In an effort to mitigate raw material shortages and supply chain constraints, John Deere has increased the list price of its products and worked with suppliers to ensure optimum inventory levels. However, if customers are unwilling to accept price increases in John Deere products or John Deere is unable to offset the increase in costs, raw material shortages could have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s operations. Continued or increased fluctuations in costs of materials or inflation generally and continued supply chain challenges could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s business, which could negatively impact the Company.

RESOURCES RISKS 

The Company&#8217;s ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could affect its ability to execute its strategy. 

The Company&#8217;s continued success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background, and experience as well as its ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new employees, or inadequate resources to train, integrate, and retain 

qualified employees, could impair the Company&#8217;s ability to execute its business strategy and could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business. In addition, while the Company strives to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, the Company&#8217;s operations or ability to execute its business strategy and meet its business objectives may be affected by the loss of employees, particularly when departures involve larger numbers of employees, such as those the Company could experience if a surge occurs in the number of employees voluntarily leaving their jobs. Higher rates of employee separations may adversely affect the Company through decreased employee morale, the loss of knowledge of departing employees, and the devotion of resources to recruiting and onboarding new employees.

Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company&#8217;s information technology infrastructure could interfere with the Company&#8217;s operations and could compromise the information of the Company as well as its customers and/or John Deere dealers, exposing the Company to liability that could cause the Company&#8217;s business and reputation to suffer. 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including loan application and collection of payments from dealers and other purchasers of John Deere equipment. The Company uses information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Additionally, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and the proprietary business information of the Company&#8217;s customers and John Deere dealers, as well as personally identifiable information of the Company&#8217;s customers and employees, in data centers, which are often owned by third parties, and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to the Company&#8217;s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures, including a vulnerability disclosure program, and business continuity plans, the Company&#8217;s information technology networks and infrastructure have been and may be vulnerable to intrusion, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, employee, supplier, or dealer error or malfeasance, supply chain compromise, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, ransomware or other malware, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, or other events. Although the Company has not suffered any significant cyber incidents that resulted in a material business impact, it has from time to time been the target of malicious cyber threat actors. The occurrence of any significant event could compromise the Company&#8217;s networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, obtained, publicly disclosed, lost, altered, misused, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, alteration, misuse or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, government investigations, liability or regulatory penalties, disruption to the Company&#8217;s operations, and damage to the Company&#8217;s reputation, which could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, the Company may need to invest additional resources to protect information security.

LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS 

The Company&#8217;s global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, and other adverse effects. 

The Company&#8217;s global operations are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, many of which are complex, frequently changing, and subject to varying interpretations. These laws and regulations cover a broad spectrum of subject areas, including advertising; anti&#8211;money laundering; antitrust; consumer finance; environmental, climate-related, health, and safety; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; foreign ownership and investment; human rights, labor, and employment; and data privacy. These laws may vary substantially within the different markets in which the Company operates. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and may further increase the cost of conducting the Company&#8217;s global operations. In addition, the Company must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all applicable foreign anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, regardless of whether those practices are culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although the Company has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate 

such laws and regulations or the Company&#8217;s policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil sanctions and have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Changes to existing laws and regulations or changes to how they are interpreted or the implementation of new, more stringent laws or regulations could adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business by increasing compliance costs, limiting the Company&#8217;s ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to the Company&#8217;s business practices, or otherwise making the Company&#8217;s products and services less attractive to customers. Legislative and regulatory changes and other actions that could potentially affect the Company&#8217;s business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse effects from such measures.

The Company is subject to governmental laws, regulations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection and any inability or perceived inability of the Company to address these requirements could adversely affect our business. 

The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The Company collects personal information and other data as integral parts of its business processes and activities. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory and other governmental bodies. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union and other relevant jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal information and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions. The European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, among others, impose stringent data protection requirements and provide significant penalties for noncompliance. New privacy laws will continue to come into effect around the world in the future. Any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to the Company or Company officials, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business.

Legal proceedings and disputes in which, the Company is, and may in the future, be involved could harm the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. 

The Company is subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks around the world. The Company faces risks of exposure to various types of claims, lawsuits, and government inquiries or investigations in the ordinary course of business, the most prevalent of which relate to retail credit matters. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. The defense of lawsuits and government inquiries or investigations has resulted and may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management&#8217;s time and attention away from business operations. Such legal proceedings may also affect the Company&#8217;s assessment and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments exceeding our reserves.

GENERAL RISKS 

John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and brand could be damaged by negative publicity. 

John Deere&#8217;s brand has worldwide recognition and significantly contributes to the success of its and the Company&#8217;s business. John Deere&#8217;s reputation is critical to growing its customer base. John Deere&#8217;s brand depends on the ability to maintain a positive customer perception of the business, including the core values of integrity, quality, innovation, and commitment. Negative claims or publicity involving John Deere, its products or services, its culture and values, customer data, or any of its key employees or suppliers, could damage John Deere&#8217;s reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Damage to John Deere&#8217;s reputation could adversely impact its and the Company&#8217;s ability to attract new and maintain existing customers, employees, dealers, and business relationships. 

Additionally, negative or inaccurate postings, articles, or comments on social media and the internet about John Deere could generate negative publicity that could damage the reputation of John Deere, the Company, or the John Deere brand. 

Further, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against John Deere or the Company, or by John Deere or the Company, could also damage John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s reputation and brand image, undermine customer confidence, and reduce long-term demand for John Deere equipment, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to John Deere&#8217;s or the Company&#8217;s operations. If the reputation, culture or image of John Deere&#8217;s brands are damaged, or John Deere or the Company receive negative publicity, then the Company&#8217;s revenue, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Unexpected events have and may in the future increase the Company&#8217;s cost of doing business or disrupt its operations. 

The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, acts of terrorism, epidemics and pandemics (such as the COVID pandemic), civil unrest, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other forms of severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which the Company operates, or in which John Deere suppliers are located, have and could in the future adversely affect the Company&#8217;s operations and financial performance. Such events have and could cause complete or partial closure of one or more of John Deere&#8217;s manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, and disruption and delay in the transport of John Deere products to dealers, end-users, and distribution centers. Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection from all the costs that may arise from such events.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers, and customers, and therefore on John Deere&#8217;s operations, are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographic regions. These potential physical effects may adversely affect the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and the financial performance of John Deere&#8217;s and the Company&#8217;s operations.

