 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 

The results of our operations are affected by our relationships with John Deere. See &#8220;Our Relationships with John Deere&#8221; for additional information regarding our relationships with John Deere.

The following risks are considered material to our business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; (MD&#38;A), including the risks and uncertainties described in the Forward-Looking Statements, the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and the risk factors of Deere &#38; Company 

included in Exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods. They involve certain factors that are subject to change and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Forward-Looking Statements in this report are not the only risks we face.

STRATEGY RISKS 

Our profitability and the financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of John Deere. 

Our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products. The results of our operations are affected by our relationship with John Deere, including, among other items, the terms on which we acquire Receivables and borrow funds from John Deere, the reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs from John Deere, the compensation paid by John Deere in connection with our purchase of trade receivables from John Deere, the payment to John Deere for various expenses applicable to our operations, and payments made to or received from John Deere related to our international support agreement with John Deere. In addition, we have joint access to certain lines of credit with John Deere. 

If there were significant changes in the production or sales of John Deere products; the quality or resale value of John Deere equipment; John Deere&#8217;s liquidity, capital position, debt ratings, and access to capital markets; the reputation of John Deere; or high inflation, high interest rates, supply chain constraints, or other factors impacting John Deere or its products, such changes could significantly affect our profitability, financial condition, and access to capital markets. In addition, if there were reductions to sales incentive programs offered by John Deere to retail customers, in which we receive reimbursement for interest waiver and low-rate finance programs, these changes could decrease our market share of John Deere financed equipment, volumes, and profitability.

John Deere relies on a network of independent dealers to manage the distribution of its products and services. If dealers are unsuccessful with their sales and business operations, it could have an adverse effect on overall John Deere sales and revenue. 

John Deere relies on the capability of its dealers to develop and implement effective sales plans to create demand among purchasers for the equipment and related products and services that dealers purchase from John Deere. If John Deere&#8217;s dealers are unsuccessful in these endeavors, John Deere will be unable to grow its sales and revenue, which would have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our financial condition. 

John Deere&#8217;s dealers carry inventories of finished products as part of their operations and adjust those inventories based on future needs and market conditions, including the level of used equipment inventory. If the inventory levels of John Deere dealers are higher than they desire, they may postpone equipment purchases, which could cause John Deere&#8217;s sales to be lower and negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s and our results. Similarly, John Deere&#8217;s results could be negatively impacted through the loss of time-sensitive sales if John Deere dealers do not maintain inventory levels sufficient to meet customer demand. 

In addition, the dealer channel&#8217;s ability to support and service precision technology solutions and emerging power solutions may affect customers&#8217; acceptance and adoption rates of these products. The unavailability of specialized technicians to service John Deere&#8217;s equipment may result in overburdening dealers&#8217; servicing capacity. 

Dealers may exit or John Deere may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealers if they are unable to meet customer needs. The unplanned loss of any John Deere dealers could lead to inadequate market coverage, negative customer impressions of John Deere, and may adversely impact John Deere&#8217;s and our ability to collect receivables that are associated with that dealer. Dealers could also have trouble funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations due to adverse business conditions resulting from negative economic effects or other factors.

John Deere may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions. 

John Deere&#8217;s failure to realize the anticipated benefits of its Smart Industrial Operating Model and related business strategies in production systems, precision technologies, and aftermarket support, as well as failure to have selected a business strategy that aligns with its customer needs and market trends, could have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our operational and financial results based on our dependence on John Deere operations. Several factors could impact John Deere&#8217;s ability to successfully execute its Smart Industrial Operating Model, including, among other things:

##TABLE_START &#9679; Failure to accurately assess market opportunities and the technology required to address such opportunities; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Failure to develop and introduce new technologies or lack of adoption of such technologies by John Deere&#8217;s customers; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Failure to holistically provide lifecycle solutions; and ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; The adoption of new regulations or policies supporting and/or subsidizing outputs that are inconsistent with John Deere&#8217;s strategy, such as policies that have the effect of encouraging or supporting the use of conventional sources of energy. ##TABLE_END 

In addition, if John Deere is unable to optimize its capital allocation in connection with the Smart Industrial Operating Model, including capital allocation for the development and delivery of financial solutions we provide, we and John Deere may not be able to realize the full benefits of the Smart Industrial Operating Model, which could have an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our financial condition and results of operations. 

Similarly, John Deere may not realize the anticipated benefits of its Leap Ambitions and related goals in the expected timelines, or at all. As part of the Leap Ambitions, John Deere adopted various goals it expects to achieve by 2026 or 2030, but these goals and their timelines might be modified or updated. John Deere may modify or not be able to achieve these goals for a variety of reasons, some of which may be beyond its control. Examples include:

##TABLE_START &#9679; John Deere&#8217;s estimates and assumptions related to efficiency of its products and the adoption of precision technology may not be accurate; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Certain materials, such as quality battery cells, may become unavailable or too costly; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; John Deere&#8217;s customers may not embrace the value proposition of the Solutions as a Service license model; and ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; The infrastructure required to achieve John Deere&#8217;s goals, such as sufficient charging stations or fuel availability, may become too costly or may not be developed on the expected timelines. ##TABLE_END 

John Deere&#8217;s and our reputation and brand could be damaged by negative publicity. 

John Deere&#8217;s brand has worldwide recognition and contributes to the success of both our and John Deere's businesses. John Deere&#8217;s reputation is critical to growing our customer base. John Deere&#8217;s brand depends on the ability to maintain a positive customer perception of the business. Negative claims or publicity involving John Deere, its products or services, its culture and values, its stance on environmental, social, and governance topics, customer data, or any of its key employees or suppliers, damage John Deere&#8217;s reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Furthermore, customers and other stakeholders have evolving, varied and often times conflicting expectations regarding John Deere&#8217;s culture, values, and business, which makes it difficult to achieve a uniform positive perception amongst all stakeholders.

Additionally, negative or inaccurate postings, articles, or comments on social media, the internet or the press about John Deere or us has generated negative publicity that could damage the reputation of John Deere, us, or the John Deere brand. For example, in fiscal year 2024, John Deere experienced negative social media campaigns related to its approach to diversity and inclusion, its customers&#8217; right to maintain and safely repair their equipment, including with respect to its Memorandum of Understanding with the American Farm Bureau Federation, reductions in workforce, and production relocation. Further, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against John Deere or us, or legal proceedings initiated by John Deere or us, also damage John Deere&#8217;s and our reputation and brand image, undermining customer confidence, and reducing long-term demand for John Deere equipment, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to John Deere&#8217;s or our operations. If the reputation, culture, or image of John Deere&#8217;s brands are damaged, or John Deere or we receive negative publicity, then our revenue, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

OPERATIONAL RISKS 

John Deere&#8217;s and our financial results largely depend upon the agricultural market business cycle, as well as general economic conditions and outlook. Negative conditions in the agricultural industry and general economy cause weakened demand for John Deere&#8217;s equipment and services, limit access to funding, and result in higher funding costs for us and John Deere. 

John Deere&#8217;s and our success largely depends on the vitality of the agricultural industry. Historically, the agricultural industry has been cyclical and subject to a variety of economic and other factors. Sales of agricultural equipment, in turn, are also cyclical and generally reflect the economic health of the agricultural industry. The economic health of the agricultural industry is affected by numerous factors, including farm income, farmland values, debt levels and financing costs, all of which are influenced by the levels of commodity and protein prices, world grain stocks, acreage available and planted, crop yields, agricultural product demand, soil conditions, farm input costs, government policies, and government subsidies. Downturns in the agricultural industry due to these and other factors, which could vary by market, have resulted in decreases in demand for agricultural equipment, adversely affecting John Deere&#8217;s and our performance.

The demand for John Deere&#8217;s and our products and services depends on the fundamentals in the markets in which we operate and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, high interest rates, cautious consumer spending, inflation, lower corporate earnings, and lower business investment. In fiscal year 2024, unfavorable market conditions resulted in lower sales volumes and higher sales discounts for John Deere, and higher receivable write offs and a higher provision for credit losses for John Deere and us. We and John Deere expect certain of these conditions to persist in fiscal year 2025. Changes in interest rates and the agricultural market business cycle are driven by factors outside of John Deere&#8217;s and our control, and as a result neither we nor John Deere can reasonably foresee when these conditions will fully subside.

Sustained general negative economic conditions and outlook also affect housing starts, energy prices and demand, and other construction, which dampens demand for certain construction equipment. John Deere&#8217;s turf operations and its construction and forestry segments are dependent on construction activity and have also been affected by recent adverse economic conditions. Decreases in construction activity and housing starts have had a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s and our financial results.

Uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook, such as market volatility or interest rate changes, have caused and could continue to cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce our earnings and cash flows.

We may be unable to manage increasing political, economic, and social uncertainty in certain regions of the world, which could significantly change the dynamics of John Deere&#8217;s and our competition, customer base, and product offerings globally. 

John Deere&#8217;s efforts to grow its business depends in part upon access to and developing market share and profitability in additional geographic markets, including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, China, Commonwealth of Independent States, India, and South Africa. There are various risks associated with John Deere&#8217;s and our global footprint, including, but not limited to, the following:

##TABLE_START &#9679; In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, and differing customer product preferences and requirements than John Deere&#8217;s other markets. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Having business operations in various regions and countries exposes us and John Deere to multiple and potentially conflicting business practices, and legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change. These practices and legal requirements are often complex and difficult to navigate, including those related to tariffs and trade regulations, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, repatriation of earnings, and advanced technologies. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Expanding business operations globally also increases exposure to currency fluctuations, which can materially affect our financial results. ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#9679; While John Deere&#8217;s brands are widely recognized in its traditional markets, they are less known in some emerging markets, which could impede John Deere&#8217;s efforts to successfully compete in these markets. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Changing U.S. export controls and sanctions on various foreign countries and on various parties could affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to provide aftermarket warranty support for its equipment, sell products, and could otherwise impact John Deere&#8217;s and our reputation and business, including our ability to collect receivables. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Market uncertainty and volatility in various geographies have been magnified as a result of potential shifts in U.S. and foreign trade, economic, and other policies following the 2024 U.S. presidential and congressional elections. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Geopolitical tensions, including the Russia/Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East, have also exacerbated market volatility and affected agricultural global production and demand levels. ##TABLE_END 

We could suffer operational and financial harm if our use of models and data fail to properly anticipate and manage risk. 

We use models to forecast losses, project revenue and expenses, assess and control our operations and financial condition, perform automated credit decisioning, assist in capital planning, and forecast and assess capital and liquidity requirements for credit, market, operational and strategic risks. However, models are subject to inherent limitations from simplifying assumptions, uncertainty regarding economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks. Our models may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, unanticipated market movements, customer behavior, and liquidity, which could limit their effectiveness and require timely recalibration. In addition, our models may be adversely impacted by human error and may not be effective if we fail to properly oversee and review them at regular intervals and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring processes. We use models and other data-based policies, programs, and processes to identify potential fraud risk from the deliberate misrepresentation or concealment of information material to a transaction. Regardless of the steps we take to help confirm effective controls, monitor and test, implement new technology, and implement new processes, we could suffer operational and financial harm if our models and data fail to properly anticipate and help us manage risks.

Our results could be adversely affected by a decrease in the value of used equipment or higher than estimated returns of equipment on operating lease .

We sell repossessed equipment and equipment returned to us at the end-of-lease terms, primarily through the John Deere dealer network. We estimate the end-of-lease term residual value at the inception of the operating leases based on a number of factors, including lease term, expected hours of usage, historical wholesale sale prices, return experience, intended equipment use, market dynamics and trends, and third-party residual guarantees. Used equipment values may decrease as a result of any one or a combination of factors including market conditions, supply of and demand for used equipment, and technological advancements in new equipment. Depressed prices for used equipment may result in, or increase, a loss upon our disposition of off-lease or repossessed equipment, and in the case of repossessed equipment, we may be unable to collect the resulting deficiency. In addition, lower residual value estimates could result in increasing operating lease depreciation, impairment losses, and losses on the sale of matured operating lease inventory, which would decrease our earnings.

Because we are a financing company, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact our operations and financial results. 

Negative economic conditions have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which we operate. We provide financing for a significant portion of John Deere&#8217;s sales in many of the countries in which we operate. We are vulnerable to customers and others defaulting on contractual obligations and have experienced, and may continue to experience, write-offs and credit losses that, in some cases, exceed our expectations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as a result of elevated delinquencies. Our inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support our financing activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. 

Changes in interest rate or market liquidity conditions, as well as changes in government banking, monetary, and fiscal policies, could adversely affect our financials and our earnings and/or cash flows. 

While central banks began cutting their policy interest rates in the latter part of fiscal year 2024, interest rates remain above recent norms. High interest rates can have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of our customers, either or both of which can negatively affect customer demand for John Deere equipment and customers&#8217; ability to repay their obligations to us. While we strive to match the interest rate characteristics of our financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates have had an adverse effect on our financing spreads&#8212;the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rates we pay for funding&#8212;which has affected our earnings.

In addition, actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for us and can increase our cost of capital and hurt our competitive position.

Moreover, policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues have a material impact on our customers and markets. 

Our operations and results could also be affected by financial regulatory reform that could, among other things, have an adverse effect on us and our customers by limiting their ability to enter hedging transactions or to finance purchases of John Deere products. Government policies on spending can also affect John Deere, especially the construction and forestry segment, due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. John Deere and our operations, including those outside of the U.S., may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets.

Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components, and whole goods have resulted and could result in disruptions to the supply chain causing production disruptions, increased costs, and lower profits on sales of John Deere products. As our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, supply chain disruptions and impacts of price increases could negatively impact our future volumes. 

John Deere requires access to various raw materials, components, and whole goods at competitive prices to manufacture and distribute its products.

John Deere has experienced changes in the availability and prices of raw materials, components, whole goods, and freight over the past several years, especially in fiscal years 2021 and 2022. Global logistics network challenges resulted in delays, shortages of key manufacturing components, increased order backlogs, increased transportation costs, and production inefficiencies from a higher number of partially completed machines in inventory, which increased John Deere&#8217;s overall production and overhead costs. Increases in such costs have had an adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s business operations. While John Deere has seen stabilization in the supply chain and inflation, John Deere anticipates potential fluctuations due to continued geopolitical and economic uncertainty, and regulatory and policy instability, including import tariffs and trade agreements. The latter have the potential to significantly increase production and logistics costs and have a material negative effect on the profitability of John Deere&#8217;s business, particularly if John Deere is unable to recover the increased costs due to market considerations or other factors.

John Deere relies on its suppliers to acquire the raw materials, components, and whole goods required to manufacture its products. Significant disruptions to the supply chain resulting from shortages of raw materials, components, and whole goods have and could continue to adversely affect John Deere&#8217;s ability to meet commitments to its customers. Work interruption or union strikes by employees of suppliers could also contribute to disruptions within John Deere&#8217;s supply chain. In addition, certain materials and components used in John Deere products are acquired from a single supplier or are proprietary in nature and cannot be alternatively sourced expeditiously. Furthermore, if John Deere&#8217;s customers are unwilling to accept price increases for its products, or if John Deere is unable to offset the increases in costs, raw material costs or shortages could have a material adverse effect on John Deere&#8217;s operational or financial results, which could negatively impact us.

Unfavorable weather conditions or natural catastrophes that reduce agricultural production and demand for agriculture and turf equipment could directly and indirectly affect John Deere&#8217;s and our business. 

The purchasing decisions of John Deere&#8217;s customers, particularly the purchasers of agriculture and turf equipment, can be significantly affected by poor or unusual weather conditions. Such conditions include: 

##TABLE_START &#9679; Insufficient levels of rain, which prevent farmers from planting new crops and may cause growing crops to die or result in lower yields; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Excessive rain or flooding can prevent planting from occurring at optimal times and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Temperatures outside normal ranges, which can cause crop failure or decreased yields and may also affect disease incidence; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Natural disasters such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, droughts, diseases, wildfires, and pests, either as a physical effect of climate change or otherwise, which have had, and could in the future have, significant negative effects on agricultural and livestock production; ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic region, particularly during the important spring selling season; and ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Drought conditions can adversely affect sales of certain mowing equipment and can similarly cause lower sales volume. ##TABLE_END 

Each of these conditions could negatively affect demand for agricultural and turf equipment and the financial condition and credit risk of our customers and John Deere&#8217;s dealers.

Unexpected events have increased and may in the future increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. 

The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, acts of terrorism, epidemics and pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), civil unrest, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in other countries in which we operate, or in which John Deere suppliers are located, have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events have caused and could cause complete or partial closure of one or more of John Deere&#8217;s manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, and disruption and delay in the transport of John Deere products to dealers, end-users, and distribution centers. Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection from all the costs that may arise from such events.

The potential physical impacts of climate change on John Deere&#8217;s facilities, suppliers, and customers, and therefore on John Deere&#8217;s operations, are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographic regions. These potential physical effects may adversely affect the demand for John Deere&#8217;s products and the financial performance of John Deere&#8217;s and our operations.

Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on us and John Deere. 

We and John Deere are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. John Deere&#8217;s and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. John Deere&#8217;s and our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretations. If John Deere&#8217;s and our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount more than amounts previously accrued, John Deere&#8217;s and our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in foreign currencies, creating currency exchange and translation risk .

We are a global company with transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. Additionally, the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses, and revenues are denominated in other countries&#8217; currencies, which are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates and reported in our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates affect the value of those items as reflected in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value remains unchanged in the original currencies. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with some protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments, we potentially forego any benefits that may result from favorable fluctuations in such rates. 

John Deere may be affected by changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of renewable energy, which could impact the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for John Deere equipment. This could result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. 

Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world&#8217;s growing food and renewable energy demands, driven in part by government policies, including those related to climate change, and a growing world population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower agricultural commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment and result in higher credit losses. While higher commodity prices benefit John Deere&#8217;s crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, they could result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. In addition, changing energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating fuel utilization, including biofuel, affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for John Deere&#8217;s diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs for John Deere related to equipment fuel standards. These changes could have a negative effect on our results.

TALENT RISKS 

Our ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could affect our ability to execute our strategy. 

Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background, and experience, as well as our ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, difficulty in recruiting new employees, or inadequate resources to train, integrate, and retain qualified employees, could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

In addition, our culture and our values have been important contributors to our success to date and promote a sense of pride and fulfillment in our employees. Failure to preserve our culture or focus on our values could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit talent. 

While we strive to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, our operations or ability to execute our business strategy may be affected by the loss of employees, such as in connection with the reduction in workforce we conducted in fiscal year 2024. This reduction may adversely affect us as a result of decreased employee morale, the loss of institutional knowledge held by departing employees, the allocation of resources to reorganize and reassign job roles and responsibilities, and the increased risk of litigation from former employees. In addition, we may not realize the expected cost savings from the reduction in workforce. We may also conduct other workforce reductions in the future, if deemed appropriate for our business.

DIGITAL RISKS 

Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations and could compromise our information as well as information of our employees, customers, and/or John Deere dealers, exposing us to liability that could cause our business and reputation to suffer .

In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including credit application and collection of payments from John Deere dealers and our customers. We use information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. 

Additionally, we collect and store confidential data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and the proprietary business information of our customers and John Deere dealers, as well as personal data of our customers and employees in data centers which are often owned by third parties, and maintained on their information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, are critical to our business operations and strategy. 

Despite security measures, including exercises, tests, incident simulations, and system assessments designed to discover and address potential vulnerabilities, our information technology networks and infrastructure have been, and may be, vulnerable to intrusion, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, employees&#8217;, suppliers&#8217;, or dealers&#8217; errors or malfeasance, supply chain compromise, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, ransomware or other malware, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, or other events. Although we have not suffered any significant cyber incidents that resulted in a material business impact, we have from time to time been, and expect to continue to be, the target of malicious cyber threat actors. The occurrence of any significant event could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, obtained, publicly disclosed, lost, altered, misused, or stolen. Any such access, acquisition, disclosure, alteration, misuse or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, government investigations, liability or regulatory penalties, disruption or shut down of our operations, disruption or shut down of dealers&#8217; and customers&#8217; operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, unrelated third-party breach events could create a threat for our customers if their personal information has been compromised or if their John Deere log-in credentials are the same as or similar to the credentials that have been compromised on other internet sites. This threat could include the risk of unauthorized account access, data loss and fraud. In addition, we continue to incur increased costs with respect to preventing, detecting, investigating, mitigating, remediating, and recovering from cybersecurity risks, as well as any related attempted fraud. Furthermore, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, we may need to invest additional resources to enhance information security.

Technical or regulatory limitations may impact John Deere&#8217;s and our ability to effectively implement automation, autonomy, and artificial intelligence solutions. 

We and John Deere utilize automation and machine learning in some of our products, including consumer-facing features, and leverage generative artificial intelligence in our business processes. While we believe the use of these emerging technologies can present significant benefits, it also creates risks and challenges as the use of artificial intelligence is a novel business model without an established track record. Data sourcing, technology, integration and process issues, programmed bias in decision-making algorithms, concerns over intellectual property, security concerns, and the protection of privacy could impair the adoption and acceptance of autonomous machine solutions. Furthermore, any confidential information that we input into a third-party generative artificial intelligence platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including sensitive information that is used to train the third parties&#8217; model. Additionally, if the data used to train the solution or the content, analyses, or recommendations that the machine learning and intelligence applications assist in producing is deemed to be inaccurate, incomplete, biased or questionable, our brand and reputation may be harmed and we may be subject to legal liability claims. The development of our own artificial intelligence applications may require additional investment in the development of proprietary systems, models, or datasets, which are often complex, may be costly and could impact the results of our operations. Developing, testing, and deploying these technologies may also increase the cost profile of our products due to the level of investment needed to enable such initiatives . 

Disruption of John Deere&#8217;s or our technology systems or unexpected network interruption could disrupt our business. 

We and John Deere are increasingly dependent on technology systems to operate on a day-to-day basis. The failure of our technology systems to operate properly or effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or difficulty in integrating new systems, could adversely affect our business. These disruptions could result in delays, which could reduce demand for John Deere products and negatively impact our business operations. In addition, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth and new technologies, we could lose customers. Any significant disruption in our technology systems could harm our reputation and credibility and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our operations are affected by risks associated with our use of vendors and other third-party service providers. 

We rely on vendor and third-party service providers for a variety of products and services to run our core credit operations, such as customer invoicing, collections, and software solutions. This reliance exposes us to risks of those third parties failing to perform financially or contractually to our expectations. These risks could include material adverse impacts on our business, such as disruption or interruption of business activities, cyber-attacks and information security breaches, poor performance of services affecting our customer relationships, and possibilities that we could be responsible to our customers for legal and regulatory violations committed by those third parties while conducting services on our behalf. While we have implemented ongoing monitoring to address this risk, there can be no assurance that our vendor and third-party relationships will not have a material adverse impact on our business. 

COMPLIANCE RISKS 

Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose us to potential liabilities, increased costs, and other adverse effects. 

We are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations, many of which are complex, frequently changing, and subject to varying interpretations. These laws and regulations cover a variety of subjects, including advertising, anti&#8211;money laundering, antitrust, consumer finance, environmental, climate-related, health and safety, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, foreign ownership and investment, human rights, labor and employment, cybersecurity, data privacy, encryption, and telecommunications. Changes to existing laws and regulations, or changes to how they are interpreted, or the implementation of new, more stringent laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business by increasing compliance costs, limiting our ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to our business practices, or otherwise making our products and services less attractive to customers. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties. 

In addition, we must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all applicable foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, regardless of whether those practices are culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil sanctions and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.

John Deere may face risks associated with international, national, and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies and government farm programs and policies which could significantly impair John Deere&#8217;s profitability and growth prospects. As our volume of Receivables and Leases is largely dependent upon the level of retail sales and leases of John Deere products, these regulatory drivers could also negatively impact our profitability and growth prospects. 

International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of John Deere&#8217;s products, services, and technology, or those of its customers, or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, could harm John Deere&#8217;s global business. John Deere is subject to various regulatory risks including, but not limited to, the following: 

##TABLE_START &#9679; Restricted access to global markets could impair John Deere&#8217;s ability to export goods and services from its various manufacturing locations around the world and could limit the ability to access raw materials and high-quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Trade restrictions, negotiation of new trade agreements, non-tariff trade barriers, local content requirements, and imposition of new or retaliatory tariffs against certain countries or covering certain products, including developments in U.S.-China trade relations, have limited, and could continue to limit, John Deere&#8217;s ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets. These trade restrictions, and changes in, or uncertainty surrounding global trade policies, may affect John Deere&#8217;s competitive position. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact John Deere&#8217;s future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices, or those limiting the export or import of commodities could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. John Deere&#8217;s agricultural equipment sales could be harmed by such policies because farm income influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. ##TABLE_END##TABLE_START &#9679; Changes in government farm programs and policies can influence demand for agricultural equipment as well as create unequal competition for multinational companies relative to domestic companies. ##TABLE_END 

Governmental actions designed to address climate change based on the emergence of new technologies and business models in connection with the transition to a lower-carbon economy could adversely affect John Deere and its customers. 

There is global scientific consensus that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions continue to alter the composition of Earth&#8217;s atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue to affect the global climate. These considerations have led to new international, national, regional, and local legislative and regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including us and John Deere, are continuing to look for ways to reduce GHG emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources or the imposition of carbon pricing mechanisms could result in additional costs to us and John Deere in the form of taxes or emission allowances, required facilities improvements, research and development investments, and increased energy costs. These results would increase John Deere&#8217;s and our operating costs through higher utility, transportation, and materials cost and could prevent John Deere from selling products into certain markets. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also affect customer operations, including their ability to repay their loans to us, as well as demand for John Deere equipment. 

Regulators in Europe and the U.S. have also focused efforts on increasing disclosures by companies related to climate change and mitigation efforts. These disclosure rules increase compliance burdens and associated regulatory costs. Further, we are subject to additional international and national regulations relating to climate and environmental risk, which are continually evolving and could affect the financing operations and climate-risk processes developed by us. 

Legal proceedings and disputes could harm our business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. 

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks around the world. We face risks of exposure to various types of claims, lawsuits, and government inquiries or investigations, the most prevalent of which relate to retail credit matters. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm our business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. The defense of lawsuits and government inquiries or investigations has resulted and may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management&#8217;s time and attention away from business operations. Such legal proceedings may also affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments exceeding our reserves.

